
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 66, Issue 2, pages 95-196. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:66+issue:2+year:1970&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "On the Banks of the Wabash": A Musical Whodunit
            
                    Richard W. Dowell
                    ∗
                
            In 1940, when Lewis Gannett, New York Herald Tribune reviewer of William E.
                    Wilson's The Wabash,
               1 innocently repeated the
                    author's assertion that Theodore Dreiser, not Paul Dresser, had written the first verse and
                    chorus of Indiana's state song, "On the Banks of the Wabash,"2 he unleashed a torrent of angry protests from Hoosiers and non-Hoosiers alike.
                    Some suspected no more than a case of confusion or misspelling; others denounced the heresy as an
                    affront to Indiana history. One Washington, D.C., reader fired a telegram to the Herald
                        Tribune, asserting sarcastically that if Wilson's statement were true, Hoosiers
                    would have to revise and restudy their history, and Terre Hauteans would have to rename their
                    bridge. It seemed—as another irate reader confidently stated—that
                    "everyone" knew that the composer was Paul Dresser, not his younger brother
                    Theodore Dreiser, everyone except perhaps Wilson and the beleaguered reviewer.3
            
            Caught without a ready reply, the Herald Tribune contacted Wilson's
                    publisher, who in turn wired him. The return wire stated succinctly: "See
                    Dreiser's ‘My Brother Paul,’ in Twelve
                        Men."
               4 This was done, and Dreiser's claim to being
                    the composer of the song's lyrics was reproduced in full for the skeptical Herald Tribune readers. The vindicated Gannett then concluded triumphantly with the
                    suggestion that "Hoosier history and tradition, and some of the reference books do need
                        revision."5
            
            Such a revision, however, is more easily suggested than accomplished, for when one begins to look
                    closely into the history of "On the Banks of the Wabash," the confusion is
                    compounded. Even after the obviously apocryphal accounts are dismissed, many conflicting stories
                    remain.
            As previously noted, Dreiser in "My Brother Paul" from Twelve Men
                    and later in the introduction to The Songs of Paul Dresser
               6
                    
                  
                     ∗ Richard W. Dowell is associate professor of English,
                            Indiana State Univer sity, Terre Haute.
                  
                     1 William E. Wilson, The Wabash (New York, 1940).
                  
                     2 "On the Banks of the Wabash" was published by
                            Howley, Haviland & Com pany of New York in July, 1897, and dedicated to Mary E.
                            South, a fourteen year old Terre Haute girl whom Dresser had never met. On March 14, 1913,
                            it was adopted as Indiana's official state song. Indiana, Laws
                            (1913), 693.
                  
                     3 Lewis Gannett, "Books and Things," New York Herald Tribune, February 25, 1940.
                  
                     4 Theodore Dreiser, "My Brother Paul," Twelve Men (New York, 1919), 76-101.
                  
                     5 Gannett, "Books and Things."
                  
                     6 Theodore Dreiser, "Concerning the Author of These
                            Songs," The songs Of Paul Dresser (New York, 1927). viii-ix. This
                            account appears to be primarily an editing of the account in "My Brother
                            Paul." See also Theodore Dreiser, A Hoosier Holiday (New York,
                            1916), 350.
               
                    
                    
                  THEODORE DRESSER 1894
               
                    
                  PAUL DRESSER
                  
                  Located in the Flanagan Manuscripts, Lilly Library, Indiana University. Courtesy
                            Lilly Library.
               
                     claimed that the first verse and chorus were essentially his. As
                    he recalled the situation in "My Brother Paul," the song was written on a Sunday
                    morning in the summer of 1896.7 At that time Dreiser was employed by
                    Paul's publishing firm, Howley, Haviland & Company, to edit Ev'ry Month, a trade journal designed to plug their latest songs. The magazine
                    normally contained some poetry, short fiction, feature articles, and a column of philosophical
                    ramblings by Dreiser himself;8 but its primary function was to display and
                    circulate the sheet music of the firm's favorites.
            According to Dreiser's version of the song's origin, he had gone to the office with
                    Paul that Sunday to do some work. Once there, Paul began to pick meditatively at the piano.
            " ‘What do you suppose would make a good song thwe days?’ "
                    mused Paul. " ‘Why don't you give me an idea for one once in a while,
                    sport?’"
            At first Dreiser responded somewhat sarcastically, but then,. at Paul's urging, he began to
                    take a condescending interest in the idea. " ‘Why don't you write
                    something about a State or a river?’ "he finally asked."
                    ‘"Look at "My Old Kentucky Home," "Dixie,"
                    "Old Black Joe"—why don't you do something like that,
                    something that suggests a part of America? People like that. Take Indiana—what's
                    the matter with it—the Wabash River? It's as good as any other river, and you
                    were "raised" beside it.’ "
            Paul, according to Dreiser's account, was immediately enthusiastic about the suggestion.
                    " ‘That's not a bad idea,’ " he responded,
                    " ‘but how would you go about it? Why don't you write the words and let
                    me put the music to them? We'll do it together!’ "
            As Dreiser continued his reminiscence, 
                        After a little urging … I took a piece of paper and after meditating a while
                            scribbled in the most tentative manner imaginable the first verse and chorus Of that song
                            almost as it was published. I think one or two lines were too long or didn't rhyme,
                            but eventually either he or I hammered them into shape, but before that I rather
                            shamefacedly turned them over to him, for somehow I was convinced that this work was not for
                            me and that I was rather loftily and cynically attempting what my good brother would do in
                            all faith and feeling.
                        He read it, insisted that it was fine and that I should do a second verse, something with a
                            story in it, a girl perhaps—a task which I solemnly rejected.
                        "No, you put it in. It's yours. I'm through."9
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     7 Dreiser, "MY Brother Paul," 99: Dreiser,
                            "Concerning the Author of These Songs," viii. In "My Brother
                            Paul" Dreiser parenthetically questioned the accuracy of this date; in
                            "Concerning the Author of These Songs" he did not.
                  
                     8 No complete file of Ev'ry Month has been
                            collected. The University of Pennsylvania has eleven issues, September, 1896-July, 1897, on
                            film.
                  
                     9 Dreiser, "My Brother Paul," 100-101.
               
                     Some time later, according to Dreiser's account, he
                    left Howley, Haviland & Company to become a free lance magazine feature writer and paid
                    little attention to Paul and his affairs. Then, during the spring of 1897, he was roused from his
                    bed one "warm, delicious" nighk by a quartette passing below his window.
                    "I jumped up," he recalled. "They were my words! It was Paul's
                    song! He had another ‘hit’ then—‘On the Banks of the
                    Wabash.’ "10
            
            For six years Dreiser watched the song become a national favorite and a huge commercial success while
                    he sank gradually into poverty. At first his free lancing had proved profitable, but then Sister Carrie was branded immoral, making Dreiser an untouchable among the leading
                        periodicals.11 The final result was emotional coblapse and financial
                    disaster. In 1903, when Dreiser was at his lowest ebb, Paul reappeared, prosperous and amiable, as
                    he so often did at times of crisis in the Dreiser family. Theodore tried to spurn him, as he had
                    done five years before,12 but this time Paul insisted on providing financial
                    assistance: " ‘I owe you half of "On the Banks," and you know
                        it.’"13 According to Dreiser's version, then,
                    Paul fully acknowledged and tried to reward Theodore's contribution to the song's
                    composition.
            As Gannett of the Herald Tribune discovered, however, Dreiser's claim has
                    not been widely accepted. Music historians typically mention it but ultimately conclude that words
                    and music were by Dresser.14 Likewise, Dreiser's authorship has not
                    been popularly received by many Hoosiers, particularly Terre Hauteans, to whom Dresser's
                    sentimental attachment to "the home place" has been more appealing than
                    Dreiser's brooding cynicism and condescension.15 In 1924, for example,
                    Max Ehrmann, Terre Haute poet and scholar, wrote the official biography of Dresser for the Paul
                    Dresser Memorial Association.16 In preparation for this work, he visited Dreiser
                    to collect facts 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 101.
                  
                     11 Vrest Orton, Dreiserana: A Book About His Books
                            (New York, 1929), 15-16.
                  
                     12 Dreiser narrates a meeting on Broadway between Paul and himself
                            shortly after the publication of the song. At that time, Paul allegedly acknowledged his
                            debt to Dreiser and offered a part of the royalties, but Dreiser spurned the offer. Dreiser,
                            "My Brother Paul," 102.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 104.
                  
                     14 See David Ewen, American Popular songs (New York,
                            1966), 299-300; also Sigmund Spaeth, A Histoy of Popular Music in America
                            (New York, 1948), 276-78.
                  
                     15 As an example of Terre Haute's devotion to Paul Dresser,
                            see Curt Bridwell, "Paul Dresser, City's Loved Singer, And Romantic
                            Career," Terre Haute star, February 25, 1940; also "Paul
                            Dresser, the Singer, One of Terre Haute's Traditions," Terre Haute Tribune, January 30, 1939.
                  
                     16 Max Ehrmann, Paul Dresser: Composer of "On
                                the Banks of the Wabash" ([Terre Haute], 1924). This sixteen page pamphlet
                            (3"x6") was apparently part of a fund raising campaign for a Dresser
                            Memorial. It is undocumented and tends to romanticize, doubtlessly perpetuating many of the
                            inaccuracies about "On the Banks of the Wabash."
               
                     about Paul's life and came away disturbed by the
                    novelist's lack of compassion for individuals. "I cannot conceive any personal
                    devotion to Dreiser," he later wrote. "By appointment, we spent a few days
                    together in Washington, where he gave me some material on his brother Paul of whose life I afterward
                    wrote a sketch. He seemed ill, parched, neurotic, by turns timid and arrogant—a pitiable
                        figure."17 In the biography, Ehrmann refused to confirm
                    Dreiser's claim to the lyrics. He accepted 1896 as the date and agreed that "On
                    the Banks of the Wabash" had its genesis in the Howley, Haviland & Company office,
                    but he remained quite noncommittal about Dreiser's specific contribution. Ehrmann recorded
                    only that "There was some conversation between the two brothers; and Paul finally decided
                    to write a river song, a Wabash River song, ‘On the Banks of the Wabash.’
                    … Together on this balmy summer Sunday morning they toyed with words, tender loving words
                    of that river of Paul's childhood."18
            
            Having thus evaded the question of the lyrics, Ehrmann shifted the emphasis to the time and location
                    of the final composition of the music, which he placed at West Baden, Indiana, "some weeks
                        later."19 According to Ehrmann's rather romantic version,
                    Dresser had been in poor health and was making his annual visit to West Baden Mineral Springs for
                    rest and recreation. One evening in a mood of nostalgia, he wandered into the community theatre,
                    walked down the dusky aisle, and took his seat at the piano. "And there in the deepening
                    shadows of falling night, alone, and in the beloved state of his birth, his mind tender with
                    memories of the river of his childhood, he beat out his soul upon the piano: he found his
                        melody."20
            
            This account is consistent with and perhaps stimulated by Dreiser's description of
                    Paul's habits of composition. Dreiser in "My Brother Paul" recalled that
                    his brother did not work rapidly or in flashes of inspiration; rather, he carried ideas for songs
                    around with him, 
                        constantly attempting to work them out of himself, not quickly but slowly, brooding as it
                            were over the piano wherever he might find one and could have a little solitude, at times on
                            the organ (his favorite instrument), improvising various sad or wistful strains, some of
                            which he jotted down, others of which, having mastered. he strove to fit words to
                            … He seemed to have a peculiar fondness for the twilight hour, and at this time
                            might thrum over one strain and another until over some particular one, a new song usually,
                            he would be in tears!21
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     17 Bertha K. Ehrmann, Max Ehrmann: A Poet's
                                Ltife (Boston, 1951), 38.
                  
                     18 Ehrmann, Paul Dresser, 11.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 11-12.
                  
                            20
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     21 Dreiser, "My Brother Paul," 96-97.
               
                     It should be noted that while this description supports
                    Ehrmann's version of the song's composition, it tends to challenge
                    Dreiser's own claim that "On the Banks of the Wabaah" was completed,
                    words and music, in a single sitting.22
            
            Eventually Ehrmann's account was enlarged upon, and West Baden was honored not only as the
                    site of composition but also as the place where "On the Banks of the
                        Wabash" was first performed. A writer for the Terre Haute Star
                    recorded in 1936 that Dresser, having just finished the music, taught the words to a Negro friend,
                    George Hughes, who then introduced the song at a public concert in West Baden the following
                        night.23
            
            West Baden, however, is not the only Indiana health resort to claim the honor of being the site of
                    the song's composition. Mudlavia Sanitarium, outside Attica, Indiana, another recreational
                    area for Dresser in the 1890s, is also a candidate. Because of Dresser's frequent and
                    sometimes extended visits to Mudlavia at the height of the song's popularity, the story has
                    developed that he composed "On the Banks of the Wabash" on the sanitarium piano,
                    which is currently housed in the Tippecanoe County Museum, Lafayette, Indiana, and designated as the
                    instrument on which the state song was written.
            Legend has also given Terre Haute a small share in the song's creation. The daughter of
                    Jacob Breinig, conductor of the Terre Haute orchestra for forty years, told an interviewer in 1940
                    that she could remember Dresser's bringing the newly completed song to her father for
                    orchestration. After Paul had hummed the melody, she recalled, her father wrote down the notes and
                    then orchestrated it for a band.24 She did not attempt to date this incident.
            Quite a different version of the song's composition and orchestration has been left by Max
                    Hoffman, orchestrator for Witmark's Publishing Company in the 1890s. Contradicting
                    Dreiser's and Ehrmann's accounts, Hoffman claimed that the lyrics were written by
                    Dresser in Chicago after the music had been composed. Hoffman, Paul's Chicago arranger at
                    that time, recalled being summoned to the Auditorium Hotel one summer evening to help complete
                    "On the Banks of the Wabash." During the course of that evening, he played the
                    melody over and over on a folding camp organ, while Paul labored with the lyrics. As Hoffman
                    narrated the incident: 
                        "It was summer; all the windows were open and Paul was mulling over a melody that
                            was practically in finished form. But he did not have the words. SO he had 
                        
                           22 Theodore Dreiser, "The Birth and Growth of a
                                    Popular Song," Metropolitan. Magazine, Vol. VIII
                                    (November, 1898), 498.
                        
                           23 Curt Bridwell. "Dresser Memorial Plans Recall
                                    Bard's Early Life," Terre Haute Star. October
                                    27, 1936.
                        
                           24 "Recall Paul Dresser as Minstrel Show
                                    Star," Terre Haute Star, April 22, 1940.
                     
                             me play the full chorus over and over again for at
                            least two or three hours, while he was writing down words, changing a line here and a phrase
                            there until at last the lyric suited him. He had a dummy refrain, which he was studying; but
                            by the time he finished what he was writing down to my playing it was an altogether
                            different lyric.
                        "When Paul came to the line ‘Through the sycamores the candlelights were
                            gleaming,’ I was tremendously impressed. It struck me, at once, as one of the
                            most poetic inspirations I had ever heard.
                        "I have always felt that Paul got the idea from glancing out of the window now and
                            again as he wrote, and seeing the lights glimmering out on Lake Michigan. We spent many
                            hours together that evening, and when Paul finished he asked me to make a piano part for
                            publication at the earliest moment. I happened to have some music paper with me, and I wrote
                            one right out, on the spot. This I mailed to Pat Howley, one of Dresser's partners,
                            sending it to the New York office at Thirty-second Street and Broadway At paul's
                            request I enclosed my bill
                        "This piano part contained the lyric as Paul (and no one else) wrote it that night
                            in my presence. The song was published precisely as I arranged it. They did not send proofs
                            for me to read; the proofs were read in New York, to save time. During the whole evening we
                            spent together, Paul made no mention of anyone's having helped him with the
                                song."25
                  
                     Typically, music historians have accepted Hoffman's account as the most reliable
                        version.26
            
            A further question surrounding the composition of "On the Banks of the Wabash"
                    concerns the identity of "Mary" in the second verse, the one Dreiser did not
                    claim. The lyrics of that verse are as follows: 
                        Many years have passed since I strolled by the river, Arm in arm with
                            sweetheart Mary by my side. It was there I tried to tell her that I loved her, It was there
                            I begged of her to be my bride. Long years have passed since I strolled thro' the
                            churchyard, She's sleeping there, my angel Mary dear. I loved her but she thought I
                            didn't mean it, Still I'd give my future were she only here27
                  
                     According to Vigo County historian Dorothy Clark, a local legend is that Dresser once
                    courted a Terre Haute girl named Mary O'Brien. Her father, however, disapproved of
                    Paul's ambition to become an actor and thus forbad the relationship; so Paul left Terre
                    Haute to pursue his career. Soon after, in 1879, Mary died.28 It is, of course,
                    a tempting speculation that the song was recalling this blighted romance; however, Dresser chose to
                    deny that such was the case. During a visit to Terre Haute in 1898, Dresser told a reporter that the
                        
                  
                     25 Isadore Witmark and Issac Goldberg, Story of the House
                                of Witmark: From Ragtime to Swingtime (New York, 1939), 170-71.
                  
                     26 See, for example, David Ewen, The Life and Death of
                                Tin Pan Alley (New York, 1964), 43-44; Ewen, American Popular
                            gongs, 299-300; Spaeth, A History of Popular Music in America, 279.
                  
                     27
                            The songs of Paul Dresser, 72.
                  
                     28 Conversation with Mrs. Dorothy Clark, Vigo County historian and
                            curator of the Vigo County Museum, January 25, 1970.
               
                     second verse contained an allusion " ‘to a
                    mystical "Mary" but this personage was fictitious in the extreme at that time and
                    was written "Mary" merely for rhythmical purposes.’29
            
            The "Mary" to whom the song was dedicated was Mary E. South, at that time a
                    fourteen year old Terre Haute girl who had not met the composer. As Dresser told the story in 1898,
                    his firm was in the process of printing copies of "On the Banks of the Wabash"
                    when a visitor from Terre Haute, Dr. Thomas W. Moorhead, arrived at the New York office. After
                    reading the new song to his guest, Paul asked, "‘Now, who in thunder is this
                    unknown Mary to be to whom I have made allusion?’" For a few moments both men
                    sat puffing on their cigars; then Moorhead suggested the dedication be to Miss South, who he claimed
                    was both pretty and musically talented. Being already acquainted with the girl's father,
                    Colonel Ellis E. South, Paul seized upon the idea and made the necessary arrangements.30 A few days later, July 13, 1897, Dresser wrote Moorhead and enclosed some sheet music
                    of "On the Banks of the Wabash" for Miss South.31 She
                    responded, expressing her appreciation and beginning a correspondence that lasted until
                    Dresser's death in 1906.
            The Mary E. South-Paul Dresser correspondence, much of which is the property of the Lilly Library at
                    Indiana University, is a valuable aid in distinguishing fact from fiction, particularly in regard to
                    Dreiser's claim to the lyrics. In one letter, for example, she asked specifically if
                    Dresser had written the words as well as the music. Dresser answered: "As to whether I
                    wrote the words to ‘On the Banks of the Wabash,’ I definitely did, as I do to
                    all my songs and always have." He went on to say that Theodore had suggested the Wabash
                    River as a subject, but the actual composition did not begin until Paul "was back in
                    Indiana a month later."32 This statement to Miss South is generally
                    consistent with Paul's comments to the Terre Haute press in April, 1898, when he claimed
                    that he was a one man song-writing outfit: "I write the words for all my songs, dictate the
                    circumstances and stage settings for their public introductions, write my own ads, and sometimes
                    sing my own songs. Now what do you think 
                  
                     29 "Talk with Dresser," Terre Haute Tribune, April 19, 1898.
                  
                            30
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     31 Paul Dresser to Thomas W. Moorhead, July 13, 1897, Dresser
                            Manuscripts (Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana). This letter is
                            included in the Dresser-Mary E. South correspondence, most of which is the property of the
                            Lilly Library. Miss South did not include some of the more personal letters: those have not
                            been located since her death in November, 1968, and are presumed to have been destroyed.
                  
                     32 A taped interview between Mary E. South and Mrs. Anna Libbert, a
                            Terre Haute elementary school teacher. Mrs. Libbert made the tape in June, 1963, for use in
                            her classes; a copy is on file at the Wabash Valley Supplementary Education Center, Terre
                            Haute, Indiana.
               
                     of that for a monopoly."33 He went
                    on to say in the interview that at Chicago in May of 1897 he had written "On the Banks of
                    the Wabash" in an hour.34 Apparently, Dresser never abandoned this
                    position that he, and he alone, was the author of the song, for after Paul's death, fellow
                    composer Charles K. Harris recalled Dresser's telling him that he had never succeeded in
                    putting music to the lyrics of another, though he had tried on numerous occasions.35 Paul's consistent refusal to acknowledge publicly any indebtedness poses a serious
                    challenge to Dreiser's claim, for if Paul was as open and generous as all reports indicate,
                    including "My Brother Paul,"36 it is difficult to believe that
                    he would deny his struggling younger brother the recognition he deserved and obviously needed.
            Also adding to the doubts about Dreiser's collaboration is the fact that he apparently did
                    not make a public claim to the lyrics until after Paul's death.37
                    Dreiser wrote of the song's composition as early as 1898, when he did a feature article
                    called the "Birth and Growth of a Popular Song" for Metropolitan
                        Magazine. At this time, he noted that "On the Banks of the Wabash" was
                    well on its way to selling over half a million copies and would bring its author thousands of
                    dollars. For aspiring songwriters, he had the following encouragement: 
                        [Songwriting] looks easy, and the truth is, it really is easy for the person who has the
                            popular-song vein in him. I know absolutely whereof I speak when I say that the words of
                            "On the Banks of the Wabash" were written in less than an hour of an April
                            Sunday afternoon, and that the music did not require a much longer period. The whole deed
                            was pleasurable and easy, while the reward was proportionately great.38
                  
                     It might be noted that "summer" in the later versions was
                    "April" in this 1898 account and that "morning" wa~
                    "afternoon." More significant, however, Dreiser in this early article made no
                    reference to his personal participation and indicated no pique about his not sharing in the
                    spoils-an amazing objectivity for a coauthor, particularly a coauthor who at that very time was
                    struggling to save enough money to marry; and in view of Dreiser's later controversies with
                    publishers 
                  
                     33 "Talk with Dresser."
                  
                     34 "Paul Dresser's Songs," Chicago Record. April 28, 1898.
                  
                     35 Mique O'Brien, "New York Papers Aid Dresser
                            Memorial," Terre Haute Tribune, June 29, 1923.
                  
                     36 Dreiser wrote of Paul: "Some people are so successful, and
                            yet you know their success is purely selfish—exclusive, not inclusive; they never
                            permit you to share in their lives. Not so my good brother. He was generous to the point of
                            self-destruction, and that is literally true." Dreiser, "My Brother
                            Paul," 79.
                  
                     37 In a letter dated May 15, 1898, Dreiser boasted to his fiancee,
                            Miss Sara Osborne White, that he was the composer of the song's lyrics:
                            "Yes, dearie, I wrote the words as I said of On the Banks of the Wabash."
                            Ellen Moers. Two Dreisers (New York, 1969), 95.
                  
                     38 Dreiser, "The Birth and Growth of a Popular
                            Song," 498.
               
                     over royalties, such equanimity becomes more amazing.39
            
            In 1909,40 three years after Paul's death, Dreiser wrote "My
                    Brother Paul," this time making the previously mentioned claim to being the author of the
                    first verse and chorus. Many facts in this sketch, however, cannot bear close scrutiny. For example,
                    Paul was thirteen years older than Theodore, not fifteen, as the sketch stated; Paul's
                    death occurred on January 30, 1906, not in "late November"; and Paul was
                    forty-seven when he died, not fifty-four.41 More apropos to the composition of
                    "On the Banks of the Wabash," Dreiser's placing the song's
                    genesis on a summer Sunday morning in 1896 was also seemingly inaccurate. As noted above, his 1898
                    account placed the event on a Sunday afternoon in April, not a Sunday morning in summer, and since
                    Paul indicated that the song was completed in May, one month after Dreiser's suggestion of
                    the Wabash as a topic, April seems the logical choice. Also, the song was published in July, 1897,
                    and Dreiser left Howley, Haviland & Company in September, 1897, not in the fall of 1896, as
                    the sketch suggested. Thus, one can assume that 1897, not 1896, was the year of the
                    song's’ birth. Finally, since the song was first popular in the fall of 1897, it
                    is quite improbable that Dreiser heard it for the first time on a "warm,
                    delicious" spring night.
            As Dreiser was notoriously careless with dates and made no effort to conceal this fact, these
                    inaccuracies should not surprise a reader nor perhaps greatly disturb him; however, there are more
                    serious inconsistencies. Indeed, one part of Dreiser's account is so questionable that it
                    creates some doubt as to the authenticity of the entire sketch. This question involves
                    Dreiser's assertion that he first heard the song when he was roused from his bed by a
                    quartette singing under his window some months after he left Howley, Haviland & Company. The
                    fact is that Dreiser was still employed by that firm when the song was published in July, 1897, and
                    would remain so for three more months, by which time "On the Banks of the Wabash"
                    was well on its way to becoming a hit. Since the purpose of Dreiser's job as editor of Ev'ry Month was to plug the company's songs, it seem quite
                    unlikely that he could remain ignorant of one of their most 
                  
                     39 Dreiser's throwing hot coffee in the face of publisher
                            Horace Liveright during contractual talks over the movie rights to An American
                                Tragedy was the most dramatic of the royalty disputes, but there were many. See,
                            for example, W. A. Swanberg, Dreiser (New York, 1965), 160-64, 250,
                            305-308, 349-50.
                  
                     40 Robert Elias dates "My Brother Paul" in 1909,
                            though Twelve Men was not published until 1919. Theodore
                                Dreiser: Apostle of Nature (New York, 1949), 146.
                  
                     41 Dreiser, "My Brother Paul," 77, 108, 105. The
                            date of Paul's birth is recorded as April 22, 1858. in the files of St.
                            Joseph's Catholic Church, Terre Haute, Indiana; his death was reported to be
                            January 30, 1906, by the New York Herald, January 31. 1906.
               
                     spectacular successes, particularly one that he had been
                    personally involved in.42
            
            In 1927, eighteen years after writing "My Brother Paul," Dreiser retold the story
                    of his collaboration in the introduction to The Songs of Paul Dresser. As in the
                    first telling, Dreiser insisted that he was the author of the first verse and chorus; however, one
                    interesting revision was made. In this later version, he removed all mention of his cynicism and
                    condescension toward Paul and the song. No longer did he include his responding "almost
                    contemptuously" to Paul's plea for a suggestion, nor did he recall
                    "loftily and cynically attempting" to write the words. Nostalgia was the keynote
                    of the retelling, as if the years had wiped away the hostility Dreiser had felt toward his brother
                    in the spring of 1897.
            Such hostility, however, did exist. By April, 1897, Dreiser had become quite dissatisfied with his
                    position in the firm. The aims and achievements of Paul and his associates seemed trivial and
                    disgusting, always geared to the pedestrian tastes of the masses. W. A. Swanberg describes
                    Dreiser's mood during the months in question as follows: 
                        He detested the hypocrisies of convention, the taste of the masses for sweet nothings, the
                            one-track Howley-Haviland aim to sell more music. The firm regarded the magazine solely as a
                            promotion for its songs, whereas he thought the songs trivial, gagged at much of the
                            editorial material he was forced to print and yearned for freedom to print work he could
                            respect.
                        At times he was so angry at (or jealous of) Paul that he would scarcely speak to him.43
                  
                    
            
            This antagonism between the two brothers was clearly illustrated in the April, 1897, issue of Ev'ry Month, the month in which the collaboration should logically have
                    taken place. In this issue, Dreiser published a biting satire on Paul and other writers of musical
                    comedy. This satire was written by Arthur Henry, a friend who shared Dreiser's contempt for
                    the songwriting business and had been encouraging him to leave Howley, Haviland &
                        Company.44 Complete with a picture of Paul smashing up furniture on stage in
                    a recent farce, the article lampooned such "delicate humor" and cynically advised
                    writers of musical comedy to "Above all things avoid anything subtle. Your sarcasm must
                    have teeth. Rapier thrusts at social or political conditions are lost. Use a club, and be sure and
                    land on the 
                  
                     42 The August and September, 1897, issues of Ev'ry Month are not available among the Dreiser papers at the University
                            of Pennsylvania.
                  
                     43 Swanberg, Dreiser, 73-74.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 74.
               
                     old wounds."45 Numerous pratfalls,
                    an abundance of broken furniture, and a wealth of maudlin dialogue or songs, the satire concluded,
                    were the sure keys to success. Clearly, this burlesque of Paul's techniques in his own
                    trade magazine must have made the office a rather chilly spot during the spring of
                    1897—hardly a setting for nostalgic memories and thoughtful cooperation.
            Thus, considering Paul's refusal to acknowledge Dreiser's aid with the lyrics, the
                    suspicious delay and obvious inconsistencies and inaccuracies of Dreiser's accounts, the
                    apparent hostilities in the spring of 1897, the alternate version left by Max Hoffman, and
                    Dreiser's general tendency toward autobiographical fabrication,46 one
                    can perhaps conclude that Theodore's role in "On the Banks of the Wabash"
                    was somewhat less than he eventually pictured it to be. All reports agree that he had some part in
                    Paul's writing a Wabash River song; perhaps he even jotted down a few facetiously
                    sentimental lines. But it is difficult to believe that Paul would publish those lyrics just as
                    Theodore had written them and not give his om brother credit, particularly when that brother was
                    still a member of the publishing firm, or that Dreiser would accept that slight with the equanimity
                    indicated by the "Birth and Growth of a Popular Song" in 1898. It should also be
                    noted that Dreiser's authorship remained unrecognized on Tin Pan Alley, for in 1923
                    composer Harris praised Paul Dresser as a "complete" songwriter: 
                        "Nobody ever tampered with his music or his lyrics. They couldn't. Nobody
                            could touch any theme that was his … He couldn't write a lyric to
                            anybody else's music; neither could he set music to any other one's lyric,
                            as he often told me. Because the combination would not fit, although he once said:
                            ‘I tried it several times, Charley.’"47
                  
                     Had it been widely accepted that Dresser's most successful song was a product of
                    collaboration, this compliment would hardly have been offered.
            Concerning West Baden's part in the song's history, most evidence indicates that
                    Dresser worked on the composition there in May, 1897, perhaps bringing the music near its fiml form.
                    Paul was frequently in Chicago during these years to manage the branch office and usually took time
                    out to relax at one of Indiana's health resorts. 
                  
                     45 Arthur Henry, "It Is to Laugh: A Little Talk on How to
                            Write a Comic Opera," Ev'ry Month, III (April, 1897),
                            15.
                  
                     46 Dreiser's penchant for autobiographical fabrication is
                            perhaps best illustrated in Dawn (New York, 1931). His sisters were
                            furious at his exaggerated accounts of their sexual adventures; "Teddy,"
                            they insisted, "just invented all those fantastic stories." Swanberg, Dreiser, 375. Dreiser's brother Rome was also chagrined by the
                            account of his own death, brought on, according to Dreiser, by a fit of alcoholism in a
                            Clark Street flophouse. Dreiser, A Hoosier Holiday, 393. In actuality,
                            Rome did not die until 1940.
                  
                     47 O'Brien. "New York Papers Aid Dresser
                            Memorial."
               
                     It is totally consistent with his sentimental nature that one
                    of these visits to his home state inspired him to resume work on the nostalgic ballad. Both Ehrmann
                    and Mary South48 agree that West Baden was the site, and there is no reliable
                    evidence to challenge that claim. However, Hoffman's account and Dresser's own
                    statement that the song was written in Chicago indicate that the words probably were not completed
                    until later.
            The claim that West Baden was also the scene of the song's inaugural performance is
                    apparently untrue. As the South letters reveal, the performance on which that assertion was based
                    did not take place until three months after the song's publication, when Paul was again
                    relaxing at the baths. On November 1, 1897, Paul wrote Miss South, telling her of his return to West
                    Baden. In this letter he said nothing about "On the Banks of the Wabash." Four
                    days later he wrote again, this time referring to an entertainment that had taken place the previous
                    evening. Two of Paul's songs, including "On the Banks of the Wabash," had
                    been sung by a Negro waiter—apparently the George Hughes often mentioned in connection
                    with this incident. Paul reported in the letter that the applause had been so enthusiastic that he
                    had at last been forced to rise and speak. Addressing himself to the reference to
                    "mother" in the first verse, the verse Dreiser claimed to have written, Paul
                    defended himself against critics, such as Theodore, who looked upon his music as trivial and
                    excessively sentimental. In the letter Dresser recalled the following comments: "While
                    cynics might refer to the little simple melodies as trash & the words as maudlin sentiment,
                    still to me with apologies to none, the grandes[t] word in English or any other language was
                        Mother."49 Since "On the Banks of the Wabash" had
                    not yet won national acclaim,50 many people in the audience that night were
                    doubtless hearing it for the first time; thus, the story that the song was performed in West Baden
                    the night after its completion easily evolved.
            A more likely prospect is that "On the Banks of the Wabash" was first performed
                    publicly at the Alhambra Theatre in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Harris, reminiscing about his association
                    with Dresser, recalled being in attendance at the song's initial performance. Harris, whose
                    headquarters were in Milwaukee at the time, said that Paul burst into his office excitedly one day
                    and asked him to go hear "On the Banks of the Wabash" given a trial performance.
                    As Harris related the details of the occasion, 
                  
                     48 South-Libbert taped interview.
                  
                     49 Paul Dresser to Mary E. South, November 5, 1897. Dresser
                            Manuscripts.
                  
                     50 In a letter dated September 6, 1897, Dresser told Miss South that
                            slightly better than five thousand copies had been sold, a good beginning but certainly not
                            indicative of national popularity at that point. Ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        "I went down [his office was above the Alhambra Theatre] to the vaudeville show and
                            sat beside him and heard the song for the first time it was ever sung. After the rendition
                            he turned to me and said, ‘Well, Charley, what do you think of it?’ I
                            said: ‘Paul, you've got a sure-fire hit.’ Tears welled in his
                            eyes as he turned to me and said, ‘Do you mean that, Charley?’
                        "I said: ‘From the bottom of my heart I mean it.’ I shook
                            hands with him and we both went out to a telegraph office and he wired his firm:
                            ‘Wabash looks like big hit. Big applause. Get song out immediately.’
                                "51
                  
                     This account seems consistent with that above of arranger Hoffman, who recalled the
                    song's being completed and arranged in Chicago and then mailed to New York ahead of Paul.
                    Though Harris made no attempt to date this incident, Paul's statement that the song was
                    written in May and the July publication date would logically place this performance in June,
                        1897.52
            
            There is little concrete evidence to support Mudlavia's claim to a share in the
                    song's history; however, the circumstances of Paul's visits there do indicate how
                    such a claim might have arisen. As the South letters indicate, Paul was back in Indiana in April,
                    1898, to spend two weeks at the Mudlavia Sanitarium.53 Since his last visit to
                    Indiana "On the Banks of the Wabash" had become a national favorite selling
                    thousands of copies a day.54 Doubtless, it was a chief topic of conversation
                    during his visit, and probably, being the genial person he apparently was, Dresser played the song
                    frequently on the sanitarium piano now preserved in the Tippecanoe County Museum. Thus, for lack of
                    evidence to the contrary, it can perhaps be assumed that Paul's lengthy stay at Mudlavia
                    during the height of the new song's popularity gave rise over the years to the reports that
                    the song was composed there.
            The most reliable information, then, indicates that the history of "On the Banks of the
                    Wabash" began in the office of Howley, Haviland & Company, probably on a Sunday in
                    April, 1897. Dreiser suggested the topic, and the two brothers experimented with a tune and some
                    lyrics, Dreiser cooperating in a facetious mood. Perhaps the "dummy refrain" that
                    Hoffman remembered Paul's referring to in the Chicago hotel was Dreiser's;
                    however, most evidence, including the three month period between April and the July publication,
                    indi- 
                  
                     51 O'Brien, "New York Papers Aid Dresser
                            Memorial."
                  
                     52 Harris was somewhat confused on the chronology of this incident. He
                            recalled that Dresser was performing at Litt's Theatre in Milwaukee when the song
                            was introduced at the Alhambra. Actually, Paul did not perform on the stage after the summer
                            of 1896. Paul Dresser to Mary E. South, August 2, 1897. Dresser Manuscripts.
                  
                     53 During this stay at Mudlavia, Dresser wrote Miss South three
                            letters: April 1, 7, 14, 1898. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     54 Dreiser, "The Birth and Growth of a Popular
                            Song," 497. Paul stated that his royalties from "On the Banks of the
                            Wabash" were in excess of $50,000 by April, 1898. "Paul
                            Dresser's Songs," Chicago Record, April 28, 1898.
               
                     cates that the song, both words and music, was still in
                    embryonic form after that session, and would remain so for about a month. In the meantime, Paul made
                    one of his frequent trips to the branch office in Chicago and then took a short vacation at West
                    Baden, probably in May. There, amid Indiana surroundings, he resumed work on the song and brought
                    the music to near its final form. The words apparently remained somewhat tentative. Then, he
                    returned to Chicago and contacted Hoffman. Hoffman remembered that it was summer weather, and Paul
                    dated the Chicago writing in May; so late May or early June would seem accurate. Together they
                    worked out the rough spots, particularly in regard to the lyrics, Paul apparently revising so
                    extensively that any facetious direction Dreiser might have given was inconsequential. Hoffman then
                    arranged a piano part and mailed a copy to the main office in New York. Paul, however, remained in
                    Chicago to set up a trial performance, ultimately deciding on the Alhambra Theatre in Milwaukee,
                    logically in June. When the results proved encouraging, Paul wired his firm to proceed with
                    publication and soon returned to New York himself. By July 13, 1897, all details had been worked out
                    and the "professional copies" were coming from the presses when the visitor from
                    Terre Haute arrived with the suggestion that Paul dedicate "On the Banks of the
                    Wabash" to Miss South. During the ensuing year Paul made two triumphant trips back to
                    Indiana, first to West Baden in November, 1897, and then to Mudlavia in April, 1898. On both
                    OccZLsions, the new song was doubtless performed and the composer lionized. Then, as the years
                    passed and the popularity of "On the Banks of the Wabash" increased, memories
                    began to fade; incidents began to telescope; those involved began to exaggerate their roles; and
                    slowly facts gave way to legends.
         
         
         
            Curtis R. Burke's Civil War Journal
            Edited by Pamela J. Bennett Contributed by Richard A. Misselhorn∗
            
            This second installment—from July 23, 1863, to July 19, 1864—of Curtis R.
                    Burke's journal of his Civil War years covers the first year of Burke's almost
                    nineteen months as a prisoner of the Federal government after his capture with most of John Hunt
                    Morgan's men at Buffington Island, Ohio, on July 19, 1863. This section covers almost 106
                    pages of the existing journal.
            Boredom, anger, humor, hope, despair—all emotions flash out. But there is a pervading
                    sense of control and certainty which may very well be a natural result of the retrospective
                    preparation of the journal that remains. Burke's choice of events for the record, however,
                    reveals a certain "make do" attitude, which is reinforced by the starkness of his
                    narrative. Burke is only a young man who retains much of his boyishness, but he exemplifies the
                    tenacity and prejudices of his southern heritage. He is a stickler for private rights and yet he can
                    forget in anger to make a sergeant at Camp Morton write down items taken from him. Burke notes much
                    detail about Camps Morton and Douglas, but rarely is there more than sparse description; he reports
                    the war news when it is available, but rarely does he comment upon events.
            Yet with the sparseness of words there is the ability to make memorable some episodes in camp life: a
                    man who sees his two year old daughter for the first time, a tooth extraction, the killing and
                    eating of rats, gold bricking on a work party, the creation of a sumptuous Christmas dinner in the
                    midst of the prison squalor. Such moments add charm to an already valuable document of history and
                    humanity—a document which reveals that humanity at its best and at its worst. Mainly,
                    however, it is the revelation of Burke, a common man.
            
               
                  ∗ Richard A. Misselhorn is professor of oral diagnosis at the
                        Indiana University School of Dentistry, Indianapolis. Dr. Misselhorn owns the existing journal
                        and it is published with his permission. It was erroneously stated in the December, 1969, issue
                        that Mrs. Curtis E. Burke owned the journal.
            
            
            Curtis R. Burke's Journal1
            
            [The Confederate captives, including Burke and his father, go down the Ohio by steamboat and reach
                    Cincinnati on Thursday, July 23. Many friends and relations from Lexington, Kentucky, come alongside
                    the steamers to see the men. However, says Burke, "They were not allowed to come aboard nor
                    stay longer than ten minutes in talking distance" (p. 218). At Cincinnati the prisoners
                    transfer to a train—"About forty prisoners to each box car, and two guards to
                    each door" (p. 218). Burke and another man are cheated of $1 by a
                    "sympathizing friend" in the crowd of observers who agreed to purchase food for
                    them. A guard tells the men that they are going to Camp Morton, Indianapolis, Indiana;2 they reach there on July 23.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Thursday July 23d, 1863 … We arri[v]ed in the depot at Indianapolis about
                                    twelve o'clock at night, where the seventy first Indiana infantry3 awaited us, and they marched us through the brightly lighted
                                    city to Camp Morton about three miles in the country. I thought the city was a very
                                    nice place from what little I saw of it. On arriving in camp Morton a strong guard
                                    was put around us and every man spread down his blanket, if he had me, where he
                                    stood and slept the balance of the night.
                        Friday July 24th, 1863. Weather pleasant. On waking I took a minute survey of our
                                    temporary home. The Camp was in a level 
                              
                                 1 In editing this journal the typescript has been
                                            followed exactly except as here indicated. Dates for the entries in the
                                            typescript are located on the right side of the page and divide the entries;
                                            dates are relocated in the text published here primarily to save space. Only
                                            a few very obvious typing errors have been corrected; otherwise misspellings
                                            have been allowed to remain. Capitalization is also unchanged.
                                            Burke's use of the apostrophe in the possessive is quite erratic;
                                            the typescript is followed without change. Names of people given within
                                            brackets in text are supplied by Burke elsewhere in the journal. Names and
                                            place names supplied or identified from an outside source are given
                                            correctly in notes. Where text has been omitted in the journal published
                                            here, significant events are briefly summarized within brackets. These
                                            summaries include only events which Burke's journal relates. Page
                                            numbers from the typescript are indicated in parentheses when the journal is
                                            quoted in the summaries. A row of spaced periods indicates that entries have
                                            been omitted and that summaries have been judged unnecessary. The consistent
                                            dating readily indicates the total time lapse of both summaries and
                                            omissions. Notes are entirely omitted for various names and events which
                                            could not be adequately identified rather than include merely negative
                                            remarks.
                              
                                 2 Camp Morton, approximately 1.5 miles north of
                                            downtown Indianapolis, was established in April, 1861, to receive the
                                            Indiana volunteers for the Union army. Since 1859 the area had been the
                                            state fairgrounds. In February, 1862, the camp was taken over by the Federal
                                            government for a prison camp. It was used only until August, 1862, when a
                                            general exchange of prisoners took place. Although the camp was in bad
                                            physical condition, it was again designated for Confederate prisoners
                                            beginning in January, 1863, and thereafter as needed. Hattie Lou Winslow and
                                            Joseph R. H. Moore, Camp Morton 1861-1865: Indianapolis Prison
                                                Camp (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIII, No. 3;
                                            Indianapolis, 1940). 227-383.
                              
                                 3 The Seventy-first Regiment of Indiana volunteers was
                                            mustered into the service as infantry on August 18, 1862. After two
                                            engagements in Kentucky the regiment returned to Indianapolis in early 1863,
                                            where it remained until August 26, 1863. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8
                                            vols., Indianapolis, 1865-1869), II, 663.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              MAP OF CAMP MOICTON, 1862, adapted from a map by E. S. Thrall,
                                            Sixtieth Regiment Indiana Volunteers. 1. Entrance. 2. Officer of gate. 3.
                                            Drummers. 4. Barber. 5. Picture gallery. 6. Majors. 7. Chaplain. 8. Steward.
                                            9. Colonel. 10. Magazine. 11. Stable. 12. Wagon master. 13. Gate. 14-16.
                                            Barracks. 17. Commissary. 18. Bakery. 19. Stable. 20. Gate. 21. Commissary.
                                            22-23. Prisoners' tents, shed. 24. Preacher's stand. 25.
                                            Surgeon. 26. Sutler. 27. Picture car. 28. Post office. 29. Barracks. 30.
                                            Doctor. 31. Hospital tent. 32. Receiving hospital. 33. Dispensary. 34.
                                            Prisoners' tent. 36-39. Barracks 1.5.
                              Reproduced from Hettie Lou Winslow and Jospeh R. H. Moore, Camp
                                            Morton 1861. 1865: Indianapolis Prison Camp (Indianapolis: Indiana
                                            Historical Society, 1940).
                           
                                     piece of land with a large ditch or drean
                                    [drain] running th[r]ough it. There was a few scattering trees. Some hospital
                                    buildings stood about the center and headquarters was on the south side of the camp
                                    and fronting on the street. There was five long one story barracks between the ditch
                                    and the high fence on the west, and long one story barracks on the north and east
                                    forming part of the fence on those sides. The guards were quartered in these. There
                                    was a few other buildings scattered through camp. I thought the camp was about four
                                    hundred yards square. We received an army cracker and a small piece of fat meat each
                                    for our breakfast. Then the Yanks commenced taking the prisoners in small squads
                                    through a building and taking everything from them and then passing them to another
                                    part of the camp. The rest of us soon found out what was going on, and we went to
                                    work hiding our money and destroying other things. The guards noticed us and
                                    informed on us. Then Adjutant Roberson4 of the 71st Indiana came
                                    out and made a speech to us, saying that every man that had money taken from him
                                    would get it back in small sums or in checks on the camp sutler store. The
                                    Confederate money he would not take at all, but things that were new that we had
                                    gotten in Indiana or Ohio on Morgan's raid would be taken under the head of
                                    recaptured Federal property, and ended in saying that the guards were instructed to
                                    shoot any person they caught hiding or destroying anything. This made the boys move
                                    about very careful. I had already hid three dollars in green backs in the lining of
                                    my gray jacket and one hundred and sixty dollars in Confederate of my fathers, by
                                    pressing it into a small wad and wrapping thread all over it. I had one dollar and
                                    twenty-five cents in Lincoln scrip loose in my pocket, so I thought I would spend
                                    part of it before it was taken away from me, so I spent seventy-five cents at the
                                    sutler store for pies, cakes, apples, etc. which I divided with my father (Edward D.
                                    Burke who was a sergeant in Morgan's body guards) and my mess. There was
                                    about a dozen basket hucksters hovering around the guard lines, also a one horse
                                    spring wagon load of bread, pies, cakes, cheese, applies, etc. The boys spent their
                                    money freely expecting it to be taken from them if they kept it. When my squads turn
                                    came to be searched we went into the house where five or six Yankee sergeants were
                                    searching the men. If a man had two handkerchiefs the best one was taken. Nearly
                                    every knife that was not able to call chickens was taken regardless of our private
                                    rights. Some of the sergeants kept account of the 
                              
                                 4 Lieutenant Edward J. Robinson was appointed
                                            assistant commissary of prisoners in early July, 1863. He arrived on July 8
                                            amid confusion, which wan heightened by the arrival of Morgan's men
                                            as prisoners. The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                                Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols.,
                                            Washington, 1880-1901), Ser. II, Vol. VI, 196. The eight volumes of Series
                                            II consist of prisoner of war records. The set is cited hereafter as Official Records.
                              
                           
                                     money that they took and the men's
                                    names that they took it from, but others did not thus pocketing the money for their
                                    own benefit as fast as they took it. A sergeant called me to him. My hat, my gray
                                    jacket and my boots were taken off and went through the strictest examination
                                    possible. The sergeant found the three dollars greenback and cut it out of the
                                    lining of my jacket, also the fifty cent bill left in the pocket, but not the
                                    Confederate money tied up in thread. Then he felt my sock feet, shirt, collar and
                                    cuffs and running his hands all over the seams of my pantloons. He told me to put my
                                    things on. The things in my pockets had been emptied out on a bench. He picked out
                                    what he wanted and then told me to put the rest back in my pockets, and I did so. He
                                    kept several things that I had brought from Tennessee. Next my haversack was emptied
                                    out. It contained nothing but my journal and a couple of big ginger cakes. My heart
                                    was in my mouth as he picked up my journal and asked me what it was. I told him that
                                    it was only a journal of camp life that I would like to keep. He said that I might
                                    keep it as it would be interesting some time. I felt greatly relieved. He then told
                                    me that he was done with me, and called up another prisoner, and I skipped on out. I
                                    left in such bad humor that I forgot to make the sergeant take down my name and
                                    amount taken. I passed out another door and joined the crowd that had been searched.
                                    The rest experienced about the same that I did.5 We then crossed
                                    the ditch and were quartered in two of the long one story barracks. They were
                                    without floors. The bunks were only two deep and wide enough for three or four men
                                    to sleep in. We could nearly stand up in them. They were ranged on each side of the
                                    house with the foot slanting a little towards the center of the building leaving a
                                    passage of about six feet in width in the center and running the whole length of the
                                    building. Myself, Henry [Harrison] White, and Lev [Leven P.] Young got a good top
                                    bunk. It being preferable to bottom bunks. The camp was supplied with plenty water.
                                    I,saw six pumps, all the water was hard. We had the privilege of using three of the
                                    pumps. Late in the evening a sutler store opened for our benefit and the prisoners
                                    bought a good many pies, cakes, etc. at high prices. We, Morgan's men were
                                    the only prisoners in camp except a few at the hospital. We were about six hundred
                                        strong.6 I slept well in our hard bunk.
                        
                           
                              5 Morgan's men "were subjected to the
                                        thorough, search which all prisoners had to undergo. This one proved unusually
                                        productive, for spoils of the raid began to appear in little wads of
                                        greenbaeks—$20 extracted from one man's pipe
                                        bowl, $1,100 from another's canteen." Winslow and
                                        Moore, Camp Morton 1861-1865, 322.
                           
                              6 Burke seems to be in error. According to the monthly
                                        report for July, 1863. from Camp Morton there were 111 prisoners in camp; 1,165
                                        were added, presumably from Morgan's Raid. Official
                                            Records, Ser. II, Vol. VIII, 991.
                        
                        
                        [The men settle into the camp drawing daily rations to be cooked with
                                    "scraps of wood" outside. Burke mentions often the hard plank bed
                                    with only one blanket for three men because his comfort was stolen through a fence
                                    while airing on July 27. Some of the men get sutler checks for money confiscated in
                                    the search, but Burke is unable to identify the sergeant who searched him and so
                                    loses his money. On July 29 report of General John H. Morgan's capture is
                                    circulated through the camp.7]
                        Thursday July 30th, 1863. Weather pleasant. David Hickey [or Hicky] and several
                                    others put up work benches to make finder rings on. They use gutta percha buttons
                                    and a fine grade of cannel coal. The balance of the boys spent what time they had
                                    left cooking and eating, in pitching quoits, playing cards, marbles and other games.
                                    I spent most of my leisure time writing in my journal and some letters. Our sutler
                                    got out of bread, and father gave me some money to get some Yank off of guard duty
                                    to buy it for me at the Yankee sutler store, which was on the other side of the
                                    guard line. I asked a guard on his beat to let some one go to his sutler store for
                                    me, and he advised me not to trust my money with anyone loafing around the guard
                                    lines, if I did I would be swindled out of it. I took his advice and returned to my
                                    quarters. We slept uncomfortable.
                        Sunday August 2d, 1863. Weather pleasant. I saw three bodies taken from the dead
                                    house to be buried. The bodies were those of prisoners and were in plain stained
                                    boxes used for the same purpose more than once. I was told that the bodies that came
                                    from the hospital were left in the position in which they died. No attempt to put
                                    the bodies in good shape. There was an average of two deaths per day at the
                                        hospital.8 Parson James A. Orr a private in Smith's
                                    fifth KY.9 cavalry delivered a good sermon to us in the open air
                                    under one of the shade trees. His text was, "Come unto me all ye that are
                                    heavy laden and I will give you rest" Mathew Eleventh chapter and twenty
                                    eight verse. We could hear the city church bells. After supper we retired to our
                                    hard bunks.
                        [Burke reports that all regiments received tin cups on August 5. Quirk's
                                        
                              
                                 7 Morgan surrendered to a captain of the Ohio militia
                                            on July 26, 1863. He and several of his officers were placed in the Ohio
                                            State Penitentiary at Columbus. Morgan escaped with six other men on
                                            November 26-27 and returned to Confederate lines. Basil W. Duke, A History of Morgan's Cavalry (Bloomington,
                                            1960), 457-58, 467, 485-89.
                              
                                 8 The inadequate hospital facilities are discussed by
                                            Winslow and Moore, Camp Morton 1861-1865, 324-32.
                              
                                 9 Colonel Dabney Howard Smith's Fifth
                                            Kentucky Cavalry had joined Morgan in February, 1863, and had participated
                                            in Morgan's Raid into Indiana and Ohio in July, 1863. Duke, A History of Morgan's Cavalry. 359,
                                        448-49.
                           
                                     Scouts have been attached to the Fourteenth
                                    Kentucky Cavalry for roll call purposes.]
                        Thursday August 6th, 1863. Weather pleasant. An order was issued this morning to the
                                    effect that no one would be allowed to write except to father, mother, sister,
                                    brother, or guardian. This order was issued because the mail matter was getting too
                                    large. Too many writing to their sweethearts. Geo. Cunningham of Co. A this regiment
                                    (14th Ky.) was visited by his wife and child, but he was only allowed to talk with
                                    his wife across the guard line. A Yankee handed him his child. A fine girl of only
                                    two summers. It was the first time that he had ever seen it. He took it to the
                                    barracks and let his friends see it. He appeared very proud of it. He then sent it
                                    back and his wife and child returned to the city. The night was rather chilly.
                        [Burke's father receives their first communication from home, and Burke
                                    answers it immediately. Burke reports several fist fights on August 9 over the use
                                    of cooking implements. In order to keep awake at night the guards call out the hour
                                    and often fire their rifles. Comments Burke: "One of these balls came
                                    uncomfortably close to our heads as we lay in our bunk about midnight" (p.
                                    225).]
                        Monday August 10th, 1863. Weather windy. Another lot of prisoners arrived in camp.
                                    Lev Young brought Theadore Meuron of Glenn's Scouts into the mess, making
                                    four in the mess. Some of the Vicksburg infantry prisoners10 put
                                    their names down to take the Yankee oath,11 and were hissed and
                                    hooted at by all of Morgan's men. The Yanks were camped all around the
                                    prison. I mounted the barracks today and saw an infantry regiment on dress parade.
                                    They had a good brass band. Then a six gun battery of six pound brass guns came on
                                    drill and the whole battery fired four or five times. They appeared to be very well
                                    drilled. Then a few companies of cavalry also came out and took their turn at drill.
                        
                           
                              10 The campaign around Vicksburg had been going on since
                                        December, 1862. In May and June, 1863, General Ulysses S. Grant directed several
                                        assaults and finally laid seige to the city. On July 4, 1863, Confederate
                                        General John C. Pemberton surrendered the beseiged city. Mark Mayo Boatner III,
                                            The Civil War Dictionary (New York, 1959), 871-77.
                           
                              11 On December 8, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln offered
                                        pardon by proclamation to rebels who would take and maintain the following oath
                                        of allegiance: " ‘I,— —, do solemnly
                                        swear, in presence of Almighty God, that I will hence forth faithfully support,
                                        protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States and the union of the
                                        States thereunder, and that I will, in like manner, abide by and faithfully
                                        support all acts of Congress passed during the existing rebellion with reference
                                        to slaves, so long and so far as not repealed, modified, or held void by
                                        Congress, or by decision of the Supreme Court, and that I will, in like manner,
                                        abide by and faithfully support all proclamations of the President made during
                                        the existing rebellion having reference to slaves, so long and so far as not
                                        modified or declared void by decision of the Supreme Court. So help me
                                        God.’" Officers, officials, and certain others of the
                                        Confederacy were excluded. Official Records. Ser. II, Vol. VI,
                                        650-82.
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           VIEWS OF CAMP MOBTON, INDIANAPOLIS
                           
                           Reproduced from Holland Thompson. The Photographic History of the
                                        Civil War, Vol. VII (10 vols.: New York: The Review of Reviews Co.. 1911).
                        
                        
                        Tuesday August 11th, 1863. Weather pleasant. We had a better dinner today then usual.
                                    I did most of the cooking. Some officers came in after dinner to find from the
                                    prisoners how the Sutler sold things to us. They said they wished to regulate the
                                    Sutler prices on his goods. The Sutler had been asking exorbitant prices. Several of
                                    the boys made out a list of the prices they had been paying the Sutler, and I
                                    started to give it to the officers, but they crossed the guard line before I reached
                                    them, and the guard would not take it or send it to them. They all seemed to be
                                    quarrelling which should have entire sway in swindling the prisoners, Headquarters
                                    or the Sutler. The Sutler talked of bringing charges against some of the officers
                                    for swindling us out of most of the money, clothing, etc. that was sent to us from
                                    our homes, and the officers tried to turn the Sutler out for selling his goods too
                                    high, but things went on as usual.
                        Thursday August 13th, 1863. Weather pleasant. A new order was issued this morning
                                    that no more money or clothing would be allowed to be received by the prisoners and
                                    all such money and clothing would be sent back by order of Gen. Burnsides.12 The camp express office was piled up with boxes for
                                    prisoners. What became of them I should guest. I spent most of the
                                    day writing in my journal. In the evening's mail I received a letter from
                                    my mother in Lexington, Ky. with five dollars taken out of it at headquarters, and
                                    the following notice written on the blank sheet. "Please direct how to
                                    return the money. John Hansel Lieut. and A. A. D. C."13
                                    I immediately dropped him the necessary directions through the camp postoffice, but
                                    at the same time I was certain that the money would never he sent home. I felt mad
                                    enough to rob a Yank of his last cent if I had half a chance. So far I had never
                                    taken a prisoners money. Two prisoners had a fight in the infantry barracks over a
                                    frying pan and one of them was dangerously cut. The other then hid to try to escape
                                    the expected search by the Yanks.
                        Friday August 14th, 1863. Weather pleasant. After breakfast we were all called out in
                                    line all over the camp and Adjutant Roberson and a prisoner examined us to find out
                                    the man that did the cutting yesterday, but they failed. I had a slight touch of the
                                    toothache for the first time in my life. In the evening we were all called out
                                    again. We were put on the opposite side of the ditch from our barracks and 
                              
                                 12 General Ambrose E. Burnside was commander of the
                                            Army of the Ohio from March 26 to December 12, 1863. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 107.
                              
                                 13 Assistant Aide de Camp.
                           
                                     a guard searched the barracks to see that
                                    everybody was out in line. Then we were marched across a bridge at the lower end of
                                    the ditch single file past this prisoner who said that he knew the man if he saw him
                                    and would tell on him, but they failed to find the right man again, and we were sent
                                    back to our barracks. The man was caught afterwards to my surprise in our barracks
                                    with some of my regiment at supper, by a spy prisoner and taken to headquarters
                                    under arrest. The man that got cut and the spy that helped the Yanks in the search
                                    were both accused by the loyal rebs of trying to take the Yankee oath. I wrote a
                                    letter home in answer to my money letter. We slept cool and sore boned.
                        [Burke's mother writes that she is sending 8 box of provisions. On August 16
                                    Burke and other prisoners clean up the yard after the guard threatens them with a
                                    bayonet.]
                        Monday August 17th, 1863. Weather pleasant. We had roll call after breakfast as
                                    usual. A strong rumor prevails in camp that we are to be moved somewhere to some
                                    other prison camp. About dinner time an order came for the 14th and several other
                                    Kentucky regiments to get ready to move immediately. Everything soon got into a
                                    hubbub, the boys all getting their things together and the web's or
                                    infantry prisoners gathering up what things we left as they were to remain. I went
                                    to the Yankee officers and got them to promise that when my bux came to send it
                                    back, or forward it on to the camp that we went to, leaving them all necessary
                                    directions. Then dropping a letter in the postoffice for home. We all fell in line
                                    with our baggage and were marched out of the camp gate to the railroad in the
                                    suburbs of the City of Indianapolis, and within a hundred yards of Camp
                                        Carrington14 where we halted and set on the grass to rest.
                                    Camp Carrington was filled with Yankee conscripts and new recruits. They had plank
                                    shanties or houses, built square and about one and a half stories high. All made the
                                    same way presenting an agreeable uniformity. Streets running through the camp like a
                                    well laid off town. It was dusk when the cars came up. Next to the locomotive were
                                    box cars and the last four cars were passenger. My regiment was in front and we got
                                    the passenger cars. I secured a seat and the cars backed down to the city to the
                                    depot for something and then moved forward again. As we passed Camp Carrington a
                                    crowd cheered us and we cheered back. Their camp lights soon faded from our view as
                                    we swiftly sped on our way we knew not where. We then settled ourselves as
                                    comfortable as circumstances would admit to get some sleep. The boys 
                              
                                 14 Camp Carrington was one of several depots for Union
                                            soldiers near Indianapolis. Winslow and Moore, Camp Morton
                                            18614865, 316.
                           
                                     commenced singing and sung everything they
                                    could think of till about midnight. One by one they dropped off to sleep till the
                                    singing ceased entirely. A prisoner jumped over board and was fired at by the guard.
                                    I think he escaped. The cars stopped at Lafayette, Ind. The guard got us some water.
                                    The gas lights were lit. It appeared to be quite a place. We moved on and I slept a
                                    little.
                        Tuesday August 18th, 1863. Weather pleasant. Before sun up I noticed that we were
                                    going through a prairie country, level and without fencing. I could only see a few
                                    bushes as far as I could see on either side. After sun up I saw several trains on
                                    the tracks crossing the track that we were on. We stopped a few minutes at the town
                                    of Westville. The country is much better wooded here. Just before reaching Michigan
                                    city I noticed that the country was getting very sandy. We passed the
                                        Penitentiary15 and entered the city. We got a glimpse of
                                    lake Michigan. I saw several houses nearly covered with sand that had settled around
                                    them in the lake storm. Two kid gloved negro gents of the city stopped and took a
                                    good look at us. The cars stopped about ten minutes. The guards at our door tried to
                                    hook some watermelons from a box car load that stopped near us, but our train moved
                                    too soon. We passed the Penitentiary again and took the Chicago road. The guards
                                    said that we were going to Camp Douglas near Chicago, Ill.16 The
                                    cars run along the lake shore for some distance before we got to the suburbs of
                                    Chicago where we got out. I could see the city and a few sailing boats but no large
                                    crafts. We were marched about four hundred yards inland and arrived at the gate of
                                    Camp Douglas on lake street. I saw two street cars and several carriages of city
                                    folks waiting to see us. The gates swung open and in we marched. The camp appeared
                                    pretty large, with a high fence running around it. I saw a postoffice, barber shop,
                                    picture 
                              
                                 15 The second Indiana state prison was established at
                                            Michigan City in 1859. Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                                                Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (Indianapolis, 1965), 588.
                              
                                 16 Camp Douglas was "four miles south of
                                            [the] center of [the] city of Chicago, Ill., one-eighth of a mile east of
                                            [the] shore of Lake Michigan … established March, 1862
                                            … Water … supply deficient, there being but three
                                            hydrants in camp … Drainage-very deficient, but works are in
                                            progress which will materially improve it … much rain, high winds
                                            … [Barracks] utterly insufficient for present number …
                                            very few of the prison barracks are heated at all. Sinks,
                                            construction—bad; excavations twenty feet long, six feet wide,
                                            four feet deep; not closed in … prisoners generally
                                            filthy." This medical inspection from October 9, 1863, elaborates
                                            on most of these points; the comments on barracks shall suffice:
                                            "all the prisoners' barracks are greatly in need of
                                            repair; there is not a door and hardly a window among them; a large
                                            proportion of the bunks are so mutilated as to be useless; much of the
                                            flooring and siding is removed and the open fire-places in the cook-houses
                                            are in a dilapidated condition; the roofs of all require repairs."
                                            Conditions do improve during Burke's stay as subsequent inspections
                                            substantiate. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VI, 372,
                                            373, 371-74. William Bross in 1878 determined the exact boundaries of the
                                            camp relative to existing Chicago. William Bross, "History of Camp
                                            Douglas," Reminiscences of Chicago During the Civil
                                                War (Chicago, 1914), 160, 163-67.
                           
                                     gallery, two sutler stores, a commissary house,
                                    and a chapel. The first square we entered was the Yankees quarters off to the left,
                                    with long barracks on the sides and flag pole in the center. Then we marched to
                                    another square that was vacant and they called it White Oak square. All of the
                                    barracks were long one story buildings. Four of them forming a square with a cook
                                    house on the outside of the square to each barrack and the length of the barrack.
                                    The barracks were divided into little rooms with from two to ten bunks in each, and
                                    doors and windows to match, also one long room with a row of bunks on each side of
                                    the room, mostly three bunks deep or high, and making room for about eighty men.
                                    There was a general stampede of our boys to secure the little rooms. My mess of four
                                    decided to go in a little room with three of company C. to fill it up making seven
                                    in all in the room. It was [?] feet wide by twenty-five feet long. A door and window
                                    front and a window back. We nailed up a cracker box and three shelves to put our
                                    rations and other tricks on. There was a table ready made in the room when we came.
                                    I made a stout bench about seven feet long from planks I found laying around. We
                                    opened both windows and door to let the fresh air pass through. There was a plank
                                    pavement in front of our door about three feet wide. We received rations of
                                    crackers, bread, bacon, pickelled pork, coffee, sugar, potatoes, hominy, salt, soap,
                                    and candles. Of course, a man only got a handful of each when it was divided, but we
                                    received better rations here than we did at Camp Morton, Ind. I got Sergeant
                                    [William] Millers coffee pot and we made a little chip fire in the square, and we
                                    had some coffee, crackers and broiled bacon for supper. Col. De Land commanding the
                                        post,17 came to our quarters and had a chat with the boys.
                                    They had a thousand or more questions to ask about writing, receiving things, etc. A
                                    lot of us hastily wrote home and a Yankee captain took them to headquarters to be
                                    mailed. A heavy dew fell during the night. I slept better than I expected in my bunk
                                    without any blankets.
                        Wednesday August 19th, 1863. Weather pleasant. On rising I saw that the eaves of the
                                    house were dripping pretty fast caused from the heavy dew. A cart came in with a
                                    load of old buckets and I got two of them. I borrowed a case knife with saw teeth
                                    cut in the back and sawed a barrel into for a tub. We drew no rations today as we
                                    expected to. There was some more prisoners expected that night, and sure enough they
                                    came about midnight making a good deal of noise, and slept on the ground.
                        
                           
                              17 Colonel Charles V. De Land of the First Michigan
                                        Sharpshooters became commandant of Camp Douglas on August 18,1863. Ibid., 434.
                        
                        
                        Thursday August 20th, 1863. Weather pleasant. I rose early and found the ground
                                    inside of the square covered with the beds of the new comers. They brought some
                                    letters from the Camp Morton post-office and among them one for me dated the 12th
                                    inst. from home. We became very hungry before the rations was issued to us today. A
                                    good many citizens and ladies came to take a look at Morgan's men. In the
                                    evening Parson Orr held forth in the square and a good many of the boys attended,
                                    and service was given out for the next day. We have reliable news of Gen. Meads
                                    retreat towards Washington.18 I and Lev Young slept together and
                                    slept chilly and uncomfortable.
                        Friday August 21st, 1863. Weather pleasant. This is thanksgiving day appointed by
                                    president Davis for fasting and prayer throughout the Confederacy.19 Some said that there was meeting but I saw none. We were made to move from
                                    our nice little room into the long room of another barracks with our regiment to
                                    make room for the new comers. Which was not so pleasant. We stubbornly held
                                    possession of our room till the Yanks made us get out. White and Meuron got a top
                                    bunk and I and Lev got a second or middle bunk. The night was chilly.
                        [Burke writes to Camp Morton on August 22 about the box and money which he had not
                                    received.]
                        Monday August 24th, 1863. Weather cool and windy. In the morning the guard line
                                    between us and the sutlers and the rest of the camp was removed, and I and Henry
                                    White concluded to go on a raid through the unoccupied part of the camp to get some
                                    cooking utensils. At one place an Indian guard halted us, and I started to tell him
                                    that we were only going to an empty barrack to hunt for something to cook in. When
                                    he levelled his gun at us saying. "You want to go back there now quick or I'll blow your damned heads off". We
                                    immediately turned back without saying another word. We expected every minute to
                                    hear the Indian's gun crack. We then visited an empty hospital where we got
                                    the following articles, viz: four tin cups, three tin plates, two spoons, four
                                    knives, one fork, one stew pan, one half gallon tin bucket, and a small camp kettle
                                    with a couple of nail holes in the side near the top. We returned to our quarters
                                    and scoured them all up while the other boys got supper. The night was chilly.
                        
                           
                              18 Union General George C. Meade received command of the
                                        Army of the Potomac on June 28, 1863. Boatner, The Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 539, 664. Presumably this is misinterpretation of the
                                        movements after Gettysburg.
                           
                              19 On July 25, 1863, President Jefferson Davis by
                                        proclamation declared August 21 "as a day of fasting, humiliation, and
                                        prayer." There were at least nine other such proclamations throughout
                                        the war. James D. Richardson (ed. and comp.), A Compilation of the
                                            Messages and Papers of the Confederacy including the Diplomatic
                                            Correspondence, 1861-1865 (2 vols., Nashville, 1906). I, 328.
                        
                        
                        [On August 26 the prisoners are forced to shift quarters, and Burke's mess
                                    arranges duties; Burke and Young are cooks. The six men of his mess are in a six by
                                    ten foot room, which they fix up with shelves and other items. Burke becomes ill
                                    with chills and fever on August 30 and receives quinine powders from the doctor; he
                                    is better by September 5.]
                         Sunday September 6th, 1863. Weather pleasant. I had no chill today. A lot of
                                    religious tracts and the American Messenger a religious paper was distributed to the
                                    prisoners. I saw one of the infantry prisoners with a card fastened on his back and
                                    the word Thief! in large letters. He had a guard with him and was
                                    made to walk through camp. I understood that he had been stealing from his own men
                                    who then reported him to headquarters.
                        Monday September 7th, 1863. Weather cloudy. After breakfast I determined to have a
                                    large double tooth on the left upper jaw pulled. It was a good deal decayed and hurt
                                    me while eating. I went to Doctor Flags office20 and he tried
                                    three different kind of pulling instruments before the tooth came out. I sat on a
                                    stool and held to it with both hands. The Doctor came near lifting both the stool
                                    and myself, but I succeeded in bearing it like a martyr without even a whimper.
                                    James Pratt and Thomas Ballard21 put on citizens cloths after
                                    dark and by bribing the guards or otherwise escaped. They had tried to escape three
                                    or four times before. The escape of prisoners from this prison had become a common
                                    nightly occurrence.
                        Tuesday September 8th, 1863. Weather pleasant. We have now four left in the mess. I
                                    wrote home. A lot of testaments and Yankee hymn books were again distributed among
                                    the prisoners. In my regiment there was a list to be signed of persons that needed
                                    clothing. It was handed around. I needed some things but I had hopes of getting them
                                    from home and did not sign it. The clothing was to be furnished by the subscription
                                    of our friends in Kentucky.
                        [Burke buys some fresh vegetables on September 9 and makes "an extra fine
                                    pot of soup." The next day he helps on a work detail.]
                        Friday September 11th, 1863. Weather pleasant. On rising I felt as stiff as if I had
                                    been beaten all over with a stick, from sleeping on the bare plank. A detail from
                                    the regiment made drains to drain the 
                              
                                 20 A report of December, 1863, indicates that besides
                                            the Federal surgeons at the camp there were five volunteer surgeons from
                                            among the Confederate prisoners. Only three are identified in accompanying
                                            papers: Pettus, Thomas P. Holloway, and John L. Cook. Official
                                                Records. Ser. II, Vol. VI, 798. 778-800. Holloway later testified
                                            in the congressional investigation of the treatment of prisoners of war. Ibid., Vol. VII, 342, 348.
                              
                                 21 Pratt and Ballard were in Burke's
                                        mess.
                           
                                     standing water off. Pa got a letter from home
                                    dated the seventh inst. with one dollar marked on the envelope as taken out at
                                    headquarters. I took the envelope to Postmaster Shanks and he wrote me an order on
                                    the sutler for the amount in sutler checks. I took the order to the sutler and he
                                    sent it to headquarters to be approved before I was allowed to have the checks. In
                                    this way the prisoners did not get the money that came to headquarters for them, but
                                    it was taken out and the amount marked on the envelope. Then we had to take
                                    sutler's checks for it and pay whatever the sutler choose to ask for his
                                    goods, which made the profit very large. After supper I went to the
                                    sutler's but my order had not been approved yet. I felt unwell all day the
                                    effects of my bad cold. I made a plank pillow in the shape of a writing desk. About
                                    nine o'clock it rained a little and I retired and rested better than I did
                                    the night before.
                        [Burke finally gets his sutler's goods on Monday, September 14 and has
                                    plenty of bread and milk. Burke reports that infantry prisoners are working on a
                                    ditch for water pipes. Young receives a box from Lexington on September 16 which
                                    includes two blankets for Burke; they eat well and sleep comfortably. Burke
                                    complains: "We had to get all of our water at the hydrons on the opposite
                                    side of camp about three hundred yards, and in passing through the main square the
                                    wind would nearly blow us over" (p. 237).]
                        Friday September 18th, 1863. Weather cool and windy. I mounted a fresh sand pile near
                                    the new ditch and got a glimpse of the lake. The waves were running high. I then got
                                    some pitch from the workmen to mend some leaks in our pitch paper roof. I melted it
                                    and got up on the house and had just mended one leak when a guard on the fence
                                    parapet saw me and levelled his gun at me saying, "You want to get down off
                                    of there." I immediately concluded I did and dropped everything and by
                                    falling and climbing together reached the ground before you could have said
                                    "Jack Roberson." The guards had orders to shoot any person on the
                                    roof of the barracks after warning them, and the guards sometimes shoot without any
                                    warning. I thought I could get through with my job before the guards saw me. A cart
                                    load or two of boxes and bundles for the prisoners in our square came in every day
                                    and were distributed to the owners. Henry White made biscuits for supper, an unusual
                                    occurrence. I had a light chill but no fevor. The night was chilly.
                        [Burke has chills and takes quinine again. On September 22 the prisoners receive news
                                    of General Braxton Bragg's Confederate victory at Chickamauga,
                                        Tennessee.22]
                        
                           
                              22 The Battle of Chicamauga, Tennessee, took place
                                        September 18-19. Confederate forces under Bragg won a tactical victory over
                                        Federal General William s. Rosecrans, whose force retreated to Chattanooga.
                                        Boatner, The Civil War Dictionaly, 151-52.
                        
                        
                        Wednesday September 23, 1863. Weather clear and windy. We were alarmed by a rumor
                                    that spread through camp that we were to start for Rock Island23
                                    in an hour, but it soon quieted down. I saw in the morning papers that the people in
                                    the city was very much alarmed by a rumor that six hundred of us had gotten out of
                                        prison.24 After supper about forty of the boys got into a
                                    game of paddling each other but the guards soon stopped them, and made them go to
                                    their bunks.
                        Thursday September 24th, 1863. Weather pleasant. Eleven hundred prisoners arrived
                                    here from Cumberland gap. Gen. Frazer surrendered them and the gap without a fight,
                                    because they were surrounded.25 The day closed cool and windy.
                        [Once again Burke and part of his regiment changes quarters because of the new
                                    prisoners. Burke compliments the post office facilities at the camp. On October 1
                                    Burke manages to speak for a few minutes to some visitors from Lexington. Only
                                    prisoners who had agreed to take the oath of allegiance were supposed to have or
                                    converse with visitors.]
                        Friday October 2d, 1863. Weather cool and windy. I received a letter from home dated
                                    September 24th with one dollar marked on the envelope. I took the envelope to
                                    headquarters and got one dollar in sutler's checks for it without having
                                    the trouble that I had with the last I received. I requested Ma to send me money in
                                    small sums to ensure my getting it. There was a meeting at the Chapel and I went.
                                    Religious papers were distributed to the congregation and parson James Orr had a lot
                                    of books which he wished to put in a library to be drawn out by members of a
                                    religious society that he was about to form. The object of this society is to
                                    improve the morals of the camp. No one but a member could draw books from the
                                    library. After service the congregation was notified that all that wished to join
                                    the society could remain and give in their names. About thirty of us gave in our
                                    names and drew a book each. We were notified to attend on the morning of the next
                                    day to elect officers for the society. The day closed cloudy and it rained hard
                                    during the night.
                        
                           
                              23 Construction of a depot for prisoners of war on Rock
                                        Island, Illinois, was begun in July, 1863. Problems with water were anticipated,
                                        and the barracks were directed to be "mere shanties" and
                                        constructed as quickly as possible. The first prisoners did not arrive until
                                        December 3, 1863. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VI, 116,
                                        196, 939.
                           
                              24 Probably this is just a rumor since no correspondence
                                        about it has been found in the Official Records for the
                                        period.
                           
                              25 Confederate General John W. Frazer surrendered his
                                        garrison at Cumberland Gap, Tennessee, to Burnside on September 9, 1863.
                                        Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 310, 213.
                        
                        
                        
                           VIEW or CAMP DOUGLAS
                           
                           A—White Oak Square. B—Cemetery.
                                        C—Hospital. D—Parade ground.
                                        E—Prison stockade and prisoners' quarters.
                           Reproduced from Alfred T. Andress, History of Chicago. From the
                                        Earliest person to the Present Time, Vol. II (3 vols.; Chicago: The A. T.
                                        Address Company. Publishers, 1885).
                        
                        
                        Monday October 5th, 1863. Weather cloudy, cool and windy. I felt bad all day, and
                                    late in the evening a light chill came on. At night I and Lev. Young received a
                                    complianmentary ticket to Jack [John] Curds Negro Ministrels. I felt a little like
                                    having a chill, but I thought I would go to the show and see if the excitement would
                                    not drive the threatening chill off. On arriving at the barracks where the show was
                                    I found some three or four hundred prisoners crowded around the door waiting for it
                                    to open. I got into the crowd to keep the cool wind off of me and when the show
                                    opened I was carried in with the crowd. The pressure was so great that I had doubts
                                    as to whether I would get through without getting my ribs or a limb broken. One man
                                    fainted and several others were squeesed so that they could hardly talk. I never
                                    before saw such crowding. Everyone wanted to get front seats. Several persons
                                    climbed over the heads of the crowd and went in. The price of admission was fifteen
                                    cents in Yankee money or three dollars in Confederate money. On getting in I found
                                    the seats all full. The seats were made to slant up from the stage making the last
                                    row of seats about five feet from the floor and the men were standing on these so
                                    that I could not see anything. I climbed up on a rafter, but could not see any
                                    better. The performances commenced and the seats commenced breaking down with a
                                    crash. I heard that one man got his arm broken. The Yanks broke in by the back way.
                                    The show [w]as about half over when the Lieutenant of the guard with a few guards
                                    came in at the side door on the stage in the midst of the contrabands and said,
                                    "What does all of this noise here mean at this time a night. You want to
                                    get out of here everyone of you. I've received no orders to let this thing
                                    go on." Jack Curd then pulled out his permit from Col. De Land to show it
                                    to the Lieutenant, but the Lieutenant would not look at it, but said "Get
                                    out of here you black ruffle shirted s—." So each one of the
                                    band grabbed something and left before myself and others in the back part of the
                                    room hardly knew what was the matter, and we all went back to our quarters glad to
                                    get out of the crowd.
                        [Burke doses himself with quinine for his chills for several days. He is annoyed by
                                    the almost continual presence of card players. Complaints are frequent about the
                                    inadequacy of the water supply: "There was only three hydrons for the whole
                                    camp, two for the prisoners, and one for the Yanks" (p. 242). Waiting in
                                    line for two or three hours for water is not unusual. On October 11 after visiting
                                    several other messes Burke concludes that it looks "like living at home
                                    with the exception of the card playing" (p. 242). On October 13 Burke
                                    writes that "After dark there was an extra set of guards unknown to
                                    us" (p. 242).]
                        Thursday October 15th, 1863. Weather pleasant. There was a large Union flag raised on
                                    the Douglas Institute in honor of the election of  Brow for governor of Ohio over the exiled Vallandingham.26
                                    There was two lines at the hydrons of about a hundred yards long each today, and I
                                    had to wait three hours. We expect the new hydrons near our quarters to be completed
                                    in a few days, as the pipes are all laid.27
                        
                        [Burke, his father, and presumably others draw clothes, "contributed by
                                    friends in Chicago" (p. 243), on October 16. On October 17 Burke mentions
                                    the new fence being completed around the camp. The prisoners get their first water
                                    from the new system on October 18.]
                         Wednesday October 21st, 1863. Weather clear and braceing. We draw fresh beef every
                                    other day, but it is not a number one article being mostly neck, flank, bones and
                                    shanks. Jack Curd's ministrels made a great deal of noice lately practicing
                                    in the next room.
                        Thursday October 22d, 1863. Weather pleasant. A chill and fevor came on about eleven
                                    o'clock lasting three hours. It turned cool and rained in the evening.
                                    Curd's contraband's showed in our kitchen admission twenty-five
                                    cents in sutler checks or script. I and Pa wrote home. I took two powders and went
                                    to the drug store and got six more on Doctor Flag's perscription. No
                                    prisoner can get medicine at the drug store unless he had a perscription from the
                                    doctor of his square. Pettis and Flag are the doctors for White Oak square. It
                                    snowed some during the night.
                        [Burke mentions on October 25 that after roll call each morning "an officer
                                    goes to all the barracks and kitchens and makes the men clean up to keep the camp
                                    healthy" (p. 245).]
                        Tuesday November 3d, 1863. Weather pleasant. Some men of Clukes and
                                    Johnson's regiments28 in another square dug some
                                    underground passages for the purpose of escapeing, and came near finishing them (the
                                    tunnels) when some traitor told on them, and the Yanks marched
                                    them all out in the public square in front of headquarters and put a 
                              
                                 26 John Brough won on the Republican ticket. Clement
                                            L. Vallandigham was evicted from the Confederate states, where he had been
                                            banished by Lincoln. He lived in Canada from early 1863 until June, 1864.
                                                Ibid., 90, 864. Senator Stephen A. Douglas contributed
                                            "ten acres of his holdings in the suburb of Cottage Grove to the
                                            projected Baptist University in Chicago on the condition that a fund of
                                            $100,000 should be raised for the erection of a college building
                                            and the endowment of the institution." The cornerstone of the
                                            building was laid July 4, 1857. Presumably the Douglas Institute that Burke
                                            mentions was Dart of the university campus which w & adjacent to the
                                            prison. Arthur Charles Cole, The Era of the Civil War,
                                                1848-1870 (Springfield, 1919), 237.
                              
                                 27 Colonel William Hoffman, Federal commissary general
                                            of prisoners. mentions in an inspection report of November 15, 1863, that an
                                            increased water supply has just been completed. Official Records, Ser. II,
                                            Vol. VI, 634.
                              
                                 28 Colonel Leroy S. Cluke and Colonel Adam R. Johnson
                                            led regiments of cavalry during Morgan's Raid. Both men escaped at
                                            Buffington Island. Duke, A History of Morgan's
                                            Cavalry, 453, 454.
                           
                                     guard around them with orders to shoot any
                                    person that sit down. The Yanks were trying to make the men tell who the headmen in
                                    the digging was. After standing several hours a guard fired into the crowd without
                                    cause, wounding three of Clukes regiment severely. There was at least a dozen
                                    different reasons given for shooting. I could not learn the truth about the affair.
                                    Some fifteen or twenty finally stept out and acknowledged being the principal
                                    diggers and were sent to the dungeon. The rest were sent back to their barracks.
                        Wednesday November 11th, 1863. Weather pleasant. About dinner time the Yankee
                                    barracks in the main square took fire and attracted a large crowd of prisoners.
                        The Yanks got scared for fear the prisoners would try to break out and brought out
                                    the company of Indians belonging to the first Michigan sharp shooters. They loaded
                                    their guns at the same time ordering the crowd to disperse to their quarters, and we
                                    did so on a double quick. The Indians came down and the white officer in command put
                                    them on guard around the square. Then came in and notified us that if we left the
                                    square we would be shot. I could see the fire from the kitchen. The frame barracks
                                    and pitched roof made a heavy cloud of smoke. The fire was stopped by cutting the
                                    barracks in two, after burning about three hundred feet of barracks and kitchens.
                                    Some of the new fence and Mrs. Finley's sutler sote [shop?] was burned
                                    also. Most everything in the buildings got burned as the fire spread rapidly. The
                                    fire was accidental and caught from a stove pipe.29 As soon as
                                    things got quieted down again the extra guards were taken off. I received a letter
                                    from home from brother Alonzo dated the seventh inst.
                        Thursday November 12th, 1863. Weather pleasant. Wrote home; nothing of interest.
                        
                                    Morgan's War Song.
                                    By Gen. Basil Duke,30 of Kentucky.
                                    Ye sons of the South, take your weapons in hand; The foot of the
                                        fore [foe] hath insulted your land: Sound! Sound the loud alarm! Arise! Arise
                                        and arm!
                                    
                              
                                 29 Hoffman's report of November 15
                                            elaborates, but agrees in substance, with Burke's estimate of the
                                            fire. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VI, 633.
                              
                                 30 Basil W. Duke, one of Morgan's staff
                                            officers, was captured at Buffington Island. Duke, A History of
                                                Morgan's Cavalry, 452.
                           
                                    
                                    Let the hand of each freeman grasp the sword to maintain Those
                                        rights which once lost, he can never regain.
                                    Chorus—Gather fast ‘neath our flag For it is
                                        God's own decree That it's folds shall still float
                                        O'er a land that is free!
                                    See ye not those dark clouds which now threaten the sky? Hear ye
                                        not that stern thunder now bursting so nigh? Shout! Shout your battle cry! Win!
                                        Win this fight or die! What our fathers achieved our own valor can keep, And
                                        we'll save our fair land or we'll sleep our last sleep!
                                    Chorus.
                                    On our hearts, and our arms and our God we rely, And a nation shall
                                        rise, or a people shall die. Form! Form the serried line! Advance! Advance our
                                        proud ensign To your country devote every life that she gave, Let the land they
                                        invade give their army it's grave.
                                    Chorus.
                                    Though their plunder paid hordes came to ravage our land, Give our
                                        fields to the spoiler, our homes to the brand, Our Souls are all aglow, To face
                                        the hireling foe. Give the robbers to know that we never Will yield, While arms
                                        of our Southron a weapon can wield.
                                    Chorus.
                                    From our far Southern shore now arises a prayer; While the cry of
                                        our women fills with anguish the air. Oh! list that pleading voice, Each youth
                                        now make his choice; Now tamely submit like a coward or slave, Or rise and
                                        resist like the free and the brave.
                                    Chorus.
                                    Kentucky! Kentucky! can you suffer the sight Of your sisters
                                        insulted, your friends in the fight? Awake! be free again! Oh! break the tyrant
                                        chain; Let each hand seize the sword it drew for the right From the homes of
                                        your fathers drive the dastard in flight.
                                    Chorus.
                                
                        [Burke's and another mess collect $12 to purchase a cooking stove
                                    and utensils  through a woman in Chicago. Many
                                    prisoners are busy cleaning up on November 14 and 15—with the bribe of a
                                    few drams of liquor-for the expected visit of Colonel Hoffman. The prisoners receive
                                    their cooking stove on November 16 and are pleased with the results.]
                        Thursday November 19th, 1863. Weather cloudy. Some rain fell. Col. De Land came down
                                    and called us all out in line front of our barracks to look for tunnels. The
                                    barracks were searched, but no tunnels found, and we were dismissed to return to our
                                    barracks.
                        Friday November 20th, 1863. Weather cloudy. About dark Col. De Land and Capt. Rines
                                    our commissary of prisoners31 came down and made the whole
                                    regiment fall out in line in front of the barracks. Then we were marched under guard
                                    about a hundred yards out of the square toward the sutler store. The night was
                                    chilly and the most of us had thrown a blanket over us not knowing how long we would
                                    have to stand out. The Yanks were looking for some of Dukes regiment who had dressed
                                    up to escape and come down to our square and had been reported by some traitor as being among the fourteenth Ky. (or Dick Morgan's
                                        regiment.)32 The Yanks caught Wm. Overton, Chas. Steel, and
                                    Tho's Von dressed in citizens suits and marched them off to the guard
                                    house, and we were permitted to return to our barracks having been out about an hour
                                    and a half.
                        Sunday November 22d, 1863. Weather pleasant. An hour before dark my regiment was
                                    called out in line and marched to the main square in front of headquarters. The most
                                    of us did not know what it was for, but Col. De Land soon called for four or five of
                                    our men by name. Three were in ranks and stepped out. The Yankees said that these
                                    men had threatened to hang a man by the name of Stovall belonging to my regiment for
                                    telling on some of the boys that were trying to escape. The Yankees said that they
                                    would protect Stovall, and they tied the three men up by the thumbs to the railing
                                    of the stand around the flag pole. Then sent Pa (our Sergeant Major) and Sergeant
                                    Wm. Miller back to our quarters to find the other two men called for with the pleasing information that if they did not find the men soon that
                                    they would be tied up by the thumbs in their places. The men that were tied stood it
                                    over a half an hour in silence and then 
                              
                                 31 Levant C. Rhines was a captain in the First
                                            Michigan Sharpshooters. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol.
                                            VI, 931.
                              
                                 32 Colonel Richard C. Morgan's regiment was
                                            formed in April, 1863, and Burke's company was attached to it at
                                            that time. Duke, A History of Morgan's Cavalry, 371-72.
                           
                                     commence groaning and hollowing. It made me
                                    almost sick to hear them. Several times the Yankee officers asked them if they were
                                    ready to tell what they knew, and they answered that they knew nothing to tell. A
                                    Yankee surgeon examined them to see how much they could stand. There were some
                                    citizens standing around and they tried to get Col. De Land to take the men down.
                                    The men were taken down after having been tied up so that they had to partly tip toe
                                    for an hour. One of the boys fainted, and another threw up all over himself. Their
                                    names were James Allen, John Sweeney, and Wm. Wason. Col. De Land gave us a lecture
                                    about threatening any person that choose to tell of our escaping and told us to
                                    return to our quarters and find the other two men or he would surely bring us back
                                    and make us stand out all night. We returned to our quarters and the two men, who
                                    had just returned from a visit to another square went to headquarters and gave
                                    themselves up and received their share of the punishment. They were let down when
                                    this traitor Stovall said that he forgive them.
                        Monday November 23d, 1863. Weather a little cool. Stovall did not return to the
                                    regiment but stays somewhere about headquarters ‘for fear of our men.
                        Tuesday November 24th, 1863. Weather cool and windy. A Yankee Sergeant at roll call
                                    read a strict order against our escaping. I wrote to John Cantillon of Richmond,
                                    Kentucky. Late in the evening our whole barrack had to move to let it be fixed up
                                    for the hatchet brigade (the hired prisoners. We call them the chain gang.) We had
                                    to get quarters wherever we could in the square. I and nine of my mess found room
                                    with part of Smith's regiment, and put up our stove. We had a good many
                                    tricks to move. The stove was in the long room and we got bunks near it among co. C.
                                    Eleck Edgar and Hutty Hutchison [M. Hutcherson] slept over at number eight barracks
                                    with our regiment. Some of company C, Smiths boys had a fiddle and struck up a dance
                                    after supper. The men with their hats off represented the ladies.
                        [On November 26 Burke notes that "This is the Yankee thanksgiving day, but I
                                    have not noticed any demonstrations" (p. 252). On November 28 the rumor
                                    spreads of Morgan's escape from prison. There is a disturbance during the
                                    night of December 2.]
                        Thursday December 3d, 1863. Weather pleasant. I learned that one hundred and two
                                    prisoners escaped last night. I went a few doors above here and saw the tunnel. It
                                    was commenced in one of the small rooms in the bottom of a bunk and run out under
                                    the kitchen and  guard line and came up just
                                    outside of the fence. If they had come up two feet back they would have been seen by
                                    the guard. The Yankees were so mad that they came around and tore down all of the
                                    partitions and throwing all of the little rooms into one big room in each barrack.
                                    They also tore up the floors except under the bunks, and we enjoyed ourselves by
                                    jumping around on the sleepers.33 Col. De Land said that he
                                    would turn us all out in the weather if we did not quit digging out. The night air
                                    had free range through the barracks, but I slept well.
                        Friday December 4th, 1863. Weather pleasant. We were all marched to the main square
                                    in front of headquarters where we found all of the prisoners from the other square
                                    also in line. All of the Yankee Lieuts. and Sergeants were set to work searching us.
                                    Some took our knives, money, etc. and put it on paper, but others kept no account.
                                    Like was done at Camp Morton. Then they came around again and took every good coat
                                    in the crowd, and distributed some thin cottonade pepper and salt jackets, and some
                                    thin black rediculous looking tight spade tail Yankee coats in the place of their
                                    warm coats received from home. Some photographs were even taken from our men. In the
                                    meantime a squad of Yankees and work hands searched our quarters and took all the
                                    good clothing they found, and the work hands stole some of the men's
                                    rations. All of the axes, wood saws, and spades were taken away, depriving us of the
                                    means of cutting up our wood and cleaning up our quarters. They left a few rakes I
                                    believe and said that we could comb our heads with them.
                        [On December 9 workmen tear out the rest of the flooring in the barracks. The men are
                                    allowed to fill in with sand in place of a floor. Burke mentions a large swelling in
                                    his arm on December 10. The sutler store is closed on December 12 except to sell out
                                    present stock.34]
                        Sunday December 13th, 1863. Weather rainy. I went to Doctor Pettis and had my pet
                                    (the swelling in the pit of my right arm) examined, and he said it wag not ready to
                                    be lanced. I also got a perscription to get some cough medicine in a bottle. I had
                                    been annoyed by a severe cough for several nights. I went to the drugstore and the
                                    clerk gave me about two inches of a stick of licorice and told me that 
                              
                                 33 On December 3 De Land reported to Hoffman on this
                                            escape from White Oak Square. Because of the frequency of tunnel attempts he
                                            ordered the removal of barracks' floors. "This will
                                            undoubtedly increase the sickness and mortality, but it will save much
                                            trouble and add security." Official Records, Ser.
                                            II, Vol. VI, 637-38.
                              
                                 34 Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton ordered no trade
                                            with sutlers. Hoffman's order to De Land and other Union prison
                                            commandants is dated December 1, 1863. Ibid., 625.
                           
                                     it would do me more good. They were playing
                                    cards and I suppose did not wish to stop to put up the perscription.
                        [On December 17 Burke records: "The barber shop and news stand closed up
                                    today, and the sale of stamps, envelopes, and paper discontinued" (p. 266).
                                    However, the prisoners may buy "extras for greenbacks at the commissaries
                                    after eleven o'clock on ration days" (p. 266). Burke begins laying
                                    in articles for a Christmas dinner on December 22; his messmate, Henry White, has a
                                    $7 order on the commissary for them to use. On December 24 Burke bakes
                                    pies and doughnuts.]
                        Friday December 25th, 1863. Christmas. Weather tolerable pleasant. The prospects for
                                    a dull Christmas were large. The cry of Christmas gift was seldom heard, and when it
                                    was, it was given more as a salute or a joke. No gifts being expected. When Pa came
                                    over to get Sergeants Miller and [George W.] Browns morning reports, I caught him
                                    and invited him to take dinner with us. A Yankee Lieutenant came in to examine the
                                    barracks and asked us if any of us were engaged in the go-fur business (he meant
                                    digging out.) I got the following articles on the order today, 10 candles, one
                                    bottle of pepper sauce, two lbs. of coffee, 7 lbs. sugar, 1 paper of black pepper, 1
                                    paper of allspice, 1 lb. butter, and one lb. lard—$2.45. Pa
                                    came over and made me a present of a pair buckskin cavalry gloves, a pair of socks,
                                    a fancy shawl pin, and a fifty cent sutler ticket. I did not get dinner till late.
                                    The stove was so crowded by the other messes. My bill of fare was, biscuits, tea,
                                    beans and bacon, buttered bakers-bread, toasted, molasses, boiled onions laid in
                                    butter, cheese, peach pie, apple pie, onion pie, plain doughnuts, and sweet
                                    doughnuts. The tea cups, mugs and glasses were refilled and Henry White offered the
                                    following toast.
                        
                                    Toast of Morgan's men.
                                    Unclaimed by the land that bore us, Lost in the land we find, The
                                        brave have gone before us, Cowards are left behind. Then stand to your glasses,
                                        steady, Here's a health to those we prize. Here's a toast to
                                        the dead already, And here's to the next that dies.
                                
                        My guests were well pleased. There was nothing going on at night except several men
                                    hollowing New York. The effects of too much mean whiskey aboard.
                        [On December 26 Burke learns "that nothing would be sold at the commissaries
                                    after today" (p. 258).]
                        
                        Tuesday December 29th, 1863. Weather cold and windy with some snow. I got the balance
                                    of the order on the commissary filled and copied off three southern songs for the
                                    rebble clerk for his attention to filling our order properly. I and Henry White
                                    concluded to build a swinging bunk across the barracks near the roof for the safety
                                    of the contents of our cupboard. We nailed up the rafters for the new bunk after
                                    dusk. Henry White made a raid on the lumber pile where the new hospital is being
                                        erected35 and we walked on the planks to make them look old,
                                    so the Yanks would not notice it.
                        Friday January 1st, 1864. New Year's day. Weather bitter cold. The snow in
                                    some places was four or five feet deep, and a regular gale was blowing it about in
                                    drifts so that it nearly took a man's breath from him to go even a hundred
                                    yards. Six or seven of the guards froze on their beats last night and this morning,
                                    so that they had to be taken to the Yankee hospital. I put a pot of dried peaches to
                                    cooking on the stove to make a big peach roll for dinner. Near twelve
                                    o'clock a guard was put at every door in the barracks and no one allowed to
                                    go out except for fuel, water or a case of absolute necessity. The severity of the
                                    weather remains unchanged, and I think these guards were taken from the fence to
                                    keep from freezing and put at the doors to prevent our escaping. I and Henry White
                                    eat our peach roll by ourselves. I intended to invite Pa and others in his barrack
                                    to take dinner with us, but the blockade cut off my communication. The men had to
                                    carry all the fuel and water they used, and some came near freezing at it. They had
                                    to go about four hundred yards to the wood yard by details. The wood and coal had
                                    always been hauled to us till today. At dusk an officer came around and notified us
                                    and the guards that in half an hour no one would be allowed outside of our barracks
                                    under any pretest whatever till daylight. The night was very cold, but the guards
                                    kept the coal stoves red hot all night, which kept the barracks warm, and we slept
                                    well.
                        Sunday January 3d, 1864. Weather cold, but moderated a little since 
                              
                                 35 Hoffman's report of November 15 indicates
                                            that "Two additional buildings, with enlarged accommodations for
                                            dispensary, storerooms, laundry, &c., are being erected."
                                                Ibid., 634. A February 1, 1864, inspection reports
                                            "A new hospital for prisoners … in process of erection,
                                            containing four wards, with necessary accessories; each ward 100 by 28 by 13
                                            1/2 feet in dimensions, accommodating a total of 189 patients; will be well
                                            ventilated and in every respect well adapted for its purpose." Ibid., 909.
                           
                                     yesterday. The snow lies frozen mostly in
                                    drifts, some of them five feet high and so hard that a man can stand on them. A
                                    Yankee Sergeant came around to all the barracks and read a long list of new rules or
                                    orders signed by Brig. Gen. Orme and H. Burr Assistant Adjutant Gem Commanding Post
                                    of Chicago.36 Co. De Land and the other officers at headquarters
                                    still remains in office. The substance of the new orders are as follows: 1st that we
                                    must only write every thirteen days and then only one letter of two pages of note
                                    paper each. The whole number of prisoners in camp were divided into thirteen squads
                                    each having a certain day to write. 2d. That we cannot visit the other squares
                                    unless we get a pass from the officer of the day. 3d. That we must be in our
                                    barracks by half past five o'clock p.m. and put all lights and fires out at
                                    the beating of the drum at eight o'clock p. m. and no one allowed out side
                                    of the barracks till day, except to go to the sink. A man in company F. Clukes eight
                                    Kentucky badly cut a comrade in a personal quarrel.
                        [Burke reports on January 6 that the guards have found more tunnels. He gets paper,
                                    stamps, and envelopes from headquarters for the $1 he receives from
                                    home.]
                        Friday January 8th' 1864. Weather cold. We have had rumors for several days
                                    that all prisoners of war were ordered to Point Lookout, under Gen.
                                    Butler's jurisdiction to be kept till the Confederate Government will
                                    consent to recognize Butler and exchange negro soldiers captured. As far as I can
                                    learn most of the prisoners would rather remain prisoners a year longer than be
                                    exchanged through Beast Butler (as we call him) for negro troops.37
                        
                        Saturday January 9th, 1864. Weather cool. The ground has thawed 
                              
                                 36 General William W. Orme was "assigned to
                                            command at Chicago, Ill., in cluding Camp Douglas" on December 16,
                                            1863. Ibid., Ser. I, Vol. LII, Part 1, 504. Hudson Burr is
                                            listed as belonging to the United Statw Volunteers. Ibid.,
                                            Ser. II, Vol. VI, 1067, 1068. No actual orders have been found, but in a
                                            report to Stanton on December 7, 1863, Orme had cited the need for changes
                                            at Douglas. Following his appointment to Chicago there is frequent mention
                                            of general changes in official correspondence. Ibid., 661,
                                            860-61, 908-10.
                              
                                 37 General Benjamin F. Butler was appointed
                                            "special agent for exchange of prisoners of war at City
                                            Point," Virginia, as of December 17, 1863, with special emphasis on
                                            the equality of Negro troops and officers in the exchange. Ibid., 711-12. Butler had been outlawed by Davis in 1862 for his
                                            excesses as military governor of New Orleans, and Davis delayed recognition
                                            of his authority. Some prisoners were exchanged immediately, but a general
                                            exchange was not accomplished. See individual entries in Official Records, Series II, and relevant material in William Best
                                            Hesseltine, Civil War Prisons: A Study in War Psychology
                                            (New York, 1964; first published, 1930). Butler allegedly earned the name
                                            "Beast" for his General Order No. 28, May 15, 1862, which
                                            directed Federal soldiers in New Orleans to treat "as a woman of
                                            the town plying her avocation" any female who insulted in any way
                                            an officer of the United States. Hans L. Trefousse, Ben Butler:
                                                The South Called Him BEAST! (New York, 1957). 111.
                           
                                     some leaving standing water. There is a foolish
                                    rumor circulated through camp by some mischevious person to the effect that the
                                    whole number of prisoners in camp had to draw beans to get ten black beans. The
                                    persons getting the black beans to be shot, in retaliation for ten men reported shot
                                    at Richmond, Virginia. Absurd rumors of various kinds are often circulated through
                                    camp.
                        [Burke mentions extra guards on January 10 and more stringent requirements for
                                    visiting other prisoners. On January 17 Burke expresses the fear that many prisoners
                                    at Rock Island and Douglas will take the oath of allegiance because of a newspaper
                                    report he has seen. "After a very dark night we sometimes find a newspaper
                                    in the yard waded tightly over a rock that had been thrown over the fence"
                                    comments Burke on January 18 (p. 262). The next day Burke observes the razing of a
                                    kitchen with subsequent killing of rats: "Two of the men gathered them up
                                    to clean them up to eat them. I understand that rat eating is very extensively
                                    carried on in the other squares, but my curiosity has never made me taste any rats
                                    yet" (p. 263). He later mentions that men "clean them like
                                    squirrels and let them soak well in salt water" (p. 263). Remodeling of the
                                    camp begins on January 20. Burke is twenty-two on January 24; that day the Yankees
                                    begin moving his barrack and the prisoners are moved in and out for several days.]
                        Wednesday January 27th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We had to move out before breakfast.
                                    The whole number of barracks three hundred feet in all in length have the rollers
                                    under them and a capstan on each side near one end to pull them along. The Yanks
                                    told us to lay hold and help them and some of the men did so, but were ordered
                                    around so roughly that they quit, then the Yanks swore that we should not sleep in
                                    the barracks while being moved because we would not work. I received a letter from
                                    home dated the twenty-first inst. and a. notice from headquarters of some things for
                                    myself and Pa at the express office. Six or seven of us passed the guards with Pa,
                                    and got our goods, etc. I got nearly everything that my letter called for. There was
                                    some apples in my box and the examiner gave me one and Pa one and a Yank sitting by
                                    wanted one of them, till the examiner told him that there was more in the box. We
                                    were not allowed to have the boxes for fear they had false bottoms etc. with money
                                    or contraband news in them. In the evening a good many of the men took their things
                                    outside of the square on a grass plot and erected some sheds out of old timber to
                                    sleep under. A lot of us got up on the new hospital on the sly and saw the lake,
                                    city and surrounding country. The country outside of the city as far as I could see
                                    was nearly level and thinly settled. Near dusk an officer came around and made us
                                    all move back in the old square where the mud wzls six in. deep to spend the night.
                                    I and Henry White took our blankets over to number eight barrack where most of the
                                    fourteenth Ky. were and dept in an empty bottom bunk. This barrack with barracks No.
                                    nine and ten will also  be moved as soon as our
                                    five barracks reach their new position. I did not think that so long a string of
                                    building could be moved without breaking to pieces. The rats kept me awake most of
                                    the night running around my head.
                        [Burke's barrack is in place on February 4. On February 6 Burke helps put
                                    short legs on the barrack and lay the floor; his father moves into Burke's
                                    barrack. The moving of other barracks continues. On February 11 Burke names the only
                                    three men of the Fourteenth Kentucky who have taken the oath of allegiance.]
                        Sunday February 14th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A case of smallpox was taken outside of
                                    the camp to the smallpox hospital, from the next barracks below us, and several
                                    other cases are reported, causing considerable uneasiness among the prisoners, and
                                    the Yanks themselves. Some Yankee surgeon came around and vaccinated nearly all of
                                    the fifth and fourteenth Ky. reg'ts. I concluded to put it off to see how
                                    it served others, not believing that the matter was pure. Pa as Sergeant Major of
                                    the fourteenth Ky. got permission to build or partition of a room in number eight
                                    barrack for his mess. So five or six of us made a double floor and a partition
                                    making a room ten feet wide by twenty-five feet long, with one window back and one
                                    window and a door front. The prisoners were marched out by regiments and vaccinated.
                                    In times of peace this used to be Valentine day, but I see nothing here to remind me
                                    of such old times.
                        [Burke mentions more cases of smallpox on February 16 and 16. Burke and his father
                                    are now part of a mess of eight men; the mess receives a small coal stove for its
                                    room from the guards and pilfers a barrel of coal that infantry prisoners have left
                                    outside. The room is improved with shelves and a desk. and the coal stove is traded
                                    for an old cooking stove.]
                        Monday February 22d, 1864. Weather pleasant. The prisoners are amusing themselves out
                                    of doors at running, jumping, flying kites, and playing ball. Mrs.
                                    Finnely's new sutler store opened today with prices very high. We made up a
                                    mess fund of four dollars in Yankee money and I took charge of it as secretary and
                                    treasurer for the mess. I got some things today at the sutler's for the
                                    mess. In times of peace this day was always celebrated as Washington's
                                    birthday, but I have not seen the slightest signs of any demonstration whatever on
                                    the part of the Yankees, but we still honor his memory.
                        Saturday February 27th, 1864. Weather cloudy. The whole camp ground was nearly
                                    covered with standing water, looking almost like a large pond. The Yankee roll call
                                    sergeant had some trouble to get  our regiment
                                    out in line in the mud. Last night four prisoners tried to escape. They put two
                                    ladders against the fence and two got away, and one John Cecil of Co. K. eight Ky.
                                    was mortally wounded, and the other man reached his quarters without detection. The
                                    Yankees are busy raising our barracks higher with jack screws. We were two feet from
                                    the ground before, but now we will be five feet. This is being done to prevent us
                                    from digging out under the floors. The barracks will be set on six inch timber legs
                                    so that the Yanks can see under them. There is some twenty odd new Yankee barracks
                                    being erected in their part of the camp. I received a letter from Miss D. R. of
                                    Richmond Ky. The night was cold, and the ground froze up.
                        Sunday February 28th) 1864. Weather pleasant. Sun out. The Yanks are at work as usual
                                    today. We have good news of a severe Yankee defeat in Florida.38
                                    Jno. Cecil shot yesterday died at the hospital today. Most of us washed and shaved
                                    up. Each of us generally washed once a week.
                        Monday February 29th, 1864. Weather cool. An old two story sutler store, and about
                                    two hundred feet of barracks and kitchens, also some sheds, wood, etc. were all
                                    burned in the Yankee part of camp today. Two steam fire engines and two hand engines
                                    were soon on hand. The evening paper stated that the sutler store was used as a
                                    carpenter shop, and a workman made a fire in the stove and went up stairs. By some
                                    means the shavings around the stove took fire and he was driven from the house by
                                    the smoke before he could save the tools. I made six dried apple pies today. A man
                                    or two escapes some way or other nearly every night.
                        [On March 1 Burke's regiment receives tickets for ten days rations which is
                                    unusual. Burke states on March 3 that new headquarter's officers are coming
                                    in and things will probably be harder. Prisoners receive "positive
                                    instructions to write but one page of note paper" on March 5 (p. 272).
                                    There are new roll call officers on March 6.39]
                        Monday March 7th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We were kept out in the mud at roll call
                                    two hours again. The sutler store opened late in the day. I could not get to the
                                    counter and I got a friend in ahead of 
                              
                                 38 Union troops under General Truman Seymour landed at
                                            Jacksonville. Florida, on February 7, 1864, and moved inland unopposed. On
                                            February 20 they were defeated by Confederate troops at Olustee, Florida.
                                            Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 608.
                              
                                 39 On April 7, 1864, Orme sent Hoffman a corrected
                                            roll of prisoners at Douglas—with eighty—four
                                            unaccounted for-compiled by new officers who took charge on March 1. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 20-21.
                           
                                     me to make my purchases for me. We received the
                                    following additional orders: 
                              1st. to rise at sound of bugle at sunrise.
                              2d. roll call " " " " one hour after.
                              3d. dismissal" "" " and breakfast.
                              4th. fatigue detail at 8 o'clock A. M.
                              5th. recall of " " 12 " M
                              6th. dinner " 121/2" P. M.
                              7th. fatigue detail " 1 " "
                              8th. recall " " 5 " "
                              9th. supper detail at 5 1/2 o'clock P. M.
                              10th. lights out " 7 " "
                            Forty four more prisoners arrived today and were crowded in with the
                                    fourteenth Ky. as company F. they are a good looking set of men. Some of them were
                                    captured with paroles given them by the Yankees on a former occasion in their
                                    pockets, also writing from the Confederate authorities recognizing their paroles,
                                    and their being rearrest was a violation of the rules of war.
                        [On March S Burke mentions that men often get only empty envelopes in the mail,
                                    "The letters having been taken out at headquarters by the examiners on
                                    account of their being too long or containing contraband news" (p. 273).]
                        Friday March 11th, 1864. Weather cool and cloudy. We had to attend roll call in a
                                    misty rain and snow. We drew beef and light .bread and had soup for dinner. We draw
                                    beef and light bread nearly every other day. We use the checker board mostly in the
                                    mess now to kill time. Cards are rarely played. The smallpox is raging
                                        moderately.40 Only four cases were taken from this square
                                    today. The mud on the way to and from the sutler store and sink is about eight or
                                    ten inches deep and no prospects of its drying up soon. This may encourage the
                                    spread of the smallpox. I hear of a man or two escaping every few nights, altho it
                                    had become a very difficult matter to get out.
                        Saturday March 12th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We are still kept at roll call as long
                                    as usual. An order was read to us at roll call requesting all that wanted to take
                                    the oath to report to Col. Wm. Hoffman at Washington City D. C. by letter, stating
                                    why they wanted to take the oath, etc. etc. etc. 1 learn that about two thirds of
                                    the prisoners sent to the smallpox hospital have died, and that there is about forty
                                    cases in the hospital now. There has been several escaped from there across 
                              
                                 40 An inspection report of Camp Douglas for April 16,
                                            1864, indicates that smallpox was increasing among the prisoners and
                                            decreasing among the guards in the garrison. Ibid.,
                                        57.
                           
                                     the prairie on recovering. It rained after
                                    dark. Arguments, puzzles and hard questions are all the go this two or three days
                                    past to kill time.
                        Sunday March 13th' 1864. Weather cool. A little snow on the ground. There is
                                    a rumor in camp that the Yankee army under Sherman has been defeated with heavy
                                    loss, and that we will be exchanged soon, and we are inclined to put some confidence
                                    in the rumor on account of the oaths being offered to us.41
                        
                        Monday March 14th, 1864. Weather cool. Our Yankee sergeant brought six spades, one
                                    rake and two wheelbarrows and called for a detail of nine men to dig a ditch in
                                    front of the barracks. The detail was taken from company A in a alphabetical order.
                                    They dug sixty feet of ditch by twelve o'clock, and were dismissed. At one
                                    o'clock company B furnished the detail of nine men till five
                                    o'clock, and dug one hundred and fifty feet of ditch. James Allen, myself,
                                    Henry [W.] Beach, Chas. Byrnes [or Byrne], Jas. [James C.] Beeler, Jack Curd, Edwin
                                    [or Edward] Colgan, Jorden [or Jordan] Cook and Frank Davis [or Davies] were the
                                    detail. Jack Curd was as usual in his comic mood, and took charge of us. The Yankee
                                    sergeant kept near us bossing the job. Jack Curd kept his eye on him and when he
                                    turned his back Jack would give the word rest and when he turned
                                    towards us Jack gave the word work. The Yank kept pretty close
                                    most of the evening. Jack stopt to blow a little and wiping the sweat from his eyes
                                    he said, "I told the sergeant my name was spelled with a
                                    K. instead of a C, but he would'nt believe it." We were dismissed
                                    at five o'clock. The night was cold.
                        [Burke on March 16 reports learning that some of the First Michigan Sharpshooters
                                    have deserted because ordered to the front. Burke mentions a weekly literary
                                    association in one square. On March 14 Burke's barrack receives two iron
                                    boilers to use for washing clothes: "There is six feet of pipe to each, and
                                    they look like locomotives on a small scale at a distance" (p. 276).]
                        Monday March 21st, 1864. Weather cool. Companies D. and E. furnished nine men each on
                                    detail to clean up around the barracks. The boys in the next room are making a
                                    little newspaper called The Prisoners Vidette.42 It is on a
                                    sheet of foolscap and written with the 
                              
                                 41 From February 3 to March 5, 1864, General William
                                            T. Sherman conducted a successful campaign around Meridian, Mississippi.
                                            Federal troops under General William Sooy Smith were supposed to join
                                            Sherman but were defeated ignominiously by Confederate cavalry at West
                                            Point, Mississippi, on February 21, 1864. Boatner, The Civil
                                                War Dictionary, 543-44, 905-906.
                              
                                 42 Morgan's men occasionally published a
                                            newspaper called the Vidette after August, 1862. Orders,
                                            promotions, notices, accounts of battles, and, according to Duke,
                                            "the most profound and brilliant speculations on the political
                                            future, and
                           
                                     pen altogether. It contains all of the camp
                                    rumors, original poetry, songs, and jokes, advertisement, etc. A good thing to kill
                                    time with.
                        Tuesday March 22d, 1864. Weather pleasant. This morning the mess made new rules by
                                    which the mess was to be governed. Each member was assigned to certain duties.
                                    Myself, Wm. C. McConathy and Geo. C. Fallis are the regular cooks, each cooking
                                    every third day. Wm. Miller draws rations. Henry Beach washes dishes. Henry White
                                    brings water. Old Jerry Murphy and Pa saws and splits the wood. By a new order we
                                    had to be in line for roll call by the time the bugle sounded. Five minutes after
                                    the sound to fall in. Then all of the Yankee sergeants assisted by their two
                                    corporals and four privates each commenced counting of and calling the roll. The
                                    rebel sergeant majors accounting to the Yanks for the missing in their respective
                                    squads or regiments. As soon as the Yankee sergeants are through they gather in an
                                    open space between the two squares leaving the prisoners in line, and the bugle
                                    sounds for all to return to their barracks. When all the Yankee sergeants report,
                                    this is a signal for a general stampede for the barracks.
                        Wednesday March 23d, 1864. Weather very pleasant. Twelve men escaped from the dungeon
                                    last night by means of a tunnel. Three of them passed out after day light, and but
                                    for day light coming too soon for them everybody in the dungeon would have escaped.
                                    The hole was won discovered after day light and filled up. I visited' David
                                    Hickey's mess and [saw] a snow white mouse with pink eyes under a tumbler.
                                    It was the size of a common mouse and was caught in the coal box. The sutler store
                                    is closed and Mrs. Finley is moving out of our part of the camp. Some rebs bent on
                                    mischief got a back window of the sutler store open and cleared the shelves as far
                                    as they could reach in every direction, and late in the evening some more broke in
                                    at a side door and got a few things and escaped without being caught. The Yanks say
                                    that they there will be another sutler store at the same place by a man who will
                                    sell a good variety of fruits, tobacco, dry goods, etc. John Messick of Co. A. and
                                    fifteen others were released from the dungeon and sent to their regiments.
                        Thursday March 24, 1864. Weather pleasant. Last night some of Morgan's men
                                    hooked a hot stove from the sutler store and put it up in one of their kitchens. The
                                    new sutler commenced moving in. He brought in a wagon load of tobacco, apples and
                                    other things and 
                              … the ablest critiques upon the conduct of the war"
                                            were included. Apparently. Morgan's men lost little of their
                                            ingenuity in prison. Duke, A History of Morgan's
                                                Cavalry, 226-27.
                           
                            stored them in his back room. While he
                                    was in the front room fixing shelves, etc. the boys came near stealing everything he
                                    had. Capt. Sponable43 saw them and laughed. He said,
                                    "That sutler might as well learn how to deal with the prisoners now as any other time. They are cutting his eye teeth, but I bet
                                    he'll tax them pretty heavy to pay for it." Henry White brought
                                    the water and I washed mine and his cloths. Some men belonging to Scotts Brigade44 are in this line of barracks and have been ordered by the
                                    Yanks to report to the fourteenth for roll call and rations, and they did not like
                                    it. They and some of the disaffected in the old fourteenth got up a petition to Pa
                                    to resign his place as Sergeant Major to one of Scotts men. The petition was signed
                                    by about one third of the regiment and among them the would be sergeant major. His
                                    name is John H. Miller. Pa got hold of the petition and showed it to the roll call
                                    sergeant and he told him to continue on regardless of the petition. Pa says that he
                                    would not act any longer under any consideration. The sutler name is Luman Burr.
                        Friday March 25th' 1864. Weather pleasant. Eleck Edgar raised subscription
                                    of three dollars and sent to the city by our Yankee roll call sergeant and bought a
                                    gum foot ball. It is now going the rounds in a crowd of some three or four hundred
                                    men in the center of this square and many a skinned and bruised shin will be the
                                    result of it. The new sutler sells his goods ‘very high. He issued his
                                    first checks today. They are on thin paper and are steel engraved and harder to
                                    counterfeit than those used by the other sutlers.
                        Sunday March 27th, 1864. Weather cool. A tunnel was discovered by some treacherous
                                    rebel and reported to the Yanks. It is in the other square by the side of the fire
                                    place a kitchen near the fence. The rebs were busy cooking over the covered hole
                                    when an officer came in and said, "What are you cooking over that hole for?
                                    Aint you afraid your things will fall in." There is no hole here said the
                                    rebs. Yes there is take the pots off, and I'll show you. The rebs moved
                                    their things off and the officer removed the fire and ashes and raised a trap door
                                    disclosing the hole, much to the feigned astonishment of the rebs. The officer was
                                    angry and told the men that he 
                              
                                 43 Captain Wells Sponable, Fifteenth Regiment, Veteran
                                            Reserve Corps was presumably one of the new officers who took charge of
                                            prisoners on March 1, 1864. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 21.
                              
                                 44 This probably refers to Colonel John Scott under
                                            whom some of Morgan's men fought at Chickamauga in September, 1863.
                                            Duke, A History of Morgan's Calvary,
                                        509-10.
                           
                                     would find every hole that they dug, and its
                                    was no use to dig them. The hole was filled up by pressing the rebs standing around
                                    into service. The men that dug it say that it would have been though on the outside
                                    of the fence in one night more. They had been detained a couple of nights on account
                                    of water rising in the hole. The ground being still very wet from the recent rains.
                                    There was only a few rebs that knew where the hole was, but there was a good many
                                    that suspicioned that there was one somewhere in that neighborhood and so put on
                                    their best cloths for two or three nights past, in the hope of finding it, and
                                    escaping. The diggers were afraid of traitorous spies and worked secretly. Many true
                                    men were not posted. They were out slipping around as soon as it was well dark to
                                    learn something, and whenever they heard a noise or saw a Yankee patrol they would
                                    dodge into the nearest barracks like scared rats. Some rascally fellow played what
                                    would have been a severe joke on one Robert Lowery of Company A. of this regiment,
                                    had he succeeded in escaping. "Secesh! soap for sale." were
                                    written on his back in large letters with chalk or soap. Of course, this would have
                                    caused his arrest on the first appearance of day light. I received a letter from
                                    home from Brother Alonzo dated the 24th inst. The Chicago papers the Post and
                                    Tribune gives an account of the rebel Gen. Forest capturing Paducah, Ky. and the
                                    city nearly burned down in the fight.43
                        
                        Monday March 28th, 1864. Weather rainy. We all had to stand out in the rain and mud
                                    at roll call nearly two hours. There was a lot of stray letters came in the
                                    fourteenth's mail and I took the responsibility on myself of distributing
                                    them to their owners in other regiments. There is a dead letter office in the other
                                    square kept by Gillespie the sergeant major of the Chicamauga square or part of it.
                                    I stept in to see my friend John F. Clarer of second Ky., who by the way is one of
                                    the best silver smiths in camp. He has tools and a work bench in his room and I
                                    generally find him at work making gutta-percha rings, breastpins, etc. ornamenting
                                    them with fancy sets of gold, silver, and pearl. I saw some engraved stars,
                                    cresents, shields, etc. for hat ornaments of gold and silver. There is about thirty
                                    ring makers in camp, but the most of them have no tools fit for the business. 
                              
                                 45 Chicago newspapers with regular war news were the
                                                Tribune, Times, Journal, and Post. The
                                                Tribune was the leading Republican newspaper. After December, 1861,
                                            the Tribune began regular morning, afternoon, and evening editions. The Times was pro-Southern because of the sentiments of its
                                            editor, Wilbur F. Storey. It had been suppressed for two
                                            days—June 2-3, 1863—by order of Burnside. J. Cutler
                                            Andrews, The North Reports the Civil War (Pittsburgh,
                                            1966), 28-30, 34. See also "Suppression of the Times," Reminiscences of Chicago During the Civil War, 151-59.
                                            Forrest occupied Paducah on March 25 and unsuccessfully tried to take nearby
                                            Fort Anderson. The Comte de Paris, History of the Civil War in
                                                America (4 vols., Philadelphia, 1888), IV, 470-72.
                           
                                     The Yanks are tearing down all of the kitchens
                                    near the fence now to prevent any more holes being dug in that quarter. It rained
                                    most all day making it very muddy and disagreeable under foot. Yankee patrols are
                                    very thick in camp during the night.
                        Tuesday March 29th, 1864. Weather cloudy. My mess is out of meat and sugar and we
                                    don't draw rations till first of April, so we have to buy five pounds of
                                    sugar and eight or ten pounds of fat meat every other draw day extra. We buy from
                                    the infantry prisoners at the rates of ten cents per pound for sugar and from five
                                    to seven cents per pound for fat meat. The infantry from the extreme south need a
                                    little cash to buy things they cannot draw, so they save up part of their rations
                                    and sell them. We Kentuckians etc. living north of the army lines have a better
                                    chance to get money from our friends, so we generally fare better than they. The
                                    game of checkers still holds its own as the principle lever of killing time. It has
                                    been raining and hailing most of the day.
                        Wednesday March 30th, 1864. Weather cloudy. The mess succeeded in buying some sugar
                                    and bacon. I visited some friends in the second Ky. and found the Yanks tearing down
                                    their kitchens and cutting the long barracks all around the square into sections or
                                    barracks, about ninety feet in length for the purpose of moving them into the square
                                    and arranging them so as to form streets between them. The barracks will be put on
                                    five foot posts and have a double floor put in them. They have been without floors
                                    since about the first of December last.46 As I passed the sutler
                                    store I saw Cap. Bushnell paying tickets to the men, on their envelopes. The money
                                    is taken out at headquarters and the amount marked on the envelopes. The prisoners
                                    then takes the envelopes to the sutler store and draws the amount in tickets. There
                                    was an unusually large crowd at the sutler's window today. The nearest ones
                                    to the window held their envelopes in their hands, the others stuck their envelopes
                                    in split sticks and poked them in. One man had a stick about seven feet long. He
                                    being on the outside of the crowd. All were eager to be paid off first. The Yanks
                                    issued clothing (mostly underclothing) to the reb work hands, as part payment for
                                    their work. They also receive a certain quantity of tobacco per week. I am very well
                                    satisfied from what I have seen and heard, that a large portion of the clothing
                                    taken from us are given to these reb workmen in payment for building the new fence,
                                    etc.
                        
                           
                              46 On June 1, 1864, Sweet wrote to Hoffman describing
                                        changes and improvements in the arrangement and policing of the camp. Among
                                        other things he gives details on barracks size. Official
                                        Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 184-86.
                        
                        
                        Thursday March 31st, 1864. Weather cloudy. All the regimental rolls were made out a
                                    new by order from headquarters, causing rumor of an exchange to be circulated
                                    through camp. We drew meal, flour, meat, potatoes, and hominy, part of ten
                                    days' rations. Today the Chicago Post and Tribune contain glowing accounts
                                    of the copperhead or Southern Sympathizer disturbance in the
                                    southern counties of this state, Illinois. The union men seem to have got the worst
                                    of the melee.47
                        
                        [There is a lot of "April fooling" on the first. On April 2 Burke
                                    walks through camp and notes the prisoner pie merchants around the sutler's
                                    store and the "reb gambling tables" throughout the camp. Burke
                                    mentions the delivery of tents to the camp and the consequent rumor that prisoners
                                    will have to live in tents.48]
                        Sunday April 3d, 1864. Weather a little cool. We were kept out at roll call three
                                    hours and a quarter to find one missing man. When the bugle
                                    sounded to break ranks several of the regiment hollowed for joy and two of the
                                    guards threatened to shoot them. We have a mean set of guards with one exception, a
                                    little corporal by the name of Norton. We nicknamed the four privates, viz: Old red, Jack Curd in disguise, Hessian Dutchman, and the Wild Irishman. Old red alias O'Hara is the most vindictive.
                                    He is always on the alert, watching for a chance to shoot somebody. I often hear it
                                    whispered through the ranks, lookout, here come Old red. He bayoneted several of the
                                    men, and we have no particular love for him. A sergeant, two corporals, and five
                                    privates have charge of us, most of them I have named above, have to guard us at
                                    roll call, make details to clean up in and around the barracks, and see that our
                                    rations and fuel are hauled to us. They also patrol the camp at night, and are
                                    independent of the regular guards on the parapet. Just at dark I took a walk through
                                    camp to see how the lamps at the foot of the fence threw their light. I found that
                                    the lamps were so close together and the light so brilliant that it would be almost
                                    impossible to get to the fence without being discovered by the guards on top. I was
                                    standing in the shade of one of the barracks arguing to myself the chances of
                                    dropping on the ground close to the fence in the darkest place and quietly digging
                                        
                              
                                 47 Early in March there were disturbances in Edgar and
                                            Calhoun counties. Burke probably refers specifically to the riot on March 28
                                            in Charleston. Wood Gray, The Hidden Civil War: The Story of
                                                the Copperheads (New York, 1942), 165. See also Charles H. Coleman
                                            and Paul H. Spence, "The Charleston Riot, March 28, 1864,"
                                                Illinois State Historical Society Journal, XXXIII
                                            (March, 1940), 7-56.
                              
                                 48 New tents on hand at the camp are mentioned as a
                                            possible relief of the barracks shortage in a report of June 4, 1864. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 195.
                           
                                     under or cutting a plank, when Major Skinner49 and two other officers turned a corner near me with a lamp.
                                    The Major asked me where No. ten barrack was. I told him I did not know. He then
                                    said never mind, and passed on. I followed at some distance and passed them, halted
                                    at the door of one of the Chickamauga prisoners, where religious meeting was going
                                    on. I could see the officers I had just passed, in conversation with some reb.
                                    Another prisoner passed them and came to where I stood. He said that one of the
                                    officers asked the reb if he (the reb) had not applied for the oath. I made up my
                                    mind that the reb was a treacherous scoundrel giving information to the Yankees, and
                                    returned to my quarters.
                        [Burke states on April 4 that the Rebel sergeant majors sent a petition to Major
                                    Skinner to change roll call so men need not remain outside for two or three hours in
                                    bad weather; there was no answer. On April 5 a prisoner steals $200 in
                                    sutler checks, and retribution on the prisoners is threatened but not carried out.
                                    Burke records that "The Chicago morning and evening papers are kept for
                                    sale at the sutler's at ten cents each. They are the Post,
                                        Tribune and Journal. The Times is a
                                    copperhead paper and its sale forbidden in camp since the first of September last.
                                    It has been smuggled in on a good many occasions at some risk" (pp.
                                    283-84).]
                        Sunday April 10th, 1864. Weather cloudy. Three or four rebs are standing on barrel
                                    heads at the gate as a punishment for various offences. One of them for being caught
                                    with several canteens of the over joyful that he had bought
                                    secretly from some guard. Several of the reb workmen are at work at the carpenter
                                    shop framing some small buildings for the Yanks. The balance of the rations are
                                    being issued to the squads that did not finish yesterday. There is rumors afloat
                                    that Gen. Morgan and forces are near Bighill, Ky.50 There has
                                    been a low railing about 18 inches high put all around the camp about ten feet from
                                    the fence on the inside. It is called the dead line. Any person caught between the
                                    railing and the fence is liable to be shot without warning. If our hat blows over a
                                    guard must get it or we loose it. Two ladies escorted by an officer passed through
                                    the principal part of our camp, and as usual created some excitement among the rebs.
                                    One of the ladies actually of her own free will and accord deliberately kissed a
                                    reb. My stars how the rest of us envied him. When they came to the crowd near the
                                    gate to go out, some reb cried out, "Give way to the right and left, let
                                    the artillery pass."
                        Monday April 11th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The sun is out and the 
                              
                                 49 Major Lewis C. Skinner belonged to the Eighth
                                            Regiment, Veteran Reserve Corps. Ibid., 57.
                              
                                 50 Morgan was given command of the Department of
                                            Southwestern Virginia, including a portion of East Tennessee. He apparently
                                            was not in Kentucky at this time. Duke, A History of
                                                Morgan's Cavalry, 514-15.
                           
                                     mud is drying up fast. Everything looks lively.
                                    There is a large list of express goods advertised to be distributed to the owners at
                                    the usual hour (Eleven o'clock A. M.) I notice that a couple of the large
                                    dwellings just out side of the fence on Cottage Grove ave. are being repaired and
                                    painted, indicating that pleasant weather is expected. The slop or soap grease man
                                    drives a two horse team around every day or two. He is paid by the government (that
                                    is the federal government) to pick up and haul off all the offals in camp, and to
                                    save trouble he pays the men smoking tobacco, which is nothing more than tobacco
                                    stems ground up to save the soap grease, etc. separate in barrels till he calls for
                                    it. A man that takes him a bucket full soap grease gets a hand full of tobacco, and
                                    a man that takes him a barrel full of soap grease only gets about twice as much. So
                                    most of them have adopted the plan of taking him a hand full or a plate full at a
                                    time. It pays better. Every wagon, carriage, cart, etc. that comes in camp has a
                                    guard on it till it leaves. To see that nothing is given to the rebs. The wagons and
                                    carts belonging to the camp are driven by Yanks, and require no guards.
                        Tuesday April 12th, 1864. Weather cool and cloudy. I wrote to Henry C. Metcalfe of
                                    Lexington, Ky. Three of Chinaults men51 were caught trying to
                                    make their escape last night. Today they and another for some other offence were
                                    balled and chained and put to work at the dirt pile in the center of the square
                                    filling the carts that are hauling off the dirt. The chain to each iron ball or
                                    block is four or five feet long and very stout, with a clasp to lock and unlock to
                                    fit around the ankle at one end. The ball looks as if it will eight about fifty-six
                                    pounds. The men have leather straps tied to their balls to enable them to carry them
                                    about when they have to move more than the length of the chain. The men call their
                                    balls and chains their time pieces. One of them takes his off on the sly by means of
                                    a fiddle string which he doubles and twists in the key hole of the clasp, and
                                    unlocks it whenever the Yanks are not about. One of his friends wished to see how it
                                    fit on his own ankle, so he sprung the lock and after satisfying himself he
                                    proceeded with the assistance of the owner to unlock it with the fiddle string, and
                                    it was with some difficulty and a great deal of anxiety to the wearer that it
                                    yielded to their efforts. The string having broken three or four times. There is all
                                    kinds of rumors about an exchange being agreed upon. Some persons seem to take a
                                    delight in starting rumors, and if they hear anything no matter how unreasonable
                                    they never rest till they ha .e spread it all 
                              
                                 51 Colonel C. W. Chenault recruited a regiment for
                                            Morgan in Kentucky in 1862 when Burke joined up with Morgan. Chenault was
                                            killed in July, 1863, near Columbia, Kentucky. Ibid., 235,
                                            421.
                           
                                     over camp. My friend James D—though
                                    a well meaning fellow is one of this class that I have noticed particularly. A
                                    detail cleaned out the ditches leading from the hydrons, but a good many of the men
                                    as usual took the nearest cut to the hydrons jumping or walking across the ditches,
                                    which broke in the edges and checked up the free drainage of water. The Patrols
                                    getting out of patience telling the men to go around and cross the ditches at the
                                    wagon crossing commenced punishing all that they caught jumping by making them jump
                                    across the ditch thirty or forty times in quick succession, then making them cross
                                    at the wagon crossing.
                        Thursday April 14th, 1864. Weather tolerable pleasant. After the roll was called and
                                    we were expecting every minute to hear the bugle sound for dismissal, the Yankee
                                    sergeant and corporals commenced searching our barracks. In about half an hour they
                                    came out with a hand full of money nearly all Confederate that they found and had
                                    taken from the sick men in the barracks. Then they commenced at the head of the
                                    regiment searching men separately by running their hands into the men's
                                    pockets, feeling over their clothing, and turning them over to a private who made
                                    them sit on a barrel and pull off their boots. Then shaking the boots and feeling
                                    around their feet the men then put on their boots and formed a new line of two ranks
                                    as fast as they passed through the mill. The search was so unexpected that the men
                                    had but little time to prepare for it, but most of them succeeded in hiding their
                                    money, some about their clothes and others in the mud at their feet. Every cent of
                                    every description that was found except sutler's checks was taken. I had
                                    the satisfaction of knowing that they got nothing from me. Pa was searched also, but
                                    through respect as the Sergeant Major they did not make him pull off his boots. As
                                    soon as they finished searching our regiment we were dismissed. After standing out
                                    about four hours with orders to stay in our barracks till all of the regimens were
                                    searched. It was about an hour and a half before all of the regiments were
                                    dismissed, then the men went out and dug up their money. I understand that the Yanks
                                    got twenty-three thousand five hundred and forty dollars in all from the prisoners.
                                    No one appears to know what this indiscriminate robbery is for. This is the second
                                    time it has occured to us in this camp. I have noti[c]ed lately that a good many of
                                    the men that signed the petition some time since requesting the Sergeant Major to
                                    resign in favor of a stranger in Scotts command by the name of John H. Miller who
                                    himself signed the petition still lounge as usual in our room and on the beds,
                                    borrow and cook on the stove, sleep in the  room
                                    and ask unusual favors of him. Today he hid a pocketbook by request for one of these
                                    men, and risked his own in his pocket. The Chicago papers brings the news that Gen.
                                    Forrest has captured Fort Pillow and garrison. There is a great deal of noise about
                                    the negroes being killed.52
                        
                        Friday April 15th, 1864. Weather pleasant. There was a rumor in camp last night and
                                    this morning that all of our extra clothing would be taken from us. A good many
                                    believed it and donned their best, but roll call passed off without anything being
                                    confiscated. We are afraid all the time of being robbed.
                        Saturday April 16th, 1864. Weather cool, spitting snow most all day, with lively
                                    snowing for an hour late in the evening. The four men with balls and chains have to
                                    work every day like convicts. There is a new dungeon or guard house nearly completed
                                    in this square. It sits on short posts about eighteen inches high and is made of
                                    heavy timbers. The room is about eight feet square and seven feet high, with a door
                                    in front, and two diamond shaped windows or air holes on two sides of it. The Yanks
                                    call it the monitor, but we call it the four of diamonds.
                        Sunday April 17th, 1864. Weather pleasant. While at roll call the following order was
                                    pasted on the different barracks and public places.
                        
                                    NOTICE TO PRISONERS OF WAR.
                                    1st—All money either paper or specie found in the possession of any
                                        prisoner of war after April 19th, 12 o'clock (M) will be confiscated.
                                    2d—Prisoners will be allowed to turn over to Lt. H. Proseus all money
                                        ion, giving at the same time the amount and kind of money and name of company
                                        and regiment. All money turned over as above stated will be CREDITED to the
                                        owner.
                                    Wells Sponable Capt. Inspector General.
                                
                        The men laugh at the order and say that they will chalk their money to Sponable as
                                    the experience of the past has taught them to be their own guardians. The day closed
                                    wet and rainy.
                        Monday April 18th, 1864. Weather pleasant. It is the Fourteenth writing day. There
                                    was more letters than there is men in the regiment handed in, and they all had to be
                                    given back and each man give 
                              
                                 52 Forrest commanded what has been called a
                                            "massacre" at Fort Pillow, Tennessee, on April 12, 1864.
                                            "The Committee on the Conduct of the War concluded that the
                                            Confederates were guilty of atrocities which included murdering most of the
                                            garrison after it surrendered, burying Negro soldiers alive, and setting
                                            fire to tents containing Federal wounded." Northerners tend to
                                            agree; southerners, to disagree. Boatner, The Civil War
                                                Dictionary, 296-96.
                           
                                     in one letter. There is some of companies E.
                                    and F. that live in our lines and have to write by flag of truce.
                                    They do not write every time and often give in letters for us Kentuckians. In that
                                    way we pass extra letters. Several prisoners went out on the oath today and several
                                    others that had applied for it refused to take it, and they were balled and chained.
                                    I see the American express wagon unloading boxes, etc. at the express office nearly
                                    every day. It rained some during the day. I received a letter from home, with one
                                    dollar marked on the envelope.
                        Tuesday April 19th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I went to the sutler's and drew
                                    a dollar's worth of checks on my envelope without any trouble. As usual on
                                    every day like this there is a good many at work washing clothes. The Yanks made the
                                    gamblers at the sutler store scatter and piled up their home made tables in the
                                    center of the square at the lumber pile. David Thompson and several others were
                                    pressed in to work in the Yankee camp. The city papers brings us the news of a
                                    disasterous Federal defeat at the Battle of Mansfield or Pleasant Hill, La.53 We see every day speeches from prominent congressmen, in the
                                    congress of the United States advocating the peace policy.54 A
                                    prisoner was put in the four of diamonds today for selling several suits of clothes
                                    that were sent to other persons, in his care by some benevolent person or persons in
                                    Kentucky.
                        Wednesday April 20th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The gamblers seem to have been
                                    effectually scattered as there is no tables in operation today. Squads of our men
                                    overseered by Yanks are busy with rakes, brooms, spades, and wheelbarrows cleaning
                                    up around the barracks. I volunteered for exercise and wheeled six or seven loads of
                                    dirt to the dirt pile, then fell in with a lot of men carrying empty ration barrels
                                    outside the gate into the Yankee camp just to see how things looked out there since
                                    the fence was put up. The Old Yankee post Chaplain Rev. E. B. Tuttle drove around
                                    through camp in a buggy and distributed a large number of religious newspapers. Some
                                    of the reading we respect but most of it, the abolition articles we read with the
                                    utmost contempt. A prisoner went to captain Sponable and wished to turn over his
                                    money in accordance with the order. The Capt. sent for Lt. H. Proseus. The Lt. came
                                    and set down the fellow's 
                              
                                 53 On April 8, 1864, Confederate General Richard
                                            Taylor successfully halted a Federal force outside of Mansfield, Louisiana,
                                            at Sabine Cross Roads. On April 9 Taylor's force was repulsed when
                                            it attacked the Federal force at Pleasant Hill. The Federal advance was
                                            stopped and Federal losses were high. Ibid., 715-16.
                              
                                 54 The record in the Congressional
                                            Globe of proceedings of the first session of the Thirty-eighth Congress
                                            from early April, 1864, to this date contains matters pertaining to the war,
                                            but nothing has been found regarding a peace policy as suggested by
                                        Burke.
                           
                                     name, company and regiment, then asked how much
                                    he had, expecting a big haul. The fellow answered that he had fifty cents in Sparta,
                                    Tenn. money, and was immediately impressed by the rapid application of the
                                    Lieut.'s boot to his rear, and a shower of curses, with the idea that he
                                    had better make himself scarce, and he acted accordingly. This is the only person
                                    that I have heard of offering to turn over anything.
                        Thursday April 21st, 1864. Weather pleasant. I received notice that my name was on
                                    the express list, so I repaired to the office and waited with the crowd till my name
                                    was called. I got a hat and a pair of cavalry boots all that I sent for. The hat
                                    fit, but the boots were number eights, two sizes too large. I think I can trade them
                                    for number sixes. A large fine looking porker was unfortunate enough to get into the
                                    camp and was run nearly to death by the men, who had as much fun out of it as they
                                    could get before it was turned out the gate. They then commenced hunting the hole
                                    that the hog came through, but were driven back. A reb string band consisting of two
                                    v'olins, two guitars, and a flute in the next room furnished good music
                                    from dark till bed time.
                        Friday April 22d, 1864. Weather cloudy. It rained part of the day. The smallpox is a
                                    little on the increase. After lights out the brass band in the Yankee camp played
                                    six or eight pieces. It sounded very clear and distinct in the still night air. Gen.
                                    Dan E. Sickles of the Washington city, Tragedy notoriety has been speaking in
                                    Chicago and visited the camp yesterday in company with Gen. Orme.55 I suppose the band is serenading one or both of these distinguished men.
                        Saturday April 23d, 1864. Weather cloudy. I received a letter from my uncle Wm. H.
                                    Burke of Canton, Ohio, who came to see me while I was a prisoner at Murfreesboro,
                                    Tenn. He was then acting Brigade Quarter Master, but has since resigned and returned
                                    home. His son Augustus and his son-in-law Mr. Myers have resigned also their
                                    positions in the Yankee army. The spirits of the prisoners as a mass are good. We
                                    are still more confident of the success of our cause, and all we want is to be
                                    exchanged. Most of the men that have at different time applied for the oath since
                                    our residence here, now say that they will not take it. I understand there has been
                                    about fifteen hundred 
                              
                                 55 General Daniel E. Sickles, who lost a leg at the
                                            Battle of Gettysburg, had been acquitted. on a plea of temporary insanity,
                                            of the murder of his wife's lover. He kept his wife, and she soon
                                            committed suicide. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary,
                                        760.
                           
                                     applications for the oath out of the six
                                    thousand prisoners that the commander of the Camp Col. Strong56
                                    claims to have here.
                        Monday April 25th, 1864. Weather cloudy. It is very disagreeable under foot. Raining
                                    most all day. The evening papers were not allowed to be sold in camp. There is
                                    strong rumors afloat that the Confederates have recaptured the City of Plymouth
                                    North Carolina and a large number of prisoners, arms, etc., etc.57 The Yanks are unusually cross. They made the men quit talking in the
                                    barracks after lights out.
                        Tuesday April 26th, 1864. Weather pleasant. This morning's papers give the
                                    account of the fight in North Carolina. The Confederates captured Brigadier Gen.
                                    Wessel and two thousand five hundred men and officers of less rank. The city of
                                    Plymouth and Fort Williams with twenty-five guns and a large quantity of small arms,
                                    ammunition, provisions, etc. were also captured. The Federals also had three
                                    gunboats sunk by the new Confederate iron clad ram Roanoke. One of the prisoners was
                                    caught sitting on the lumber pile whittling the lumber and he was taken to the gate
                                    and put up on a barrel head, then a hard barrel stave was given him with
                                    instructions to whittle constantly till he was dismissed. He was whittling very
                                    leisurely when I saw him. He was kept about three hours. Several of the prisoners
                                    went out on the oath today, or "swallowed the dog," as some of the
                                    boys call it.
                        Thursday April 28th' 1864. Weather pleasant. Notice was given for all the
                                    men in camp that belonged to Louisiana regiments to report in line at two
                                    o'clock p.m. They did so about thirty-five strong, and were marched to the
                                    express office where some clothing were distributed to them. It was rumored that a
                                    committee from New Orleans brought the clothing for destitute Louisianaians. A good
                                    many has gone out on the oath in the last four or five days.
                        
                           
                              56 Colonel James C. Strong, Fifteenth Regiment, Veteran
                                        Reserve Corps, commanded the garrison. He and his regiment probably came in
                                        January, 1864, since they are not mentioned in connection with Douglas until an
                                        inspection report of January 18, 1864. Ofticial Records, Ser.
                                        II, Vol. VI, 860.
                           
                              57 Confederate General Robert F. Hoke conducted an attack
                                        on the Federal garrison at Plymouth, North Carolina, under General Henry W.
                                        Wessells from April 17, 1864, to April 20, when Wessells surrendered. Boatner,
                                            The Civil War Dictionary, 656.
                        
                        
                        Friday April 29th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I wrote home and spent part of the day
                                    washing cloths for Pa and myself. Henry W. Beach received a fine box of provisions
                                    from home of ham, bread, biscuits, pies, cakes, sausage, chickens, pickels, oranges,
                                    sardines, bottled tomato catsup, some books, etc., rn our mess will live high for
                                    awhile. I saw two toys out on end of a barrack below here that were worked by the
                                    wind, representing a negro and a white man striking at each other with paddles, and
                                    the harder the wind blows the faster they strike. We drew ten days' rations
                                    today. Our candles are cut off, and we received meal instead of the portion of flour
                                    we were in the habit of getting, and all pickled pork instead of beef, three times
                                    in the ten days. The mud has nearly all been dried up.
                        [Burke's barrack receives pitch sheeting to mend the roof. He mentions that
                                    five men of the Fourteenth Kentucky died of smallpox in April.]
                        Thursday May 5th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A procession of thirty citizens walked in
                                    two ranks through the principal part of camp headed by Major Skinner. A prisoner put
                                    on citizens cloths and came n[e]ar passing out the gate with them as they left and
                                    escaping, but some short minded prisoner in the crowd standing by hollowed at him
                                    and caused the Yanks to notice him, and ordered him back. Notice was given us that
                                    no more lights would be allowed after sun down, and we must go early to bed.
                        Friday May 6th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A lake breeze set in before dinner suddenly
                                    changing the air a little cool. We are all very eager to hear the news of the great
                                    battle between Gens. Grant and Lee in front of Richmond, Virginia. We are confident
                                    of Lee's success and the impregnability of Richmond.58
                                    Geo. Fallis has just been released from working. He has been working six days as a
                                    punishment for remarking while working on detail that he would make some Yankee
                                    prisoner work with interest some day or other. The guard happened to overhear him,
                                    and reported him to Lieut. Proseus who made him work the six days.
                        Wednesday May 11th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Elijah Watkins, Pa and Wm. Gibbons, made
                                    a neat head piece of wood for the grave of 
                              
                                 58 The events at this time refer to the Battle of
                                            Wilderness, Virginia, from May 5-7, 1864. Federal losses were estimated at
                                            17,666 out of 101,895. Grant withdrew. From May 7-20, 1864, these two armies
                                            engaged in the Spotsylvania campaign as Grant continued to try to open the
                                            way to Richmond, the Confederate capital. Ibid.,
                                        919-25.
                           
                                     Wm. Wasson. I learn that the bodies of all
                                    smallpox cases are not allowed to be transported till a certain time expires. One of
                                    the Yankee corporals found a ladder under the barracks just below us in a place
                                    where I had been in the habit of passing under it a good many times daring the day
                                    and did not discover it, but the Yanks are searching every place for ladders. A new
                                    building about fifty feet long by twenty-five feet wide also a small addition on one
                                    end twelve feet square has just been completed near the gate. The express office
                                    occupies part of it and the tool shop and drug store the rest of it. We all received
                                    proper notice that no more boots would be allowed to be received, and those that
                                    were on the way could be sold or traded for shoes.
                        Thursday May 12th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A Yank came in our room and conscripted
                                    Arthur Johnston and Wm. Brown to work. It happened that both were visitors. A
                                    quarrel took place in Smith's barracks between Joseph McCarney and Doctor
                                    Scroggin, in which they came to blows. When Abner Scroggin the Doctor's
                                    brother attack McCarney also, who then drew his knife and cut both Scroggins
                                    severely before the fight was stopped. Abner being cut the worst struck out for the
                                    drug store and McCarney started to go over in the other square, but he was stopped
                                    in the center of the square and conscripted to fill the dirt cart by a Yank who knew
                                    nothing of the fight. The Yanks soon heard of it and Lieut. Proseus and a sergeant
                                    soon afterwards came up to McCarney and asked him something. Then the sergeant drew
                                    his pistol and the Lieut. asked him for his knife, and on receiving it struck
                                    McCarney in the face, and with oaths told him to double quick to the dungeon (or the
                                    four of diamonds). McCarney started and the Lieut. commenced kicking him in a most
                                    brutal manner. McCarney then struck out in a brisk trot and the Lieut. followed
                                    kicking him at almost every step till they reached the dungeon, a distance of about
                                    one hundred yards. Then kicking him several times more the Lieut. opened the door
                                    and kicked him in. Soon some officers gathered around and took him out, pulled his
                                    cloths off, and searched them. He dressed again and they kicked and cuffed him
                                    around awhile and put him back in the dungeon. Several went in with him and ties his
                                    foot and head together with the assurance that he would be shot. A crowd of
                                    prisoners had collected in the square and had witnessed the Lieutenant's
                                    brutal treatment of McCarney. They were dispersed by the patrols with pistols drawn.
                                    The crowd dispersed sullenly but quietly to their quarters, knowing that they were
                                    powerless to interfere, but feeling very indignant at the treatment McCarney had
                                    received. In the meantime Doctor  Scroggin had
                                    his wound dressed and Abner was sent in an ambulance to the hospital.
                        Friday May 13th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I wrote to my aunt Mrs. Susan Miller of
                                    Medina Co. Ohio. Conscripting today heavy. The evening papers claim a federal
                                    victory over Lee, making some of the men look down in the mouth, but a careful
                                    examination of the complicated reports and dispatches we deny it. Soon after a rumor
                                    was circulated that Grant was retreating. After dark myself and others counted forty
                                    odd skyrockets that were sent up from some public square or house in the city over
                                    the supposed federal victory of Grant in Virginia.
                        [Burke reports that "The improvements in camp are going rapidly on by forced
                                    labor," and he "can't even write in peace"
                                    avoiding the conscripting guards (p. 296). There are several barracks searches.]
                        Thursday May 19th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We had an unusually long roll call. The
                                    news is good Gen. Siegal has been cut to pieces by Gen. Breckinridge.59 Butler has been driven into his earthworks near City Point, Virginia,
                                    with the loss of Brigadier Gen. Heckman and nearly all of his brigade captured, also
                                    a heavy loss in killed and wounded.60 Sherman's losses
                                    are heavy in advancing on Johnson.61 Gold is quoted at
                                    $1.83 in New York.62 Abner Scroggin has died of his
                                    wounds. He said that he was in the wrong and requested that nothing be done with
                                    Joseph McCarney. We drew ten days' rations. I received some writing
                                    materials, cakes, pickles, etc. from home.
                        
                           
                              59 At New Market, Virginia, on May 15, 1864, Federal
                                        General Franz Sigel was defeated by troops under General John C. Breckinridge.
                                            Ibid., 588.
                           
                              60 This report concerns the events connected with
                                        Drewry's Bluff, Virginia, from May 12-16, 1864. Butler was defeated by
                                        Confederate forces under General Pierre G. Beauregard. General Charles A.
                                        Heckman was captured in the battle on May 16. Ibid., 247-49,
                                        391-92.
                           
                              61 This probably refers to the events around Resaca,
                                        Georgia, from May 13-16, 1864. Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston
                                        "dropped back skillfully before Sherman's overwhelming
                                        strength" in the Atlanta campaign. Ibid., 691-92,
                                        441.
                           
                              62 Burke quotes the price of gold from May 19, at
                                        $1.83, until July 11, at $2.83; the price rises gradually
                                        over that period. The changes in the price of gold reflect changes in the
                                        valuation of the Federal government's paper money and credit. Although
                                        there were many factors to be considered, the price of gold was greatly
                                        dependent upon war and government news. Burke's rise in price indicates
                                        a decrease in Federal monetary stability. The highest value of gold-the lowest
                                        value of currency-during the war was reached in July, 1864. Speculation in gold
                                        took place all over the country, but the price of gold current in New York
                                        markets was reported by telegraph to most large towns in the United States and
                                        was considered authoritative. Wesley Clair Mitchell, A History of
                                            the Greenbacks, with special reference to the economic consequences of their
                                            issue: 1862-65 (Chicago, 1903), 182-238.
                        
                        
                        Saturday May 21st, 1864. Weather very warm. Henry Beach received a box of provisions
                                    from home (Lexington, Ky.) Federal papers put Grant's loss before Richmond
                                    at 76,000. Up to the present date gold is firm at $1.83 3/4. Some two or
                                    three hundred prisoners are worked in camp daily. The hydrons are in bad working
                                    order at present, and it is tedious work to get sufficient water for necessary
                                    purposes. A notice was posted on the sutler's door to effect that all that
                                    have checks must spend them by Monday next, when the store will close. Gen. Orme has
                                    resigned on account of bad health, and Col. B. J. Sweet of the invalid corps is his
                                    successor in command of the Post of Chicago.63 Some of Col.
                                    Sweet's friends are expected to succeed the present sutler, Mr. Luman Burr.
                        ["A small new one story daguerrean gallery" is completed on May 23
                                    (p. 298).]
                        Tuesday May 24th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call we were notified to fall out
                                    again at 1 o'clock p.m. to have a general count. Most of us donned our best
                                    cloths as a precautionary measure, as we expected to have the barracks searched
                                    during our absence. At the appointed time the bugle sounded and we fell in line. The
                                    different regiments and squads all marched into our square and were formed in lines
                                    running parallel with our own. There was ten or twelve lines two deep, each
                                    stretching across the prison square making quite a show of Confederate troops. The
                                    Daguerreanist then took a picture of the whole crowd. We were counted off and
                                    divided into squads of one hundred and sixty-five each. A small squad had to be
                                    added to the old fourteenth to make the required number. Companies E, F and Scotts
                                    men formed a squad with Sergeant John H. Miller in charge of them. Pa has only to
                                    attend to our squad. We were out four hours but were allowed to sit down part of the
                                    time. After we were dismissed I learned that the total was 5,227 prisoners in
                                        camp.64 Gold is quoted at $1.851/2 today.
                        [Burke and the other prisoners help move their barrack to Walnut Square. Burr, the
                                    sutler, closes out on May 25. On May 28 Burke's regiment is moved from its
                                    "comfortable quarters into an old rickety dirty barrack" (p. 299).
                                    The stove is set up outside.]
                        
                           
                              63 On May 2, 1864, Orme retired from the service, and
                                        command of the post of Chicago was turned over to Colonel Benjamin J. Sweet,
                                        Eighth Regiment, Veteran Reserve Corps. Official Records, Ser.
                                        II, Vol. VII, 102. The Invalid Corps was begun in April, 1863, in order to
                                        utilize men unfit for full combat duty. Because of unfortunate correspondences
                                        with the designation "Inspected—Condemned" for
                                        discarded Union property, the name was changed to Veteran Reserve Corps in
                                        March, 1864. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 870.
                           
                              64 Monthly returns indicate that 5,277 prisoners were on
                                        hand May 31, 1864. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VIII, 996.
                        
                        
                        Monday May 30th, 1864. Weather windy. I volunteered to help push a barrack that was
                                    on its way across the square. I worked two hours and quit. We drew rations for ten
                                    days. The following is what my mess of eight gets for the ten days: Meal 24 cups,
                                    pickle-pork 22 lbs, hominy 4 qts, fresh beef 18 lbs, light bread 24 loaves, parched
                                    coffee 4 pts, molasses 3 pts, sugar 5 qts, salt 1 qts, potatoes 1 peck. No soap,
                                    flour, candles, pepper, peas, beans, or vinegar were issued this time. Our beef and
                                    bread is not all issued at once, but we draw them in three different drawings during
                                    the ten days, so that we get them tolerable fresh. It is impossible to stand out
                                    five minutes without getting our eyes and faces full of sand and dust. I notice that
                                    nearly all the Yanks wear great green goggles to protect their eyes. The sand blows
                                    about in drifts. I often think that the Yanks were not much to blame for wishing to
                                    go prospecting in the South, as their own country at least this part of it is not
                                    fit to live in. Gold is quoted by the evening papers at $1.91 1/4. A
                                    considerable rise.
                        [There is an attempted escape and several incidents of brutality by the guards. On
                                    June 4 Burke's barrack is being moved again.65]
                        Sunday June 5th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We have had short roll calls for the last
                                    week, but this morning all the prisoners were marched in two lines around the whole
                                    prison near the dead line, and several columns through the square. Then Capt.
                                    Sponable assisted by Lieut. Proseus and some sergeants and corporals belonging to
                                    the patrol guard, counted the prisoners off in squads of 100 each. As soon as a
                                    squad was counted the left was advanced about six paces, the right standing firm,
                                    making a quarter right wheel, then they were allowed to sit down. When all were
                                    counted we were notified that a blue jacket had been stolen from the workshop, and
                                    that we would be kept w[h]ere we were till we told who got it or where it was. This
                                    was news to me and it appeared to be the same with everybody else. An hour passed
                                    off and no tidings of the jacket. Capt. Sponable then told us that he would let us
                                    go to our quarters, and if the jacket was not found by one o'clock he would
                                    call us all out again. We were glad to get off for the most of us had not eaten
                                    breakfast yet. My mess was just pouring out the coffee when the roll call bugle
                                    sounded. When we returned we found everything cold and the fire out. I went to the
                                    express office and when my name was called I went in. The Yankee took a handful of
                                    cigars out of my box and then gave it to me. On arriving at my barrack I found the
                                    box to contain the following articles: A gray jacket and vest, and some socks, soap,
                                    crackers, 
                              
                                 65 On June 1 Sweet wrote to Hoffman describing in some
                                            detail changes and improvements in the arrangement and policing of the camp.
                                                Ibid., Vol. VII, 184-85.
                           
                                     marbles, and two novels for myself. A hat,
                                    socks, soap, thread, a pair of shoes, and a part of a box of cigars for Pa. Also a
                                    hat and a pair of shoes for Estus Garrett of 2d Kentucky, which I immediately
                                    delivered to him in person. Everything came that the list called for. The box was
                                    started from Lexington, Ky. on the 1st inst. making only three days on the way as it
                                    arrived at the express office yesterday. Shanks is now writing at the express
                                    office. We were not called out again. I think the jacket was found. There was no
                                    work done today. We moved our stove into the barrack.
                        Monday June 6th, 1864. Weather a little cool. I got Robert Lowery of Co. A to cut my
                                    hair tolerable short. I hear that a good part of the camp is out of rations, and it
                                    will be three or four days till we draw again, Gold is quoted at $1.94.
                                    After the retiring bugle sounded the Yanks were strict.
                        Tuesday June 7th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I received a letter from home with a check
                                    in it on the sutler for one dollar. A large crowd of prisoners have been conscripted
                                    to work, and they are moving the barracks around on quick time. A lot of us took a
                                    measure of ourselves. I came out just five feet seven inches, not any taller than I
                                    was a year ago. We had to take all the stoves, boxes, barrels, etc. out of the
                                    barrack to make room for the carpenters, who commenced at the opposite end of the
                                    barrack from my bunk knocking down a couple of tiers of bunks at a time, and putting
                                    them up to suit the Yanks, at the same time altering the windows and remodeling the
                                    whole concern. They will not reach me till some time tomorrow. The papers say that
                                    the U. S. Government can't afford to issue any more coffee, sugar, or
                                        molasses.66 This is certainly very unwelcome news to us. The
                                    night was chilly.
                        Wednesday June 8th, 1864. Weather cloudy. I received a letter from John Cantillon of
                                    Richmond, Ky. The carpenters are at work again today. After dinner a Yankee told
                                    some of the men that we would have to move into the barrack opposite us, which
                                    caused a stampede to secure bunks. I got a middle bunk. The regiment that was in it
                                    moved to another barrack and gave us full possession, and we moved in. The barrack
                                    was very dirty and the balance of the evening was 
                              
                                 66 On June 1, 1864, Hoffman issued a circular listing
                                            new rations for prisoners: tea, sugar, and coffee were restricted to the
                                            sick and wounded; molasses was eliminated. The savings gained from this
                                            reduction was to go into the prison fund, used for improving the camp. Ibid., 183-84, 73. Correspondence in Nay about the
                                            reduction says nothing about specific financial motives; the tea, coffee,
                                            and sugar were eliminated "to reduce the ration to that issued by
                                            the rebel Government to their own troops." Ibid.,
                                            151, 150-51.
                           
                                     spent in cleaning out. It is also old and
                                    rickety and will have to be put on posts and remoddled. Both ends are now open. The
                                    Cleveland, Ohio convention nominated Freemont and Cockerane, and the Baltimore,
                                    Maryland Convention nominated Lincoln and Johnson, to run on the 6th of November
                                    next for the office of President and vice president of the United States. The
                                    Chicago Illinois convention has not met yet.67 Gold is quoted at
                                    $1.95 3/8. The night was chilly.
                        Thursday June 9th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I wrote home. We drew rations, but no
                                    coffee, sugar, or molasses. Morgan is in Kentucky with a scattered force and has had
                                    possession of Mt. Sterling, Winchester, Crab Orchard, Richmond, Maysville,
                                    Cynthiana, Paris, and is near Lexington." Gold is quoted at
                                    $1.97 3/4. I got up on a barrack with some work hands and had a fine view
                                    of the lake and country. I saw a crowd collected at the race track nearby waiting
                                    for a race. The country looked green and the houses looked clean and comfortable.
                                    The people walking about as if there was no war going on, and here I have been
                                    wasting part of the prime of life in this miserable place a prisoner, and not
                                    knowing how much longer I will be forced to remain. I could not help envying them
                                    their liberty, yet I try to be contented.
                        [The new sutler is Benjamin Nightingale; his goods are
                                    "interesting" but expensive. It is rumored on June 11 that there
                                    will be an inspection and confiscation of extra clothes on the next day.]
                        Sunday June 12th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The roll call was short and all passed off
                                    quietly. Nearly all of us had our best cloths on and were agreeably disappointed.
                                    Some of the boys say that they dressed up to see Mr. Fred. Douglas69 (Colored) but they were disappointed. Every time a man dressed up he is
                                    asked if he is expecting to see Fred. Douglas. It is now a common phrase.
                        
                           
                              67 On June 7, 1864, the regular Republican convention met
                                        in Baltimore, Maryland, and nominated Lincoln and Andrew Johnson for the ticket.
                                        Renegade or radical Republicans had met at Cleveland, Ohio, on May 31 and
                                        nominated John C. Fremont and John Cochrane to run in the November election.
                                        After postponing the July 4 convention, Democrats met in Chicago on August 29
                                        and nominated General George B. McClellan and George H. Pendleton of Ohio. J. G.
                                        Randall and David Donald, The Civil War and Reconstruction
                                        (Boston, 1961), 468, 474.
                           
                              68 Morgan began his "last" or
                                        "June raid" into Kentucky in late May, 1864. He reached
                                        Cynthiana and captured the Federal garrison under General Edward H. Hobson on
                                        June 11. Morgan was forced to begin his retreat back to Virginia on June 12 when
                                        he suffered heavy losses against a superior Federal force. He was killed on
                                        September 4, 1864, in Greenville, Tennessee. Duke, A History of
                                            Morgan's Cavalry, 518-28, 539.
                           
                              69 Frederick Douglass had escaped from slavery and
                                        eventually bought his freedom. He became an antislavery leader and during the
                                        war he recruited Negro regiments. Boatner, The Civil War
                                        Dictionary, 245.
                        
                        
                        Monday June 13th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call Frank Boyd of Company A was
                                    reported to have died at the hospital. The morning papers say that Morgan captured
                                    Gen. Hobson and 1500 men at Cynthiana, Ky. The capitol is also threatened. An order
                                    was issued to the prisoners to burn all the old cloths laying about the barracks.
                                    About a two horse wagon load was soon collected in the square and burned.
                        Tuesday June 14th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A few yards of the fence was taken down
                                    and three old barracks from the Yankee camp were rolled in and the fence immediately
                                    put up again. We have good news from Gen. Forrest. He routed Gen. Sturger army and
                                    captured about 6000 prisoners, with artillery, wagons, etc. The Battle took place at
                                    Guntown, Miss.70 Two carriages full of ladies and a lady on
                                    horse back drove through camp this evening. Citizens and ladies often appear on the
                                    parapet through the day and take a look at us. They are always accompanied by an
                                    officer and only stay a few minutes. They are not allowed to speack to us or we to
                                    them.
                        [Burke receives a note from Frank Boyd contradicting his death.]
                        Friday June 17th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Our rations have given out, and we are
                                    living on scraps. There has been a good deal of clothing issued by the Yanks to the
                                    needy in the last four or five days, consisting of shoes, dark blue pants, gray
                                    jackets or coats, high crowned gray hats, cotton drawers, woolen shirts, and a few
                                    socks, by the rules of war. When a Government holds prisoners of war a certain
                                    length of time or till they become needy, the Government is required to clothe them.
                                    So we have a right to the clothing. Most of the workhands have been working for
                                    clothing which they could have gotten without working if they had only waited. The
                                    majority of the prisoners are against working for the Yankees in my form. Two
                                    prisoners got into the Yankee camp and escaped over the fence by means of a ladder
                                    where there was no guard. I did not learn their names. I coughed part of the night.
                        [Burke gets some cough medicine at the drugstore. Again there are rumors that extra
                                    clothes will be confiscated. Carpenters are still working on the barracks.]
                        Monday June 20th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We all dressed up to see Fred, but roll
                                    call passed off as usual, nothing taken. The men in 
                              
                                 70 A Confederate force under Forrest defeated a much
                                            larger force under General Samuel D. Sturgis on June 10, 1864, at
                                            Brice's Cross Roads near Guntown, Mississippi. Ibid., 85.
                           
                                     the other end of the barrack from me were
                                    ordered to go to another barrack to give the carpenters room,to work. When the alarm
                                    was given we all charged for the empty barrack to,secure bunks. I run myself out of
                                    breath without getting a bunk and then learned that my end of the barrack would not
                                    have to move just now. After dinner, however, the workmen commenced on my end of the
                                    barrack first, knocking down the bunks right and left hardly giving us time to move
                                    out. Henry White secured a bunk in the vacant end of the barrack, where also most of
                                    the men left out found bunks. I and Henry put a few minutes work on our bunk and
                                    made it tolerable comfortable. This part of the barrack is very old and shackling
                                    and leans considerably to one,side, a hard wind would make it dangerous to stay in.
                                    In a few minutes after the bugle at sun down sounded the Yankees rocked the barrack
                                    because we were talking. They often threaten to shoot in the barrack.
                        Tuesday June 21st, 1864. Weather warm. It is Henry White's day to cook. He
                                    says that he hates to cook, and would rather take a whipping. He fried his pork and
                                    threw out his grease instead of saving it, sliced the light bread, filled the cups
                                    with water and breakfast was ready. I had eaten and was lying in my bunk when I
                                    heard the "lie" passed pretty freely at the table, but I had
                                    become so accustomed to hearing this in different parts of the barrack and elsewhere
                                    without bring on a fight, that I paid no attention to it until I heard scuffling
                                    accompanied by the falling of the stove pipe. When I saw Geo. Fallis and Henry White
                                    engaged in a regular fisticuff fight, I jumped out of the bunk in time to help part
                                    them. No damage done. Fallis received a scratch on his hand. It seems they quarreled
                                    about some plates being rusty. At any rate they upset a kettle of hot water for me
                                    and frying pans, pots, etc. of other messes getting breakfast. All won quieted down.
                                    In a few hours afterwards the papers came in and I left my washtub to hear the news
                                    read. A division of Gen. Burnside's corps captured and the Federal loss in
                                    two days 8,000 men killed and wounded, with any corresponding benefit, etc,71 when all at once a crash was heard and men came running from
                                    the next room saying, "The house is falling, get out." The whole
                                    end of the barrack near us was out, so as quick as a thought we all jumped out,
                                    tumbled out and anyway to get out, some on their feet but more not. I and two or
                                    three others lit on a big iron boiler and fell off. Others lit on lumber piles, slop
                                    barrels, boxes, etc. In fact, such a getting out I 
                              
                                 71 Presumably, this refers to a portion of the
                                            Petersburg, Virginia, assault of June 15-18. Burnside was relieved of duty
                                            for mishandling troops during this battle. Grant was actually directing the
                                            battle, and Federal losses were 1,688 dead, 8,513 wounded, and 1,185
                                            captured or missing. Ibid., 107, 646, 644-46.
                           
                                     never did see. We soon found that we had been
                                    deceived by the falling of only a few planks torn down by the workmen. Then came the
                                    laugh. No damage was done except knocking down the stove pipe again, and a few
                                    skinned shins, sprained ankles, and wrists. My left foot felt very unpleasant for
                                    awhile on account of its coming in contact with a sharp edge of the big boiler
                                    rather forcibly. All was soon quiet again, and I finished washing. We drew bread for
                                    three meals for my mess of seven. I got eight loaves. The Yanks are still
                                    conscripting the men to dig ditches, level off ground, etc. We try to dodge the
                                    conscripting Yanks and can generally tell them when we see them. I have escaped
                                    entirely thus far. Hellow here come one now conscripting right and left to remove a
                                    lumber pile. Myself and several others slipped out to where the carpenters were at
                                    work and commenced picking up pieces of plank and laying them down again. I picked
                                    up a hatchet and went to hammering away on the heads of nails already driven while
                                    others held planks to be sawed, etc. as if we were doing terrible execution, when we
                                    were doing nothing, and as soon as the Yank turned his back, we all decamped, but
                                    those that were conscripted had to work till the lumber was all removed, so I have
                                    escaped once more. The evening papers say that Gen. Hancock has retired from the
                                    field on account of an old wound.72 Gold is now quoted at
                                    $2.03. This is I believe the longest day in the year.
                        Wednesday June 22d, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call thirty men were detailed
                                    from our regiment to grade the street in front of our barrack, commencing at the
                                    head of the roll all the A's B's and part of the C's were
                                    taken. At eight o'clock we fell in line and marched to the tool house where
                                    we were supplied with picks, spades, shovels, rakes, and wheelbarrows. I chose a
                                    shovel. Then we marched back and went to work. We dug a ditch or drain on each side
                                    of the street close to the barracks, and threw the dirt into the center of the
                                    street, which was then raked so as to make it in an oval shape to throw the rain off
                                    into the drains on each side of the street. The day became very warm, and we sweat
                                    freely and rested often, for none of us appeared to be hurting ourselves working. At
                                    the 12 o'clock bugle sound we were dismissed for dinner, after taking the
                                    tools back. At 2 o'clock we fell in line again and marched to the tool
                                    house and got our tools and went to work. Altho several Yanks were with us we worked
                                    very leisurely till the 6 o'clock bugle sounded, when we put our tools in
                                    the tool house and were dismissed. We did more than we 
                              
                                 72 Federal General Winfield S. Hancock received a
                                            wound at the Battle of Gettysburg, which broke out and incapacitated him
                                            during the Petersburg assault of June 17. Ibid..
                                        645.
                           
                                     expected to do. Gold is quoted at
                                    $2.35. I retired early very much fatigued.
                        Thursday June 23d, 1864. Weather pleasant. It is my day to cook and I felt stiff and
                                    sore, the effects of working yesterday. Henry Beach received by letter the bad news
                                    of the death of his mother, who died at 11 o'clock on the night of the 18th
                                    inst. Such news comes harder to a person in our situation than it would otherwise,
                                    to be so near home and not allowed to see the last remains of our friends. The day
                                    became warm and I sweat good fashion getting dinner. We still eat two meals as
                                    usual.
                        [On June 25 Burke comments on the small number of smallpox cases; he believes
                                    "the general health of the camp is increasing" (p. 309).73 The papers are stopped on this day; this is, as usual,
                                    interpreted as a sign favorable to the southern cause. The men are switching bunks
                                    again. The barracks are now all so similar that there are "some laughable
                                    mistakes occured by the men's not noticing the numbers and getting into the
                                    wrong barrack" (p. 310).]
                        Monday June 27th, 1864. Weather a little cool and windy. Time like a sweeping billow,
                                    rolls steadily on, and nothing as yet intervenes to break the dull monopoly
                                    [monotony] of our prison life. Every day nearly the same thing is repeated. Our fare
                                    is poor, mostly bread and water and a small quantity. The sutler sells butter at 65
                                    cents per lb. and other things in proportion.
                        Tuesday June 28th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We drew a loaf of light bread per man for
                                    one day. I got up on a barrack and had a view of the country. The Yanks have fixed a
                                    frame near the gate with a scantling across it edge up, and about four feet from the
                                    ground, which they made our men ride whenever the men do anything that does not
                                    please them. It is called "The mule." Men have set on it till they
                                    fainted and fell off. It is like riding a sharp top fence.
                        Wednesday June 29th, 1864. Weather pleasant. James Terpin the patrol in charge of our
                                    barrack No. 27 made us throw all the cooking utensils, boxes, bottles, old cloths
                                    etc. out in a pile, and scour up all the plates, cups, spoons, etc. and put them in
                                    our bunks. A few vinegar bottles, cigar boxes and scoured coffee pots were allowed
                                    to be kept. Nearly all of our shelves were knocked down, and we have a general clean
                                    up. Notice was given us that if any person was caught 
                              
                                 73 medical inspection report of July 24-25, 1864,
                                            states: "The camp is in excellent condition, well disciplined and
                                            policed … The change since … [April, 1864] for the
                                            better is astonishing." Official Records, Ser.
                                            II, Vol. VII, 496-98.
                           
                                     in the kitchen except the cooks and water
                                    details after today they would be punished. The kitchen for each Barrack had been
                                    partitioned off of the end of each barrack.
                        Thursday June 30, 1864. Weather cloudy with some light showers. We are all out of
                                    rations and had to go without breakfast. The kitchen is furnished with a two pound
                                    boiler and a cooking stove. Henry Elder our commissary sergeant has charge of the
                                    kitchen. The following men volunteered to cook under him. Geo. Kersey from Co. A.,
                                    Bolin [G.] Roberts from Co. B., Robert Feuston from Co. C., Ed Force from Co. D. and
                                    Gabriel Williams from squad 24. Rations for ten days were hauled to the kitchen. The
                                    first meal, a late dinner consisted of a small piece of yellow corn bread and fat
                                    pickle pork per man. We drew it through a slide window between the kitchen and the
                                    barrack, in a messes of ten, and it was then divided by the heads of the messes to
                                    suit the men. James Allen is the head of mess No. 7. The mess that I and Henry White
                                    are in, but we draw our mite together and eat it in our bunk or on the floor. My old
                                    mess have disbanded. Pa and Falles are together, Beach and Miller are together, and
                                    old Jerry Murphy is by himself. Gold is quoted at $2.50. It rained some
                                    during the day and nearly all night, with some thunder and lightening.
                        Saturday July 2d, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call every morning six men are
                                    detailed for the day. Two to bring water and cut wood for the kitchen, two to keep
                                    the barrack and street in front well swept, two to carry off the slop water. Then
                                    comes breakfast. We got light bread and pork. I notice that all of the guards on the
                                    fence have lately been furnished with a revolver each, extra.74
                                    We had several very interesting dancing sets, men with their hats off representing
                                    the ladies. The music was furnished by two fiddles and a guitar. We got corn bread,
                                    beef and pot liquor for dinner. Then the barrack was scoured out. I felt bad all
                                    day. After dark the Yanks sent up some rockets from the other square and from the
                                    city. I suppose they have commenced to celebrate the 4th, as tomorrow is Sunday.
                                        
                              
                                 74 On June 2, 1864, Sweet wrote to Hoffman complaining
                                            that a recent escape attempt was abetted by the prisoners'
                                            knowledge that the guards' rifles were
                                            "worthless." The guns had been condemned but new ones had
                                            not been supplied. The guards were given revolvers to compensate for the
                                            faulty weapons. Ibid., 187-88.
                           
                                     Sunday July 3d, 1864. Weather pleasant. We got
                                    sour hash that soured during the night and sour light bread. We have the news of
                                    Gen. Harkers death in Georgia,75 and a rumor that our Capt.
                                    Thomas Quirk was a prisoner and severely wounded at Mt. Sterling, Ky. We got corn
                                    bread and pork for dinner. As usual on Sunday evenings there was a good many
                                    citizens and ladies made their appearance on the parapet, and a crowd of prisoners
                                    collected near the sutler store to get a look at them or rather the ladies. After
                                    dark I saw some rockets and heard some promiscuous fireing of small arms. I did not
                                    rest well.
                        Monday July 4th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At day break the bells in the City commenced
                                    ringing and thirteen rounds was fired by a light piece of artillery in the Yankee
                                    square. I also heard cannon and small arms in the City. All the flags are up. At 12
                                    o'clock about thirty two rounds was fired by two small pieces in the Yankee
                                    camp or square. We had light bread, pork and hominy for dinner. There was speaking
                                    in the Yankee square and music by the band, and something going on at the Dutch
                                    garden where there is a band braying also, and last but not least races were going
                                    on, at the track southwest of us.76 A man from my regiment and
                                    two others had their heads through a hole in the roof of an empty barrack hugely
                                    enjoying the races, when a Yankee caught them, and put them in the dungeon till
                                    morning. Ten rounds were fired in the Yankee square. I heard a few small arms and
                                    firecrackers all evening. No work was done except by the details for the barracks.
                                    Some fifers belonging to the web-feet in the barrack behind us played some very
                                    lively pieces with their well handled fifes, for their own amusement. No news. A
                                    lady on the parapet yesterday took a fancy to a prisoner by the name of Derbis and
                                    sent him a basket of provisions and a bouquet today. Several sets were danced in the
                                    barrack. There is plenty of good fiddlers in the regiment. A balloon went up and got
                                    out of our sight just as the retiring bugle sounded. About dusk twenty one rounds
                                    was fired from the Yankee square and a good deal of rockets, fire crackers, etc.
                                    from both camp and city. The boys in their barrack sang Dixie Star Spangled Banner.
                        
                           
                              75 General Charles G. Harker was killed on June 27, 1864,
                                        leading his brigade in a charge at Kenesaw Mountain. Georgia. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 375.
                           
                              76 There were several race tracks at this time in Chicago.
                                        The one to which Burke refers has not been identified. From July 1-10, 1864,
                                        there was "Trotting for stakes and purses estimated at
                                        $25,000" at an unspecified location. Alfred T. Andreas, History of Chicago. From the Earliest Period to the Present
                                        Time (3 vols., Chicago, 1885). II, 614.
                        
                        
                        
                                    DIXIE STAR SPANGLED BANNER.
                                    Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light What so
                                        proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming Whose cross bars and
                                        leven stars, thro' the per-il-ous fight, O'er the breastworks
                                        we watched, were 80 gal-lent-ly streaming, And the rockets' red glare,
                                        the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof thro' the night that our flag was
                                        still there. Chorus—Oh, say, doth that cross spangled banner yet wave
                                        O'er the land of the free and the home of the slave.
                                    On the fort dimly seen, thro' the mists of the night,
                                        Where the foes' haughty host in dread si-lence re-pos-es, What is that
                                        which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fit-ful-ly blows half
                                        conceals, half dis-closes? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's
                                        first beam, In full glo-ry reflect-ed, now shines on the stream.
                                        Chorus—'Tis the cross spangled banner; oh, long may it wave
                                        O'er the land of the free and the home of the slave.
                                    And where is that band who so vaunt-ing-ly swore, That the havoc of
                                        war and the battle's confusion, A home and a country they'd
                                        leave us no more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps pol-lu-tion,
                                        No ref-uge could save the hireling and slave, From the terrors of fight, or the
                                        gloom of the grave. Chorus—And the cross spangled ban-ner in triumph
                                        shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the slave.
                                    Oh, thus be it ev-er when heroes shall stand Between their loved
                                        home and wild war's des-o-la-tion; Blest with vict'ry and
                                        peace, may the heav'n-rescued land Praise the pow'r that hath
                                        [made] and preserved us a na-tion! Then conquer we must, for our cause it is
                                        just, And this be our mot-to: "In God is our trust!"
                                        Chorus—And the cross-spangled ban-ner in triumph shall wave
                                        O'er the land of the free and the home of the slave.
                                
                        Tuesday July 5th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We had light bread and pork for breakfast.
                                    Gen. Siegal has been defeated again. This time by Gen. Ewel.77
                                    We got corn bread, beef and pot liquor for dinner. Three men from another barrack
                                    came in With a flute, banjo and a fiddle and gave us some good music for an hour or
                                    so. It is reported that a good many of the officers at headquarter's
                                    belonging to the 
                              
                                 77 On his Washington Raid, June 27-August 7, 1864,
                                            Confederate General Jubal A. Early forced Sigel to concentrats forces at
                                            Maryland Heights, near Harpers Ferry, on July 3-4. Early then crossed the
                                            Potomac River into Maryland at another location on July 5. Boatner. The Civil War Dictionary, 255. Early had taken over
                                            command of the II Corps of the Army of Northern Virginia from General
                                            Richard S. Ewell on May 29, 1864. Ibid., 180.
                           
                                     Veteran Reserve Corps alias the Invalid Corps
                                    have been promoted, and officers and men have been ordered to be in readiness to go
                                    to the front as soon as the two regiments of Illinois one hundred day men arrive to
                                    take their places as guards here.78 They do not seem to relish
                                    the idea of going to the front, and if there is any pretext by which they can keep
                                    from going, they will avail themselves of it. I felt unwell all night.
                        [The men spend the day under the barrack to escape the heat inside of it.]
                        Thursday July 7th, 1864. Weather cloudy. About sun rise it rained enough to lay the
                                    dust well, and then cleared off. We got light bread and pork for breakfast. A few
                                    daily papers are smuggled in to us nearly every day. Wilson and Cortz Yankee cavalry
                                    made a raid near Richmond, and lost 2,000 men with artillery and wagons.79 I saw an account of Sherman's terrible repulses at
                                    Kennysaw Mountain Ga.80 We got corn bread, beef and pot liquor.
                                    I have given the variety of rations we receive for a week, and do not think it
                                    necessary to continue. If we get better I will mention it, but I do not think we
                                    will. If there is any change it is more apt to be for the worse. The cooks are able
                                    and willing to give us good meals if they were furnished with better materials. The
                                    evening paper say that Gen. Ewel has crossed the Potomsrc into Maryland at Point of
                                    Rocks with 30,000 men. Gold is quoted at $2.70. Grant has not taken
                                    Petersburg, Va. nor Sherman Merietta, Ga. The Chicago convention has been postpone
                                    till the latter part of next month. I feel better.
                        Friday July 8th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I and Henry White washed twenty-three pieces
                                    of clothing. The trains belonging to Hunter and Siegal have been captured by the
                                    Confederates in Virginia.81 The U. S. ship Kersage sunk the C.
                                    S. ship Alabama in a fight near the English Channel, but Capt. Simms and most of his
                                    crew got aboard of 
                              
                                 78 In April, 1864, the governors of Ohio, Indiana,
                                            Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin worked out an agreement accepted by Lincoln to
                                            supply a certain quota of fully equipped troops for 100 days'
                                            service in order to relieve more experienced troops for combat duty. Terrell
                                            includes the proposition in his report. W. H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion (Indianapolis, 1960), 43-48.
                              
                                 79 Federal Generals James H. Wilson and August V.
                                            Kautz led their cavalry divisions in the Petersburg Raid June 22-July 1,
                                            1864. Although they suffered heavy losses, they disrupted Confederate
                                            communications in Virginia. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 931-32.
                              
                                 80 Sherman's troops were unable to dislodge a
                                            Confederate stronghold on Kenesaw Mountain in a direct attack on June 27,
                                            1864. Federal losses were heavy in the futile effort. Ibid., 452-53.
                              
                                 81 General David Hunter was defeated by Early at
                                            Lynchburg, Virginia, on June 18, 1864, and forced to retreat. This helped to
                                            make possible Early's Washington Raid. Ibid.,
                                            497.
                           
                                     an English coasting vessel, before the Kersage
                                    came up, and was taken to England, where Capt. Simms received a fine sword from his
                                        friends.82
                        
                        Sunday July 10th, 1864. Weather rainy. The bugle sounded for roll call, but before we
                                    could form the line we were dismissed on account of the rain. It soon after cleared
                                    up and the balance of the day was warm. There are heavy exchange rumors afloat. It
                                    is also rumored that five Northern States have refused to furnish any more men and
                                    money till an exchange of prisoners is affected. Jam- Hicks a comic lad in my
                                    barrack, after cutting up a good many didoes left and in five minutes I saw a Yank
                                    make him mount the wooden mule. Gold is quoted at $2.74 1/2.
                        Monday July 11th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The confederate troops are raiding in
                                    Maryland. They have burned Gov. Bradford's residence four miles from
                                    Baltimore by way of retaliation for the burning of the residence of Gov. Letcher of
                                        Virginia.83 They ah defeated Gen. Wallace and captured Brig.
                                    Gen. Tyler and 1000 prisoners. Gen. Wallace has destroyed his artillery and is
                                    retreating to Baltimore.84 All the banks in that city have put
                                    their effects on board of a boat in the bay for safety. Gen. Sherman has done
                                    nothing since his defeat at Kennysaw Mountain, Ga. Gold is quoted at
                                    $2.83.
                        Tuesday July 12th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The Confederates in Maryland have captured
                                    a good many towns and cut off the railroads and telegraph communications with
                                    Baltimore, Washington and the North. A large number of railroad bridges have been
                                    destroyed. A large mount of cattle, goods, and some eight or ten thousand horses
                                    have been collected and sent to the Confederate camps in Virginia. A good many
                                    trains have been captured. In one of them Major Gen. 
                              
                                 82 The engagement between the C. 5. S. Alabama and the
                                            U. S. S. Kearsarge took place off Cherbourg, France, in
                                            the English Channel. Captain Raphael Semmes of the Alabama
                                            and part of his crew were rescued and taken to England by the steam yacht
                                                Deerhound. The reports of Semmee and Captain John A.
                                            Winslow of the Kearsarge give details. Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the
                                                Rebellion (30 vols., Washington, 1894-1922), Ser. I, Vol. 3, pp.
                                            649-61, 69, 79-81. Hereafter cited as Official
                                            Records-Navy.
                              
                              
                                 83 In June, 1864, Union troops under Hunter moved into
                                            Lexington, Virginia, and deliberately burned the Virginia Military
                                            Institute, Governor John Letcher's home, and many other homes.
                                            After defeating Hunter at Lynchburg and moving into Maryland
                                            Early's troops burned the home of Governor Augustus W. Bradford in
                                            retaliation. F. N. Boney, John Letcher of Virginia: The Story
                                                of Virginia's Civil War Governor (University, Ala., 1966),
                                            206-208.
                              
                                 84 On July 9, 1864, General Lewis Wallace was forced
                                            by Early to retreat to Baltimore in the Battle of the Monocacy near
                                            Frederick. General Erastus B. Tyler commanded a brigade of the VIII Corps of
                                            the Middle Department. Boatner, The civil War Dictionary,
                                            256, 561-62, 192.
                           
                                     Franklin and other Yankee officers were
                                        captured.85 The pickets at the chain bridge near Washington
                                    City were run in. The papers seem to be uneasy about the capitol.
                        Wednesday July 13th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Rumors that Washington City is in the
                                    hands of the Confederates. The Confederate privateer Flordia, Capt. Maury
                                    commanding, captured five prizes off the coast of Delaware in the last two weeks.86 After the retiring bugle sounds here in the evening, the
                                    patrols are in the habit of sitting on a bench at the end of the barrack below us,
                                    so yesterday evening some of the prisoners thought that they would have some fun at
                                    the Yanks expense. They put a lot of pins in the bench and when the Yanks sat on it
                                    several of them got badly stuck. Then the whole barrack was called out in line and
                                    the guilty ones soon found. They were then made to sit on the pins all night, and
                                    work all day today.
                        Saturday July 16th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The first thing that I noticed this
                                    morning was a crowd of new prisoners in the open square with a guard around them.
                                    The most of them were still sleeping on the ground. No one was allowed to speak to
                                    them till they were drawn up in line and searched for their money, papers, etc. Then
                                    they were put in barracks. They arrived last night and number about 330. They were
                                    captured at Kennysaw Mountain, Ga. near the first of this month, and from lung
                                    fighting, digging and traveling, they are a very dirty looking set. They report that
                                    our army is in the best of spirits with plenty of eat. It rained at night.
                        [A new ruling states that anyone caught with clothes on after the retiring bugle will
                                    be put in the dungeon for the night.]
                        Monday July 18th, 1864. Weather rainy. I am one of the six detailed today, and
                                    carrying off the waste water fell to Henry Beach and myself. It is the easiest job
                                    of the detail, as there is only about five barrels to carry off. About 12
                                    o'clock 600 more prisoners arrived. They were searched and quartered in the
                                    old barracks lately moved in and not yet repaired, but the workmen are at work on
                                    them. Some of the prisoners are Morgan's men who were captured in his late
                                    raid into Kentucky and are better dressed than the rest, but the most of them came
                                    from Johnson's army in Tenn. and were captured at different 
                              
                                 85 General William B. Franklin was captured by
                                            Early's men on July 11, 1864. He was on sick leave and escaped the
                                            following night. Ibid., 303-304.
                              
                                 86 The C. S. S. Florida was
                                            commanded at this time by Lieutenant Charles Manigault Morris. For details
                                            about the prizes see Morris' report of July 13, 1864. Official Records—Navy, Ser. I, Vol. 3, pp.
                                        623-25.
                           
                                     times, and from all I can learn a good many of
                                    them did not try aa hard as they might have tried to keep from being captured.87 Frank Foushee of Lexington, Ky was among the new prisoners.
                                    He says that he belongs to Capt. Quirk's new company and that the Captain
                                    was neither wounded nor taken prisoner as reported, but that he entered Kentucky
                                    with about fifty men, part of the old company, and left the state with about one
                                    hundred men all mounted having recruited in Lexington and other places to that
                                    number. Foushee has taken quarters with us, and the men crowd around him with
                                    thousands of questions which the retiring bugle only stopped. The Yanks tried hard
                                    to catch somebody with their cloths on altho it was not yet dark when the bugle
                                    blew. I came near forgetting that I received a letter this morning from Uncle Wm. H.
                                    Burke of Canton Ohio containing a favor of ten dollars which by the way is very
                                    agreeable in a place like this. It rained some during the night.
                        Tuesday July 19th, 1864. Weather rainy. We were kept out at roll call two hours,
                                    during which time all of the men belonging to the work squad were collected together
                                    to put them in a barrack by themselves, and the places in the different barracks
                                    that they vacated were to be filled by the men whose barrack they were about to
                                    occupy, but the arrangement caused so much dissatisfaction that the order was
                                    countermanded. This is the first anniversary of my capture. One year ago today the
                                    Fourteenth Ky. cavalry with stragglers from other regiments of Morgan's
                                    command surrendered near Buffington Island Ohio. It seems almost a life time to look
                                    back over the many discomforts of the past year, and although I have lead a dull
                                    monotonous life, yet I can recall also a few comforts for which I am thankful, 1st.
                                    My general good health with generally enough to eat, and 2d. The priviledge of
                                    corresponding with friends and receiving provisions, clothing, etc. The men kept
                                    Fourshee well plied with questions all day. We have learned more from him of our
                                    interests south than from six months home correspondence. Our writing days are so
                                    far apart and we have to write and receive such short letters, that it is very
                                    little satisfaction to us to write. The Yanks make us keep the camp very clean, and
                                    are always on the alert to catch any prisoners that may break any of the many rules
                                    and regulations.
                        
                                    PRISONERS' REFRAIN.
                                    O when shall we be free again, To mount our fiery steeds? And sweep like
                                        lightening O'er the plain 
                                 
                                    87 Johnston commanded the Army of Tennessee from
                                                December 27, 1863, until July 17, 1864. Boatner, The Civil
                                                    War Dictionary, 441.
                              
                                         To fight the foe that feeds— On
                                        our fair land, and dares to face— Our cannons boom, and rifles flash!
                                        We yet will teach them ‘tie our plsce, To win the day by one bold
                                        dash. Joyful indeed will be the hour, When we march forth from here. One year,
                                        we've felt the tyrant's power. Another year, and he shall fear
                                        The vengeance of our own right arms; Nor shall his minions be— On
                                        southern soil, where spreads the cham Of life; of hope, and Liberty.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               From Then Til Now: History of McCutchanville. By Kenneth P. McCutchan.
                    (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society and McCutchanville Community Association, 1969. Pp. x,
                    259. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $3.00.)
            Anyone familiar with southwestern Indiana is aware that Van-derburgh County on the Ohio River has
                    only one city, Evansville. Yet here is a 259 page book detailing the history of suburban
                    McCutchanville in Vanderburgh County, a place so small it does not appear on road maps of Indiana.
            Ordinarily a reviewer approaches such a book with a ho-hum attitude and a sense of a duty which must
                    be performed, but in this instance he soon finds himself reliving the life of a small community and
                    becoming intently aware that even the smaller Indiana towns can have their own special and
                    delightful histories.
            McCutchan's history of his community waf his community was first published in 1955 in an
                    edition limited to 350 numbered copies, which were sold in a few months time. When he decided to
                    write a revised and enlarged second edition, the Indiana Historical Society offered to publish and
                    distribute the book to its members in the hope that "this community history will serve as a
                    guide and inspiration to citizens of other communities in the collecting, preserving, and writing of
                    their histories" (p. ii). If this volume is used as a model by historians of other small
                    towns, they will certainly have set for themselves a standard which is worthy of their best efforts.
            The author's account begins with the early settlement of McCutchanville by two Scotch-Irish
                    families in the third year of Indiana's statehood, 1819. McCutchan's story of
                    frontier life and problems is well known, but he embellishes it with interesting accounts from
                    contemporary local correspondence. Even the author's descriptions of post offices,
                    elementary and secondary schools, early diseases and cures, transportation, communication, roads,
                    churches, clubs, politics, old houses, and other miscellaneous items have a fascination which will
                    certainly impel Hoosiers of that locality to see for themselves the historic places so carefully
                    described. It takes a dedicated person with a love of his community and its history to do the
                    research necessary to produce a history of this kind. Adding to the attractions of this volume are
                    fine illustrations by Jerry Baum, an artist who makes his home in McCutchanville.
            McCutchanville is perhaps unusual among the small towns of Indiana in that it has produced a number
                    of distinguished sons and daughters. That alone should stimulate interest in this volume. Yet even a
                    good local history like this will at best arouse a limited interest, and it is unlikely that many
                    people who have never seen McCutchanville  or have any family
                    interests there will find time to read this volume. More's the pity, for this is a fine
                    presentation of the method of writing local history. If it stimulaters the writing of more community
                    histories, a well intended purpose will have been served.
            
               University of Evansville, Evansville Orville J. Jaebker
         
         
            
               Taverns and Travelers: Inns of the Early Midwest. By Paton Yoder. (Bloomington:
                    Indiana University Press, 1969. Pp. x, 246. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $6.95.)
            Of a host of agencies and institutions which figured in the great trek to and through the American
                    frontier, none is more picturesque than the tavern or inn. It is also among the most symbolic of
                    frontier features, for its tenure was as transitory as the frontier which produced it. Traveler
                    lodging places are most conspicuous on the modern landscape, but the kind of inns and taverns around
                    which Paton Yoder has designed this very readable monograph reflect an era and way of life that can
                    be recaptured only by diligent research.
            As the author states in his preface, "The origin of this institution [the inn], its
                    management as a business enterprise, the outworking of its sociological functions, its regulations
                    by agencies of state and local government, and its disintegration are the topics of this
                    book" (p. ix). The region surveyed includes the Old Northwest, the Upper South, and
                    portions of the near trans-Mississippi West; the period covered is from the early 1800s to about
                    1850.
            Viewing the frontier a concept, Yoder jumps freely from area to area and from period to period to
                    illustrate his chapter themes. In one somewhat typical paragraph (p. 107) he uses representative
                    examples from Wheeling, (West) Virginia (1806), Decatur, Alabama (ca. 1844), and Dubuque, Iowa
                    ("in the middle 1830's"). Perhaps he is over generalizing to make his
                    points, but certainly he does a creditable job of weaving in examples and bolstering the thesis that
                    the frontier is indeed a phenomenon unrestricted by time or space.
            In depicting the various facets of the frontier tavern or inn, the author draws most heavily from
                    contemporary traveler accounts; his research into this valuable source is obviously prodigious. He
                    also makes extensive use of reminiscences, legislative and court records, travel guides, newspapers,
                    and secondary accounts. Contemporary tavern records, he concedes, yield only limited data (p. 235).
            In addition to tracing the developments of an intriguing feature of American social history, the
                    author has unearthed some topics which may be deserving of further serious study. For example, what
                    role did taverns play in the establishment of major transportation  routes and ultimate location of towns and cities? Considering the
                    rigors and low profit margin implicit in the enterprise, why were so many persons engaged in tavern
                    keeping? Why—and this may be a question for the social psychologist—did early
                    travelers "put up" at taverns when accommodations at many of them were decidedly
                    worse than their own traveling conveyances or the open night air? Exactly who were the
                    "wagoners" who patronized the taverns in such large numbers, and just how
                    significant was their part in the prerailroad transportational pattern of America?
            Perhaps the widest use of Taverns and Travelers will be as a bountiful source of
                    colorful anecdotes. (Example: "A taverner in Tennessee in the 1830's assured his
                    guest that the only previous occupant using the present linen had been ‘governor Polk,
                    and he had merely lain down on the bed without taking his clothes off,’" pp.
                    151-52.) Most certainly this book deserves a place on student reading lists at both the college and
                    high school levels.
            
               Indiana University, Kokomo Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               Diary of Howard Stillwell Stanfield: Overland Trip from Indiana to California, 186 4
                        via Virginia City, Montana Territory and Sea Voyage from San Francisco to New York, 1865 via
                        Panama. Edited by Jack J. Detzler. Indiana University Social Science
                    Series, Number 25. (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 232. Illustrations,
                    maps, bibliographical notes, bibliography, appendices, notes, index. Paperbound, $6.75.)
            In the spring of 1864 young Howard Stanfield began a great adventure. An epileptic, plagued by
                    general poor health, Stanfield was unable to join the army, and apparently in compensation, his
                    father permitted him to go west. Stanfield set out from South Bend, Indiana, with an acquaintance
                    and eventually joined other emigrants from his home town. This group followed the north bank of the
                    Platte River as far as Fort Laramie, and then guided by John M. Jacobs, who had helped blaze the
                    Bozeman Trail, followed a new road to the west of the Big Horn Mountains which was just being opened
                    by Jim Bridger. The uneventful passage brought them to Virginia City, Montana, which Stanfield found
                    a "dreadful dirty place." It was a "port which I hope never to see
                    again" (p. 73), he noted, as he departed in a makeshift stagecoach for Salt Lake City and
                    eventually California.
            Stanfield enjoyed his stay with relatives in California and even did some placer mining, but in the
                    spring of 1865 he decided to return home via Central America. Thousands of people had made similar
                         journeys before, but Stanfield discovered that conditions
                    in steerage class apparently had improved little over the years. The ship was overcrowded and food
                    was terrible. The salt pork was rotten, and Stanfield complained: "If I had a dog that
                    would eat such trash I would shoot him and here I have to do it or starve" (p. 114). At
                    times drinking water was condensed from the steam of greasy machinery while on another occasion it
                    consisted of water, sand, and "wiggle tails" which had to be strained between the
                    teeth before it was swallowed. "I suppose this could truly be called living
                    waters," he commented, "although I doubt if it be the kind to which David refers
                    in his psalm for he would not have sang so sweetly of it" (p. 127). Despite such
                    disagreeable conditions, Stanfield survived and returned safely to South Bend.
            Although the Stanfield diary includes some graphic descriptions of the West, it lacks the color,
                    detail, or significance of reports by travelers such as J. Ross Browne or Samuel Bowles. It has the
                    flavor of a tourist's journal, which indeed it was, and there is no indication of any
                    awareness of the Indian situation on the plains and only a brief hint of tensions between the
                    Mormons at Salt Lake City and the troops stationed in nearby Camp Douglas. Despite shallow
                    descriptions and lack of analysis the document is of some interest, for there are relatively few
                    published diaries of overland travel during the Civil War. It is augmented by valuable supplementary
                    material supplied by Jack J. Detzler who thoroughly searched for published and unpublished
                    contemporary journals. The excellent bibliographical notes include the editor's evaluation
                    of this material and help place the Stanfield diary in historical perspective.
            
               University of New Mexico, Albuquerque Richard N. Ellis
         
         
            
               Maurice Thompson: Archer and Author. By George A. Schumacher. (New York: Vantage
                    Press, 1968. Pp. 205. Illustrations. $3.95.)
            The author of this book has apparently succumbed bo a very familiar impulse. A manuscript that has
                    been lying around for many years, waiting to be rewritten and worked up to date, has had nothing
                    done to it. So the author just up and publishes it the way it is to get the thing off his hands.
                    Lovers of Indiana lore cannot entirely regret that this material has been made available, for it is
                    basically primary and valuable stuff. But the book illustrates in almost every imaginable way why
                    such an impulse must be resisted.
            The author makes no pretense of professionalism, either in scholarship or style. His
                    sources—letters, newspapers, court records 
                    —are quoted at great length without being very much integrated into any narrative or
                    expository framework. There are no notes, no bibliography, and often no inkling of where a source is
                    to be found. There is no index and no word from author to reader. The book is urgently in need of
                    editorial advice and revision. Perhaps even more distressing is the author's failure even
                    to mention other people's work on his subject, particularly Otis B. Wheeler's
                    recent The Literary Career of Maurice Thompson (1965). The amateur writer may be
                    permitted such omissions, but the unfortunate thing here is that this subject has many dimensions
                    that this book ignores. Maurice Thompson is not revealed in this book, except in very interesting
                    bits and pieces. In other words, here is raw material that is far from negligible, but is also far
                    from making a respectable "latest word" on its subject.
            
               Wabash College, Crawfordaville Walter L. Fertig
         
         
            
               Schools for an Urban Society. By Donald W. Disbrow. A History of
                        Education in Michigan, Volume III. (Lansing: Michigan Historical Commission, 1968. Pp. xiv,
                    337. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            This is the third volume of a series on the history of education in Michigan. Earlier volumes were
                    entitled Education in the Wilderness and The Michigan Search for Educational
                    Standards. The present volume examines the effects of a rapidly expanding urban-industrial
                    complex upon the schools in Michigan in the period from 1908-1964. The approach makes this a book of
                    more than provincial scope. The story is the story of education in Michigan. The generalizations,
                    however, could be meaningful ones about the interactions of school and society anywhere in this
                    country.
            Disbrow begins by examining the Progressive Era in 1908, which was characterized by increased federal
                    regulation and broader popular participation in the operation of government. He describes events in
                    sufficient detail to provide a meaningful understanding of each particular era. There is a detailed
                    description of the development of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools
                    from the activities of the Michigan Schoolmasters Club. He examines the changes in the professional
                    perceptions of educators which were produced by pedagogical reforms. The stormy history of the
                    accreditation movement, which was concerned with the physical facilities and organizational
                    practices that might affect the flow of good students into the colleges and universities, is
                    described in detail. The complicated battles over consolidation of rural schools is described by
                    drawing  upon the memoirs of an early Michigan superintendent.
                    The narrative on the development of public education in Detroit is an extremely useful case history.
                    The descriptions of the impacts of the two world wars upon education are the familiar stories of
                    shifts toward military training, physical fitness, patriotic exercises, and the deliberate
                    distortions of contemporary history. Disbrow describes the experiences of some of the mom forceful
                    state superintendents which exhibit the continuing problems of political control, financing, growth
                    in student population, and the increasing ethnic diversity of students, which climax in the grave
                    issues of racial integration.
            This narrative provides case histories on the additional problems associated with adult education,
                    the role of the nonpublic schools, the dubious effects of organized athletics, religious education,
                    the impacts of major federal interventions and foundations' support, teacher tenure,
                    vocational education, education for the handicapped, the "expanding curriculum,"
                    and the whole complex of miseries which are collected under the label of urban education.
            This well written history is valuable because of the author's comprehensive treatment of
                    these many concerns. He chooses the kind of detailed information which can stimulate comparative
                    thinking rather than merely provide for anecdotal recall.
            There are a small number of typographical errors and faulty grammatical constructions in the book
                    which suggest careless proofreading. These are minor defects which are hardly worth mentioning
                    alongside the many merits of this book. Here is an excellent example of the proper use of history
                    and a justification for detailed local histories if they provide material that can be used to
                    improve an understanding of the relationships between events and ideas and between the present
                    challenges and hopes for the future.
            
               Indianapolis Public Schools Alexander M. Moore
         
         
            Immigrants and Politics: The Germans of Nebraska, 1880-1900. By Frederick C. Luebke. (Lincoln:
                    University of Nebraska Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 220. Notes, maps, tables, figures, illustrations,
                    appendices, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            Professor Luebke presents an interesting analysis of the political behavior among German immigrants
                    who constituted the largest non-English speaking ethnic group in Nebraska. The first territorial
                    census in 1854 recorded seventeen German families. Thereafter, each year Germans followed the trail
                    to Nebraska. Some came directly from Europe. Others who had been farmers in older and more densely
                    populated states left these areas when they wished to add to their  holdings because the price for additional land was prohibitive.
                    Nebraska, therefore, where land was more reasonable and the taxes were lower, attracted many German
                    immigrants. Likewise, railroads, colonization companies, state and local agencies, churches, and
                    private individuals aided in luring settlers to the state.
            The Germans in Nebraska belonged to the lower middle class and were literate but not well educated.
                    Craftsmen and merchants were numerous, but the majority were farmers. Their speech, clothes, and
                    mannerisms differed from the native American. Consequently, they conformed to the norms and
                    attitudes of their ethnic group. This presented a problem to the politician which could not be
                    ignored.
            Upon his arrival in America the German immigrant frequently chose the Republican party because of its
                    reputation as the opponent of slavery and the preserver of the Union. Later, however, as he became
                    more involved in politics he discovered the Democratic party was the friend of the immigrant. In
                    this study church membership proved to be the best clue to the immigrant's choice of a
                    political party.
            During the 1880s when prohibition, women's suffrage, and Sabbatarian legislation were the
                    chief issues, the Germans indicated a preference for the Democratic party. They foresaw
                    women's suffrage as a device to obtain the passage of a prohibition amendment. Schulfreiheit and prohibition were the only issues which interested the Germans in 1890.
                    An effort was made for their vote on the basis of "personal liberty." Populists,
                    however, were unsuccessful in their campaign for the German vote. A direct appeal to the German
                    element occurred in the Nebraska election of 1900 in which one of the major candidates for governor
                    was of German ancestry.
            The author states that the most reliable method of determining concentrations of Germans is through
                    the use of the census. He uses the published federal census reports and schedules of the Nebraska
                    state census of 1885, but fails to consult the original census returns, 1870-1900, which contain
                    much detailed information. As evidenced by the footnotes there is heavy reliance for much of his
                    information on unpublished theses and dissertations.
            Among other omissions are the Burlington Archives in the New-berry Library, the Frederick Jackson
                    Turner articles on German immigration in the Chicago Record-Herald, William
                    Godfrey Bek's translation of Gottfried Duden's, letters published in the Missouri Historical Review, and reports on emigration and immigration in House Executive Documents and Senate Documents.
            
            Anyone, however, interested in German immigration and the history of Nebraska will find the book
                    worthwhile.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Elfrieda Lang
         
         
         
            
               Robert Todd Lincoln: A Man in His Own Right. By John S. Goff. (Norman:
                    University of Oklahoma Press, 1969. Pp. xv, 286. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Goff's volume is a biography of the eldest and the only surviving child of Abraham and Mary
                    (Todd) Lincoln. Born in Springfield, Illinois, in 1843, his boyhood years were those during which
                    his father rose from a little known lawyer in Illinois to national importance. His parents made
                    every effort to give Robert the education his father had missed. After attending the Springfield
                    schools he was sent to Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. In 1859 he entered Harvard carrying
                    a note of introduction to the president from Stephen A. Douglas who presented the young man as the
                    son of his friend Abraham Lincoln "with whom I have lately been canvassing the State of
                    Illinois" (p. 24). After graduating in 1864 he spent four months in Harvard Law School but
                    left when he was given an appointment on the staff of General Ulysses S. Grant. In 1868 he married
                    Mary Harlan the daughter of Senator James Harlan of Iowa. Their only son Abraham died at the age of
                    sixteen but two daughters survived him.
            After leaving the army Lincoln studied law in Chicago and was admitted to the bar in 1867. He gained
                    profitable clients among railroad and corporate interests, and his name appears as a charter member
                    of the Chicago Bar Association in 1874. His name was often used by Republican politicians, but
                    generally he remained aloof. Under James A. Garfield he served a term as secretary of war uneventful
                    except for the Grant retirement controversy and the perennial case of General Fitz-John Porter. In
                    1889 he was sent to London by President Benjamin Harrison as minister.
            During the twenty years after he returned from England, Lincoln continued his work as counsel for
                    great business interests and in semiseclusion upon which he would permit no intrusion. Among his
                    chief clients was the Pullman Company; and when the founder George M. Pullman died in 1897, Lincoln
                    became its active executive and then its president. In 1911 his health forced him to resign the
                    presidency though he retained the position of chairman of the board of directors. In 1912 he moved
                    to Washington, D. C., where he remained almost unknown until his death in 1926. His
                    father's papers, which John Hay and John G. Nicolay had worked over in the eighties,
                    remained in his possession until near the end of his life when he deposited them in the Library of
                    Congress to be sealed for twenty-one years after his death.
            In traditional American materialistic terms Robert Todd Lincoln's life measures up to one of
                    great accomplishment. His life also  records great tragedy. His
                    father was assassinated; his mother was mentally ill for years; his own son died as he approached
                    manhood; and rumors persisted for years that his marriage to Mary Harlan was subject to more than
                    the usual difficulties.
            Generally historians have all but ignored Robert in dealing with Abraham Lincoln. Many have found it
                    impossible to reconcile a millionaire lawyer and businessman of decidedly conservative views with
                    his father's humanity in the emancipation of the slaves. Thus arises Goff's claim
                    that only now has Robert Todd Lincoln found a biographer of his own. This reviewer shares the
                    author's doubts that in spite of the chosen title "Robert T. Lincoln could never
                    be clearly and freely a man in his own right" (p. 265).
            
               Purdue University, Lafayette Paul E. Million, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Canadian Frontier, 1534-1760. By W. J. Eccles. Histories of the
                        American Frontier. Edited by Ray Allen Billington. (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston,
                    1969. Pp. xv, 234. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliographical notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $4.95.)
            This is a superb history, one written by a historian for historians. It is seldom colorful reading,
                    nor is it exciting; but these are not euphemisms by which a reviewer attempts to avoid damning a
                    book as dull, for it is scarcely that either. Rather, Professor Eccles' work will prove to
                    be heavy going for the less rigorous minded cowboys and Indians set which inhabits the fringes
                    (happily, less frequently each day) of the general field of the history of the North American West.
                    The old heroes are vanquished, the old values are set aside, the dramatic but cosy conclusions of
                    Francis Parkman are successfully challenged, and the reader is left with a story, and with
                    conclusions, which run counter to much that remains stated in textbooks with the certitude of which
                    only such books are capable.
            Not that Eccles' conclusions here are new to the historian of Canada, or of New France; for
                    Eccles has stated them before, in his earlier study, just ten years ago, of Louis Count de
                    Frontenac, and more recently in his volume in the Canadian Centenary Series, Canada
                        under Louis XIV. Western buffs are unlikely to have read these two books, however, as
                    convincing and important as they were; and it is now, with this concise, closely argued,
                    contribution to Ray Billington's Histories of the American Frontier
                    series that Eccles will reach the wider audience. Of the seven books which have appeared to date in
                    this series, this is the only one relating to Canada directly (although Jack Sosin's Revolutionary Frontier contains much of Canadian significance), and it is the only
                    one to offer widely significant new con-  clusions, in the sense
                    that the historiography of two nations rather than just one must now change.
            The author is concerned primarily with the social and economic realities of the fur trade, with the
                    effect of those realities on both the colony and France, and with the ways in which French and
                    British adaptations to an alien environment differed from adaptations to the south. The nature of
                    the trade itself, the role played by Indians and by misconceived "Indian
                    Diplomacy" in the European capitals, and the position of the church are among the subjects
                    examined in the light of extensive original research in archives, largely French and Canadian.
                    Eccles is not afraid to put value judgments of his own in the place of those of Parkman, but he
                    documents them with care, and in an enlightening bibliographical essay he cites reasons for
                    dismissing conclusions held by others. The buffs will not be happy; but, if they stay to the end,
                    they will join with the professionals in an important reassessment of the making of the North
                    American continent.
            
               American Embassy, London Robin W. Winks
         
         
            
               Pastmasters: Some Essays on American Historians. Edited by Marcus Cunliffe and
                    Robin W. Winks. (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1969. Pp. xv, 492. Appendix (notes and
                    selected publications), index. $10.00.)
            Pastmasters is a mixture of the quick and the dead. The volume contains separate essays on thirteen
                    American historians, six of whom are no longer living, one retired but active, and six now in the
                    prime as producing scholars. To each had been assigned a separate critic, although two of the
                    critics—Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. and David Potter—are also among those
                    selected by editors Marcus Cunliffe and Robin W. Winks as subjects for essays.
            Selections have been rather arbitrary although none will doubt the distinguished character of each.
                    The list of the deceased contains Francis Parkman, Henry Adams, Frederick Jackson Turner, Charles A.
                    Beard, Vernon Louis Parrington, and Perry Miller. The fact that the last two on this list were
                    practicing scholars in the fields of American literature does not belie the fact that they were as
                    much concerned with history as with literature, and it shows good judgment on the part of the
                    editors to have included them—even at the cost of not including such illustrious American
                    historians as George Bancroft, James Ford Rhodes, John B. MacMaster, William E. Dodd, and Walter
                    Prescott Webb.
            Mae glaring is the failure to include essays on such living historians as Samuel Eliot Morison, Allan
                    Nevins, and Merle Curti  among those selected: Samuel Flagg
                    Bemis, Daniel J. Boorstin, Oscar Handlin, Richard Hofstadter, Potter, Schlesinger, and C. Vann
                    Woodward.
            The prevailing character and tenor of the essays are, on the whole, critical and penetrating, but
                    there are exceptions. Perhaps the best two essays, from the standpoint of being a presentation of
                    well rounded, thoughtful, and constructive evaluations of their subjects, are Howard R.
                    Lamar's essay on Turner and Ralph H. Gabriel's on Parrington. One of the most
                    devastating contributions to this volume—but one displaying a sort of "I slew
                    the dragon attitude"—is Forrest McDonald's essay on Beard. Sir Denis
                    Brogan's treatment of Potter is, in this reviewer's opinion, no match for
                    Potter's analysis of Woodward.
            The fact that some in this galaxy of American historians do not escape severe criticism does not mean
                    that their long run influence was in any sense nil. If the critics appear to agree on one thing, it
                    is that even though the respective theories or philosophies of history may wilt in the bright light
                    of retrospective criticism, such historians as Adams, Turner, Beard, and Parrington made their most
                    lasting contributions by opening new doors and demonstrating new approaches to the historical
                    profession. Taken as a whole, this volume is a valuable contribution to American historiography.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               Country Music, U.S.A.: A Fifty-Year History. By Bill C. Malone. American
                    Folklore Society, Memoir Series, Volume 54. Edited by John Green way. (Austin: The University of
                    Texas Press, for the American Folklore Society, 1968. Pp. xii, 422. Notes, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            With the ever increasing interest in country music both here and abroad (few people in the United
                    States are aware of the extreme popularity of this music in such widespread areas as Japan, Sweden,
                    New Zealand and Australia, West Africa, the U.S.S.R., and a number of the Soviet satellites)
                    citizens of the United States should welcome this first major work on a musical phenomenon which is
                    so much a part of their cultural history. The author's purpose, as stated in his preface,
                    is to "give a general, chronological account of the development of American country music
                    from its commercial founding in the 1920's to its present big-business status" (p.
                    viii). Given this determination, there is little to criticize.
            Beginning with its folk background, Malone shows how country music passed through a period of
                    relative obscurity to become na-  tionally popular. The success
                    pattern, which parallels the rise of other American musics—minstrel music, ragtime, jazz,
                    rock and roll, rhythm and blues, and soul music—is all too familiar: a
                    "folk" music with limited appeal accumulates stereotypic elements, a star
                    performer is added, an entrepreneur publicizes his client via the mass media, and the original
                    product changes in character and becomes a highly marketable commodity.
            To this reviewer Malone's work is not so much an in depth or perceptive socioeconomic
                    historical document as it is an important reference work highlighting the performers, entrepreneurs,
                    scholars, events, and forces of history which have played a major role in the rise and dissemination
                    of the music. An excellent bibliography-discography, a detailed general index, and an index of song
                    titles all help in locating references in the main body of the work. Photoreproductions of the
                    outstanding performers in the history of the music add an extra dimension to the literary
                    documentation.
            Malone's definition of country music is interesting, and it may serve to crystallize the
                    terminology used in referring to this music. For many years only the devotees and some performers
                    and writers could describe the essential qualities of such styles or genres as hillbilly, old
                    time(y), string band, bluegrass, western swing, and country western music; these terms will
                    undoubtedly continue to be used by many purists, performers, and academicians. Malone includes all
                    these styles under the general term country music, defined as a commercialized music which
                    "developed out of the folk culture of the rural South … created and disseminated
                    largely by rural dwellers [only a generation or less away from a farm background] within the
                    mainstream of the white Protestant Anglo-Celtic tradition" (p. viii).
            
               Country Music, U.S.A. is an important scholarly work documenting a part of
                    America's rich musical heritage. This reviewer hopes that it serves to give academic status
                    and respectability to the study of other forms of American music.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Frank J. Gillis
         
         
            
               Blueprint for Modern America: Nonmilitary Legislation of the First Civil War
                        Congress. By Leonard P. Curry. (Nashville: Vanderbilt University Press, 1968. Pp. ix, 302.
                    Notes, appendices, bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            To find a book with such an unprepossessing title and subject informative is not unusual; to find it
                    interesting is rare. Curry's description of the Thirty-Seventh Congress of the United
                    States (1861-1863) and the nonmilitary legislation it considered is both. The  strength of the volume lies in its distillation from personal papers,
                    newspapers, and, particularly, the Congressional Record, of the
                    legislature's actions in regard to slavery, the Negro, public lands, transportation,
                    taxation, banking, and currency. The work's interest stems primarily from the
                    author's ability to write.
            Despite the book's value and appeal, questions concerning it begin with the title.
                    Curry's definitions of blueprint and modern Amerca are not those of this reviewer. While-as
                    the publisher's news release states—the Thirty-Seventh Congress may have
                    "established the framework for many of our contemporary national attitudes, practices, and
                    problems," a framework is not precisely a blueprint. Furthermore, the author himself says
                    that "no historian in full possession of his faculties would suggest that the history of
                    the early years of the Civil War present us with any specific guidelines for solving the problems of
                    the present" (p. 6). Throughout the text Curry suggests that the blueprint prepared by the
                    first Civil War Congress would be followed "for the remainder of the century" (p.
                    180), during "the Gilded Age" (p. 148), or in "the decades following the
                    Civil War" (p. 99). Undoubtedly he is correct, but such is hardly modern America.
            Almost every state historian will quibble with Curry's inclusion of various politicians in
                    the categories of radical, moderate, and conservative. Hoosiers may wonder, for example, that Daniel
                    W. Voorhees is not considered an ultraconservative. And exactly what is a Unionist, as Joseph A.
                    Wright is called? The author realizes the limitations of such labels as ultraconservative and
                    advanced moderate; indeed, he so hedges his own classifications that he makes them somewhat
                    meaningless. Yet, for a work of this kind some vehicle for handling opinions, attitudes, and votes
                    is necessary; and, with Curry's qualifications, his categories serve as well as any.
            There are a number of additional problems. In considering the Homestead Act Curry seems overly severe
                    on a Congress which, in 1862, "fostered the illusion that the United States was a nation of
                    sturdy, independent yeoman farmers …" (p. 248). Only in the introduction does
                    the author draw the parallels between the 1860s and 1960s which the reader is led to expect
                    throughout the book. Chapters 9 and 10, discussing the move toward congressional dominance of the
                    government, are less satisfactory than the rest. Curry's analysis of the voting records
                    merely whets the appetite: one would like to know why certain legislators voted as they did.
            But none of the preceding points negates the value of the book. Curry's work is scholarly,
                    comprehensive, and interesting. For state and regional historians particularly it provides the
                    "other side" of issues discussed in general assemblies, local newspapers, and
                    state  political meetings. As reviewers are wont to say, this
                    volume is a valuable contribution to the history of the Civil War period.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Lorna Lutes Sylvester
         
         
            
               The Australian Ballot: The Story of an American Reform. By L. E. Fredman. ([East
                    Lansing]: Michigan State University Press, 1968. Pp. xii, 150. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.75.)
            In this slender volume Professor L. E. Fredman of Newcastle University discusses early American
                    election abuses and the development of the political reform known as the "Australian
                    Ballot." Basing his study on a wide variety of primary sources and secondary works, the
                    author has distilled the material to produce a succinct but interesting and informative account. He
                    traces election practices from the old open ballot system with its accompanying violence and
                    intimidation. For example, in an early San Francsco party primary, "Knives were drawn and
                    freely used, revolvers discharged with a perfect recklessness. … The police had they
                    interfered would have stood a chance of being annihilated" (p. 20). By the later decades of
                    the nineteenth century most responsible Americans, seeking a workable reform in the ballot system,
                    became interested in the method pioneered by Australia and adopted by Great Britain in the 1870s.
            Persons as dissimilar as Henry George, E. L. Godkin, Richard Henry Dana, Ignatius Donnelly, and
                    Grover Cleveland supported the Australian ballot and urged its adoption. The reform found a
                    prominent place in the demands of the Mugwumps of the eighties, the Populists of the nineties, and
                    the Progressives in the twentieth century. Basically the Australian ballot included four features:
                    "The ballots were printed and distributed at public expense … They contained the
                    names of all the candidates duly nominated by law … They were distributed only by the
                    election officers at the polling place … There were … arrangements to ensure
                    secrecy in casting the vote" (p. 46).
            Fredman discusses the passage of the Australian ballot in Massachusetts and New York, the first
                    states to adopt the reform, in some detail. To provide some balance he then traces the reform in
                    California in the far West, and in Louisiana in the South. In California the form of the ballot
                    encouraged "independency." In Louisiana the new election laws reflected the
                    religious differences, widespread poverty, and the racial preoccupations of the state. Other
                    reforms, such as the direct primary, corrupt practices legislation, and preferential voting are all
                    based on the Australian ballot.
            No claim is made that the widespread adoption of the Australian ballot has ended corruption. In many
                    places its success is still ob-  structed by political machines.
                    But as Fredman concludes, "the will of the people is the basis of the authority of the
                    government" (p. 134). Essential to this concept is a truly secret ballot.
            
               Stephen F. Austin State University, Nacoydoches, Texas Robert S.
                Maxwell
         
         
            
               Journal of a Tour in Unsettled Parts of North America in 1796 & 1797. By
                    Francis Baily. Edited by Jack D. L. Holmes. Travels on the Western Waters. Edited
                    by John Francis McDermott. (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University, 1969. Pp. xxvi, 336.
                    Illustrations, notes, sources consulted, index. $15.00.)
            The years following independence attracted a steady stream of distinguished visitors to North
                    America. Drawn by an insatiable curiosity about the newly created states, they came from all parts
                    of the world to witness the drama of a nation taking shape. Beginning with the Marquis de Chastellux
                    from France and the Venezuelan Francisco de Miranda, the group included the Englishman Richard
                    Parkinson, the illustrious German Baron von Humboldt, and a host of others. Admittedly a few of the
                    observers were highly critical of the raw societies, lack of conveniences, and other phases of life
                    in America, but all were fascinated by the wilderness of the west. Many of the visitors kept
                    journals or diaries in which they recorded personal experiences and impressions of people whom they
                    met and areas through which they passed. Although varying greatly in objectivity, these written
                    travel accounts remain one of the best sources for that period of American history.
            One of the most spectacular trek through the early republic was that made by a young Englishman,
                    Francis Baily. Baily, well known for his later scientific contributions, particularly in the field
                    of astronomy, began his tour of North America at the age of twenty-one for reasons not entirely
                    clear. He arrived in Norfolk, Virginia, in February, 1796, after violent weather had diverted his
                    ship to the West Indies and rendered it unseaworthy. The stormy crossing was an omen of things to
                    come. For the next two years Baily explored the east coast, floated down the Ohio and Mississippi
                    rivers, and ultimately worked his way back east to New York via Knoxville. It was an incredible
                    journey. Pitted against the wilderness, faced with unpredictable and cruel extremes of weather, the
                    young Englishman tasted more adventure in those few months than most men experience in a lifetime.
                    Nor did Baily's departure from New York in January, 1798, end his series of trials. Taken
                    into custody as a prisoner of war by a French privateer, he was finally released and arrived home in
                         England in March. Fortunately for posterity, Baily
                    carefully recorded his remarkable experiences in an exciting and informative journal.
            For more than fifty years this important document lay buried and forgotten among the personal papers
                    of the astronomer during which time portions of it were lost. When finally published in 1856, twelve
                    years after Baily's death, the Journal was used primarily to illuminate
                    an unsuspected facet of his life. Curiously it did not command the attention it warranted as an
                    historical document. Nor is it clear why Reuben Thwaites did not judge this tour of sufficient
                    importance for inclusion in his monumental Early Western Travels, 1748-1846,
                    published shortly after the turn of the present century. For these reasons the decision to include
                    this significant account of early America in the new series Travels on the Western
                        Waters is commendable.
            The Journal benefits from the deft editing of Professor Jack Holmes. Beginning with
                    an interesting and suggestive introduction which reviews the life of Baily, Holmes proceeds to
                    divide the Journal into ten chapters that deal with different portions of the
                    journey. Although arbitrary, the divisions give balance to the narrative. In addition, the text is
                    supported by copious footnotes which provide careful identifications and scholarly speculations when
                    precise answers are lacking. The minor errors which normally characterize works of this sort are at
                    a minimum. For these and other reasons this handsome publication will take its place among the
                    important accounts of the early republic.
            
               Miami University, Oxford, O. Richard M. Jellison
         
         
            
               Heir to Empire: United States Economic Diplomacy, 1916-1923. By Carl P. Parrini.
                    (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1969. Pp. x, 303. Notes, glossary, bibliography, index.
                    $8.95.)
            Diplomatic historians have given most of their efforts to studies of crises and decisions of a
                    political nature; they have seldom given much attention to the often unglamorous diplomacy of
                    commerce and finance. Parrini is one of the few scholars of recent years to concentrate upon the
                    economic diplomacy of the World War I era, and the result is a book explaining several important
                    developments which receive little comment in most general histories of the period. The economic
                    views of the late Charles A. Beard have influenced Parrini, and he acknowledges large indebtedness
                    to William Appleman Williams. Like Beard and Williams, Parrini is a revisionist and an economic
                    determinist, but it is unlikely that he will receive much criticism from opponents of his points of
                    view, He does little interpreting;  instead he devotes most of
                    his efforts to telling a difficult story which has never been satisfactorily told before.
            Parrini regards the Paris Economic Conference of 1916 as one of the more important events of World
                    War I. At this conference the Allies planned to substitute a system of trade preferences for the
                    most favored nation system which had largely governed European trade from 1870 to 1914. American
                    business and governmental leaders saw in the Allied plans threats to the foreign trade of the United
                    States. While the threat of European discrimination against American trade lessened s~6 the economic
                    problems of the Allies increased, American business leaders convinced themselves that expansion of
                    their commercial and banking interests abroad was absolutely necessary for the continued economic
                    health of the United States. The Woodrow Wilson administration agreed with them and supported
                    changes in the antitrust laws to permit cooperation of business and banking interests in foreign
                    ventures. The Wilson administration at times seemed to be advancing ideas for a world economic
                    community with almost as much persistence as it urged a world political organization. In
                    international economic policy there was little change when Warren G. Harding succeeded Wilson.
                    Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes and Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover continued the
                    policy of trying to build a world economic community with a commanding place for the United States.
                    As they concerned themselves with war debts, tariffs, and foreign trade, they thought in almost
                    Wilsonian terms.
            Parrini bases his study on unpublished documents of the State and Commerce departments and the papers
                    of Hughes, Henry L. Stimson, and Frank A. Vanderlip, and he has done extensive work in published
                    materials. It does seem unfortunate, however, that he did not consult the unpublished papers of more
                    statesmen. When he deals with the thinking of the Wilson and Harding administrations, he is often
                    vague and unconvincing, and the limitations of his research may be the reason for this
                    unsatisfactory aspect of his book. Even so, this book adds to the knowledge of a part of
                    international relations, the importance of which is usually recognized but rarely explained, and it
                    suggests areas for further research and writing.
            
               Duke University, Durham Calvin D. Davis
         
         
            
               The War to End All Wars: The American Military Experience in World War I. By
                    Edward M. Coffman. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1968. Pp. xvi, 412. Maps, illustrations,
                    essay on sources, index. $9.75.)
            
            Edward M. Coffman's new book may well be the best single volume on American participation in
                    World War I. "Too often," he states in the preface, "military history has
                    been merely a recounting and analysis of battles. Yet, the military experience includes much
                    more" (p. vii). While Coffman does write about Belleau Wood, the Argonne, and other
                    battles, he gives a much wider focus to military history. He is concerned with the glamor of the air
                    war, Private X's reaction to his first manual of arms, the songs of the American
                    Expeditionary Force, the drudgery of destroyer patrols in the North Sea, the treatment of Negro
                    soldiers and conscientious objectors, the workings of selective service, the way in which the War
                    Department coped with industrial mobilization—all levels of "the military
                    experience" from grand strategy to camp sanitation. Although the story of
                    America's contribution to military victory is a familiar one (and the author has told much
                    of it before in his excellent biography of General Peyton C. March), Coffman brings special talents
                    to his task. He can explain complex matters in a few sharp paragraphs, illuminate technical
                    discussions with personal vignettes, and use statistics to clarify rather than confuse. Above all,
                    Coffman writes very well. Once in paperback, his book should become standard reading in twentieth
                    century American history courses.
            While he would be the first to point out that much work is still to be done, Coffman has researched
                    his subject extensively, if not exhaustively. His thirty-two page "essay on
                    sources" is the best available guide to World War I literature and should provide students
                    of the period with numerous hints for further research. What is especially appealing is the way
                    Coffman "digs" beneath the usual sources, interviewing scores of World War I
                    veterans, and uncovering materials (such as the Hugh A. Drum Papers) which other scholars did not
                    know existed.
            The Oxford University Press has provided the book with an attractive format, which includes several
                    maps and eight pages of excellent photographs. The text is remarkably free of errors (although at
                    one point [p. 47] the author does confuse RM H. Bacon with his father, Robert Bacon, former
                    secretary of state and ambassador to France).
            If the reviewer may indulge himself, there is one incident recounted by Coffman that seems to capture
                    much of what was uniquely American in the World War I experience. The question concerned the
                    AEF's handling of venereal disease. In keeping with Progressive morality, the Army
                    attempted to discourage vice by court-martialling soldiers who contracted the disease. Premier
                    Georges Clemenceau of France objected to this repressive policy and suggested to General John J.
                    Pershing that licensed houses of prostitution be established  as
                    an alternative. A copy of Clemenceau's letter reached Washington where Secretary of War
                    Newton D. Baker discussed it with the Director of Training Camp Activities, Raymond B. Fosdick.
                    "For God's sake, Raymond," Baker exclaimed after reading it twice,
                    "don't show this to the President or he'll stop the war" (p.
                    133). It was indeed "the war to end all wars."
            
               University of Connecticut, Storrs John Garry Clifford
         
         
            
               American Railroad Politics, 19141920: Rates, Wages, and Efficiency. By
                    K. Austin Kerr. ([Pittsburgh]: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1968. Pp. viii, 250. Notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $7.95.)
            The proposition of this book is that historians have loosely tended to regard the First World War as
                    "a ‘watershed’ dividing the Progressive Era (in which the
                    ‘people’ reigned supreme) from the pro-business
                    ‘conservative’ decade which followed" (p. 4). This dictum, the author
                    believes, must be modified on the evidence of the history of railroad politics between 1914 and
                    1920, a history he explores with a sense of the scene familiar in group theories of politics,
                    centering as he does on the group structure of the railroad industry, and the play among its parts.
                    His study of a large amount of first rate original material leads him to the conclusion that wartime
                    federal operation of the railroads led to no lasting break with the prewar regulatory style (with
                    the Interstate Commerce Commission presumably protecting shippers) despite efforts after the war to
                    establish more managerial modes of control, like that of the Plumb Plan. Thus there was continuity
                    between the prewar and postwar periods, between the Progressive Era "system of deciding
                    railroad policy and the regulatory system refined by the Transportation Act of 1920" (p.
                    4).
            Even if one accepted, provisionally, the author's statement that the act of 1920 was merely
                    a refinement of the prewar style of regulation, it might still be possible to maintain the
                    proposition that the war was a "watershed" between a reformist and a conservative
                    period because the only evidence he adduces that it was not a watershed is the act
                    of 1920, without consideration of any of the events in the decade that followed. The act in fact
                    more than "restored the federal regulatory system developed during the Progressive
                    Era" (p. 225) by departing from the prewar idea that the principal role of government was
                    to enforce competition among the roads since it contemplated the consolidation of all the roads into
                    a few great systems within which the revenues of the stronger roads would be shared with the weaker
                    ones. Because of conservative resistance, both official and private, these goals of regulation were
                    never reached—the recapture  provision was repealed
                    in 1933, a grand consolidation plan finally produced by the ICC in 1929 had negligible results, and
                    the Transportation Act of 1940 made no reference to such a plan.
            The real continuity between the prewar and postwar periods was the paramount influence of railroad
                    managers in the making of transportation policy. Long before 1914 and long after 1920 an invincible
                    characteristic of railroad regulation has been the inability of the managers to subordinate their
                    competitive interests or to yield to weakening impulses of reticence, self-denial, generosity, or
                    patriotic confusion. The author himself shows that the managers refused to acknowledge the existence
                    of a crisis when the railroads were paralyzed in 1917 (p. 67), that they accepted federal operation
                    only when they were guaranteed a high corporate return, and that a corporate elite dominated the
                    United States Railroad Administration from the beginning. After federal operation under these
                    circumstances, the only interest to be significantly stronger than it was before (except management)
                    was railroad labor, whose awakening had occurred before the crisis that led to federal operation.
            The strength of the book is the smoothness of the narrative, which will certainly be of interest and
                    use to students of one important aspect of twentieth century economic history. The discussion of the
                    passage of the Transportation Act of 1920, for example, is a lucid exposition of the formal
                    procedure in Congress although political scientists might want a somewhat more analytical treatment
                    of the structure of the committees, the activities of lobbies, and patterns of voting. A weakness of
                    the book is the assumption that the single experience of one (albeit basic) industry will support
                    the generalization that "we can reasonably reject prevailing historical explanations about
                    the total impact of the mobilization experience upon American industrial society" (p. 228).
                    Especially when the book ends where the demonstration (should begin.
            The work concludes with an excellent bibliographical statement.
            
               Amherst College, Amherst Earl Latham
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               A History of Indiana. Volume I, From Its Exploration to 1850. Volume II, From 1850 to the Present. By Logan Esarey. Reprint. (Indianapolis: Hoosier
                    Heritage Press, Inc., 1970. Pp. xi, 523; xi, 573-1148. Maps, notes, selected bibliography, appendix,
                    indices. Clothbound, $13.95; paperbound, $8.95.) The Hoosier Heritage Press
                    has launched its reprint series of out of print Indiana volumes with Logan Esarey's two
                    volume History of Indiana, which has long been in considerable demand. The
                    bibliography and appendix of data on Indiana have been added by the publisher. In the introduction
                    to this reprint edition of Esarey's study the editor of the Indiana Magazine
                        of History includes these comments and evaluations: "Of Esarey's
                    scholarly writing and editing, his two-volume history of Indiana was among his earliest productions.
                    The first volume appeared in 1915; the second in 1918. They constituted an initial scholarly survey
                    of Indiana. Though long out of print and much in demand, neither volume was ever revised save for
                    miscellaneous corrections and changes incorporated in some early reprintings. These volumes do not
                    represent the author's full ability and mature scholarship; they include scattered errors
                    of fact; portions are less well written than desirable; and Esarey subsequently modified his views
                    about this and that as his studies continued. But no serious student of Indiana history can afford
                    to ignore Esarey's findings and conclusions. He had an uncanny ability to extract the
                    maximum of truth from the considerable body of sources he researched. Aware of human foibles and
                    imperfections, he wrote with keen discernment and great understanding of men, events, and movements.
                    Without neglecting politics and constitutional history, Esarey gave much attention to economic,
                    social and cultural developments" (p. vi).
            
               Rush County, Indiana: A Study in Rural Settlement Geography. By Wayne E. Kiefer.
                        Geographic Monograph Series, Volume 2. (Bloomington: Department of Geography,
                    Indiana University, 1969. Pp. x, 144. Notes, figures, tables, illustrations, appendices, selected
                    bibliography. Paperbound, $4.00.) This is an informative and interesting survey of farm
                    life in Rush County, Indiana, from its early pioneer settlement to the 1960s. Although based on
                    substantial primary and secondary research, this study is somewhat disjointed and often fragmentary.
                    Nevertheless, historians and nonhistorians alike can find much of value in this monograph on the
                    historical development and present status of one of the nation's leading farm counties.
            
            
               Notre Dame: Its People and Its Legends. By Francis Wallace. (New York: David McKay
                    Company, Inc., 1969. Pp. xiii, 273. Endpaper map, illustrations. $5.95.) The title of
                    this volume well describes its scope and approach. It is a popular and journalistic account of Notre
                    Dame University from its origins to the end of the 1960s. It is a generally readable account, which
                    glories in Notre Dame's football supremacy. But it offers considerable evidence that Notre
                    Dame, especially under the guidance of Father John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., and Father Theodore M.
                    Hesburgh, C. S. C., has become one of the leading Roman Catholic universities of the world.
            
               From Flood to Fire: The History of Indianapolis Rotary Club, 1913-1969. By John
                    McDowell. (Indianapolis: Indianapolis Rotary Club, 1969. Pp. xiv, 305. Endpapers, illustrations,
                    appendices. $5.00). From Flood to Fire is a popular account of
                    Indianapolis Rotary from its founding in 1913 to the 1960s. It includes much commentary about the
                    social, economic, political, and cultural life of the Hoosier capital in these years. Achievements
                    and contributions of Indianapolis Rotary are generously described, but a number of blemishes and
                    even some warts in Rotary's development are also portrayed. This is a volume worthy of
                    serious study by anyone who wishes to improve his understanding of the Indiana and especially the
                    Indianapolis scene during most of the twentieth century.
            
               The National Register of Historic Places, 1969. (Washington, D. C.: United States
                    Department of the Interior, National Park Service, 1969. Pp. XIV, 352. Illustrations, index.
                    $5.25.) This new publication of the National Park Service will doubtless play a major
                    role in fostering the better preservation of buildings, structures, objects, and sites of historic
                    importance throughout the United States. It includes more than 1,100 entries of items having
                    national, state, or local importance, including eleven for Indiana. Brief statements accompanying
                    the entries indicate location and historic significance, which makes this volume a very useful guide
                    for persons visiting places of historic importance. The introductory explanatory material offers
                    encouraging evidence of the increased role of the federal government in the historic preservation
                    movement within the United States during the last several decades. Unfortunately, however, state and
                    local governments generally have lagged in accepting their proper share of responsibility in this
                    movement. Nevertheless, perhaps this initial biennial publication of The National
                        Register of Historic Places will promote increased state and local efforts for historic
                    preservation in a desirable manner and also encourage further cooperation between local and national
                    efforts.
            
            
               Disciple Preaching in the First Generation: An Ecological Study. By Dwight E.
                    Stevenson. The Forrest F. Reed Lectures for 1969. (Nashville: The Disciples of Christ Historical
                    Society, 1969. Pp. 109. Notes. $3.95.) This study offers interesting insights and
                    perspectives about preaching among Disciples of Christ in the generation or so preceding the
                    American Civil War. Its significance is enhanced by the author's considerable acquaintance
                    with the historical context in which such preaching occurred as well as by his interpretation and
                    evaluation of ministers in terms of whether their sermons had relevance to the life and needs of
                    those to whom they were directed. The net result is a useful study of preaching by Alexander
                    Campbell and many other early Disciples who played an important role in the religious development of
                    the Ohio Valley in particular.
            
               Personal Recollections and Observations of General Nelson A. Miles. New
                    Introduction by Robert M. Utley. Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and
                        Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (New York: Da Capo Press, 1969. Pp. IX, 590.
                    Illustrations. $27.50.) The Personal Recollections of General Miles, originally published
                    in 1896, did much to romanticize the Civil War and American occupation of the vast region west of
                    the Mississippi. It gives major emphasis to Indian relations and the intermittent conflict between
                    red men and "Americans," indicating numerous related stories and traditions. A
                    sample of the superpatriotic literature of the late nineteenth century, it glows with pride
                    concerning the achievements of Americans and with approbation for the soldiers, settlers, and others
                    who ("freed" the trans-Mississippi West of Indian domination and established
                    "civilization" in its stead.
            The Hollowells. Volume I. Compiled by Lucy Elliott Hollowell. (Franklin, Va.:
                    Robert Hollowell, printer, 1969. Pp. 89. Illustration. In binder, $3.00.) This is the
                    first of two proposed volumes concerning the descendants of Thomas and Alice Hollowell, indicated as
                    having been married in England in 1646. It is devoted to the descendants of their youngest son,
                    John, born in 1672. The study seems to be well organized and is apparently the result of much
                    research. The ensuing volume will cover the descendants of three other sons of Thomas and Alice
                    Hollowell.
         
         
         
            Conference on Indiana Historic Preservation
            The second Annual Conference on Historic Preservation in Indiana will be held at Bloomington, October
                    8-10, 1970. It will give some attention to architectural preservation as a sequel to the 1969
                    conference. The major emphasis, however, will be on preservation of natural areas and protection of
                    the natural environment. Among other topics to be considered are: preservation of local archival and
                    manuscript material, the place of museums in historic preservation, the role of archeology in
                    historic preservation, and the need for additional favorable legislation to encourage preservation
                    projects and programs.
            Individuals wanting information about the 1970 conference should send complete mailing addresses
                    (including zip code) to Donald F. Carmony, Chairman, Committee on Historic Preservation, Indiana
                    University, Bloomington, Indiana 47401. Brochures providing complete information will be mailed
                    during July. Those who attended the 1969 conference will automatically receive the brochure if they
                    gave complete mailing addresses at registration.
         
         
            Research Opportunities—Presidential Libraries
            The Department of History of Notre Dame University, the Society of American Archivists, and the
                    National Archives and Records Service (Region 5) are cooperating in the presentation of a symposium
                    on using the resources of the presidential libraries on Friday, October 30, 1970, in the Continuing
                    Education Center on the Notre Dame .campus.
            Registration is $6.00 and includes coffee breaks and lunch. Rooms are available at the
                    Morris Inn on campus at $12.00 single and $17.00 double. Motel accommodations
                    are available within a two mile radius, and rates vary from $11.00 single to
                    $19.00 double. A printed program prepared in September, 1970, will be mailed to members
                    of the Society of American Archivists, Society of Ohio Archivists, Michigan Archivists Association,
                    and departments of history at colleges and universities in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, and
                    Wisconsin. Others who desire a program may send a request to: Regional Archives Branch, Federal
                    Records Center, 7201 South Leamington Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60638.
         
      
   
