
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 95, Issue 4, pages 331-419. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:95+issue:4+year:1999&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Beginning Anew: Immigrant Letters from Indiana
            
                    James R. Kuppers and Karl M. Gabriel
                    ∗
                    Introduction by John Bodnar
                    ∗∗
                
            
                    Introduction
                
            In the century after 1820, over thirty million people left Europe for America. Farmers, politicians,
                    clerics, craftsmen, women, children, and unskilled workers all made difficult journeys overland and
                    perilous ocean crossings. Although many came from remote European villages, immigrants were adept at
                    acquiring the information they needed for the move. Historians now realize that these travelers
                    seldom left Europe without knowing in advance a great deal about the conditions that they would
                    encounter in the 
                        United States
                    . Despite the primitive state of communications, these ordinary people were able to
                    convey important information to others to an extraordinary extent. Regardless of the ethnic group
                    involved, migrants relayed precise data about land costs, wage rates, and conditions that might be
                    encountered during weeks and months of travel. Crossing the ocean to a new land was an unpredictable
                    venture to be sure, but the travelers gathered all the information they could to help them make
                    their way.
            The information came in various forms. Family members and friends corresponded extensively. It was
                    not uncommon in a European village to receive mail from America describing which companies were
                    hiring or what skills would serve a potential migrant best. Some American states also sent booklets
                    and other forms of advertising to Europe in an attempt to attract newcomers, although some did this
                    more effectively than others. In the 1860s, for instance, Scottish emigrants knew much more about 
                        Wisconsin
                     than they did about Indiana because legislators in 
                        Madison
                     were more willing to spend money on promotional literature than those in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Whatever format immigrant communications took, prospective newcomers looked carefully for clues that
                    would assist them in making 
                  
                     ∗ James R. Kuppers is professor emeritus of chemistry in
                            the University of 
                                North Carolina
                             at Charlotte. He is the great grandson of Hermann Bullermann and the
                            great-great-grandson of 
                                Jasper
                             and Elizabeth (Krönen) Schroer. Karl M. Gabriel is professor
                            emeritus of foreign languages in the University of 
                                North Carolina
                             at Charlotte. He translated the German documents.
                  
                     ∗∗ John Bodnar, professor of history and chair
                            of the department, Indiana University, is the author of The Transplanted
                            (1985).
               
                     a move. Germans thinking about starting farms in the Midwest,
                    for instance, needed to know something about the soil and the climate, as well as who might cheat
                    them along the immigrant trail from Europe. Thousands of Europeans crossed to America when they
                    received news of the Homestead Act (1862) and its promise of free land. And letters back home
                    instructed Mennonites coming to 
                        Kansas
                     and Norwegians moving to 
                        Wisconsin
                     on what type of wheat strains grew best in those areas.
            If immigrants thought about settlement in an industrial region, they were likely to look for
                    information about job openings, wage rates, and skills needed. Thus, Italians had already heard
                    about harsh conditions in steel mills before they arrived in 
                        Chicago
                     and decided that they would rather take jobs outdoors doing construction work. British
                    metal workers knew the wage rates were higher in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     than in Birmingham. In a similar fashion, Irish immigrant families with many children
                    to feed sought out textile mills where the employment of adolescents was widespread and moved to
                    locations where teenagers could start earning a paycheck at an early age.
            In the article that follows, two German migrants to Indiana provide specific details that would help
                    those who followed them. Leaving the region of 
                        Germany
                     near the confluence of the Rhine and Ruhr rivers, a major center of German emigration
                    in the middle of the nineteenth century, they are able to offer valuable advice on the conditions of
                    travel and make important observations about American society in general. Consider how well Peter
                    Schultze describes what he finds on landing in 
                        New York City
                    . He not only identifies German restaurants and inns but notes some of the democratic
                    practices of American society itself. For potential travelers, Hermann Bullermann manages to
                    reconstruct quite specifically the journey from 
                        New York
                     to Indiana in 1849 and the rigors of travel on both land and water. The kinds of
                    documents created by these men were replicated time and again throughout the nineteenth century as
                    European immigrants worked in concert to exchange information and ease the burdens of moving to
                    America.
            
            
               NEPRODUCTION OF TITLE PAGE, "NEWS FROM
                            THE FAMILIES SCHROER AND BULLERMAN OF INDIANA"
            
            
            On September 2, 1848, the sailing vessel Luconia departed from Antwerp with 
                        New York
                     as its destination. Of the twelve persons assigned to the steerage compartment, seven
                    were young Germans from the vicinity of Meurs, currently Moers, in the province of Nord
                    Rhein-Westphalia. Included among these men were Peter Schultze, a twenty-three-year-old merchant,
                    Hermann Bullermann, a farmer of thirty-one, and his younger brothers Balthasar and Wilhelm
                        George.1 Located in a heavily populated region west of Duisburg near the
                    confluence of the Rhine and the Ruhr rivers, Meurs had become a part of Prussia in the eighteenth
                    century. Nearby was the city of Krefeld, which had been a temporary refuge in the seventeenth
                    century for the settlers of 
                  Germantown, Pennsylvania
               . Hence, some of the very early
                    German settlers in North America had departed from this region.
            The lower Rhine was in a state of transition. Towns that formerly had been marketing centers and
                    seats of cottage industries were becoming more highly urbanized. Factories displaced small crafts;
                    mining increased in line with the demand for coal and coke; and surrounding agricultural land, of
                    necessity, was more intensively cultivated. A demographic study of Duisburg during this period
                    reveals some of the problems that might have confronted emigrants from the region. Furthermore, the
                    Prussian government under King Frederick William IV, although sensitive to some of the social
                    problems associated with industrialization, did not take seriously the aspirations of leaders of the
                    1848 revolution concerning a liberalized representative government.2
            
            What prompted these young men to emigrate? It could have been concern over the failing revolution of
                    1848 (which had affected most of the continent), population pressure, fear of conscription into the
                    Prussian army, adventurous spirits, or various combinations of these factors. Most of these men
                    settled down to a quiet life as farmers or merchants in southern Indiana, where relatives and
                    friends from 
                        Germany
                     soon joined them.3
            
            Reports of their experiences, published in Meurs under the general title "Der Auswanderer am
                    Niederrhein" ("The Emigrant from the Lower Rhine"), served as travel
                    advisories for prospective emigrants. Although the best copy available is only partially legible,
                        
                  
                     1 The travelers from Meurs also included Wilhelm Rubens, a
                            twenty-eight-year-old merchant, Gottfried Krieg, a merchant of twenty, and Brand, a
                            thirty-one-year-old farmer; passenger list of luconia, arriving in 
                                New York
                             October 19,1848, Microfilm Publications, (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     2 James H. Jackson, Jr., "Migration in Duisburg,
                            1821-1914," in People in Transit: German Migrations in Comparative
                                Perspective, 1820-1930, eds. Dirk Hoerder and Jorg Nagler (
                                New York
                            , 1995). See also Mack Walker, 
                        
                                    Germany
                                 and the Emigration 1816-1885 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1964), 103-33.
                  
                     3 Carl Wittke, Refugees of Revolution: The German Forty
                                eighters in America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1952).
               
                    
                    
                  PETER SCHULTZE (1826-1895)
                  Courtesy of Joseph Haseman, Loogootee, Indiana
                enough can be deciphered and translated so that, in conjunction with other documents, one
                    can begin an informative chronicle.4
            
            
                    "Busy commotion probably unlike any other city in the world" The
                        Report of Peter Schultze
                
            The letters that Peter Schultze wrote to his family in Meurs describe in detail the voyage of the Luconia, its arrival in 
                        New York City
                     on October 19,1848, and his impressions of the city. Peter begins his report with his
                    departure from Antwerp. Before boarding the Luconia, he and the other travelers
                    purchased provisions, including straw-filled sacks and cotton blankets for bedding.5
            
            
               
                  4 The authors are grateful for the help of the staff of the State
                        Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . They made special efforts to copy materials that were in very poor condition. The
                        authors also wish to acknowledge the assistance of Lena Gabriel.
               
                  5 "Erster Reisebericht aus Nordamerika von Peter Schultze aus
                        Meurs," in Der Auswanderer am Niederrhein (Meurs, 
                            Germany
                        , 1849).
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Soon the ship arrives at the pier and we get into a small boat to get
                                        on board. Everyone pays one Franc for our transfer. It is 7:30 and beginning to
                                        get dark. We arrive at the Luconia, and we are cheated by 1/2 Franc per person.
                                        Anyone who did not pay could not leave the small boat. So what should we do? It
                                        was impossible to go back with our luggage, and where should we complain? So we
                                        paid. We climb up a ladder and are on board. In 
                                            Germany
                                         the bells were ringing for Sunday service when we went to our
                                        cabin. It looked desolate. We formed a long line and the first lit a lantern. We
                                        all moved forward and now we could see our rooms clearly illuminated by the
                                        light. Excluding the beds, we had a room 12 feet long, twelve feet
                                        wide…. Everything was in a mess and the first thing that happened was
                                        to nominate somebody to be in charge of food to decide what was to be eaten. I
                                        was elected to do that and a pantry was set up in the lowest bunkbed and an
                                        inventory of available food was made. After two hours I finished working in the
                                        pantry and the beds were assigned. In the beginning we did not like the upper
                                        bunks but we later changed our minds. Everyone had to choose his two bunk mates.
                                    6
                                
                        
                                    Everything was put in order, the cabin swept, the cooking utensils and
                                        clothes, etc., were hung in suitable places. Afterwards we went on deck to drink
                                        a bottle of Bordeaux. We had fifty bottles for the twelve of us.
                                    7
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            After two days, they discharged the pilot who had brought them down the Schelde River and took aboard
                    the pilot for the English Channel. Peter was impressed by the play of porpoises. The channel
                    crossing was rough; there was a headwind and it took two days to cross.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    Seasickness is too well known to have to write much about it. It
                                        manifests itself in different ways. Of our group, Brand, H. Bullermann, Rubens
                                        and I did not get seasick. Krieg was not seasick eight days at the beginning and
                                        four days at the end…. Seasickness is neither fatal nor bad for your
                                        health. On the contrary, it is very beneficial for your body. It just is not
                                        pleasant.
                                
                     
                  
                While waiting for favorable weather so they could pass 
                        Dover
                    , six of the group went ashore at Deal to stretch their legs.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    We landed at Walmer Castle, one of Wellington's, who had arrived the
                                        previous evening. We viewed the Castle, which inspired respect with its
                                        terrifying cannons pointing to the sea, but we were not allowed to enter it.
                                        Ladies were strolling in the park. They looked with big eyes at us six
                                        red-jacketed young fellows. They might have thought we were bandits.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  6 The arrangement might have been three-tier bunks.
               
                  7 This would have been about 1/12 of a bottle per day per person.
            
            
            The Luconia began its trans-Atlantic voyage on about September 9. Schultze makes no
                    comment on it until October 6, when, following a severe storm, strong winds drove the ship towards
                    the North American continent at what must have been near top speed—ten miles per hour. On
                    October 8, the ship encountered a frigid storm, and they caught an American nightingale. There was a
                    near fatality October 14, when a heavy pulley struck a sailor on the head. Later that day they
                    caught eight land birds. The following incident amused Peter:
                  
                     
                        
                                    At night around twelve I was on deck. Within a few minutes I saw the
                                        boat change course towards Europe. It happened very slowly. The sailor at the
                                        helm had had an argument with the navigator on duty and was playing a little
                                        trick on him now.
                                
                     
                  
                October 15 being the birthday of King Frederick William IV (1795—1861), one in
                    the group wondered
            
                    
                  
                     
                        …how they celebrate it in 
                                        Germany
                                    , in Meurs? Is it being celebrated in the old way? Is it even
                                    celebrated, or is civil war raging in 
                                        Germany
                                    , which makes the burgers of Meurs forget?
                     
                  
               
                
            Land came into view on October 17, and the next day they took a new pilot aboard. Since there was an
                    unfavorable wind, they dropped anchor off Sandy Hook, which Peter called
                    "Tandyhook." Although he had mistaken 
                        New York
                     Bay and the Hudson River for the Delaware River, Schultze
                    describes graphically the approach to Manhattan.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I cannot describe the scenery as it appeared in reality, but I must say
                                        a few words. 
                                            New York
                                        , a natural unconquerable fortress, which repels any enemy that
                                        would dare attack it, has its first fortifications on the left side of the 
                                            Delaware
                                        
                            [
                                        New York
                                     Bay]. These types of fortifications are completely foreign
                                        to us Germans. One fortification [Governor's Island] is in the middle of the
                                            Delaware River
                            [
                                        New York
                                     Bay], and it can send death in all directions from its
                                        many guns. It is probably quite new. Farther up the river there were some garden
                                        houses and on the right bank of the river one could see in the distance farm
                                        houses of different types. Fenced-in brown cattle dotted the landscape, which
                                        was covered by the most beautiful trees, especially the red beech. Parts of the
                                        landscape were covered with primeval forests with cultivated land here and
                                        there. Now and then you could see an American driving by. Numerous ships were
                                        sailing on the Delaware River
                            [
                                        New York
                                     Bay] when we finally reached Staden [sic] Island. The
                                        medical doctor came on board to check the people. We were under
                                        quarantine…. In a quarter of an hour the quarantine was over and we
                                        happily set out for 
                                            New York
                                        .
                        
                     
                  
                Enthralled by the city, Peter writes, 
                  
                     
                        
                           You have to see the city surrounded by a forest of ships' masts. Over
                                        300 churches and chapels point their spires to the sky. It is a
                                    
                                    magnificent view, a busy commotion probably unlike any other city in
                                        the world. Just to give you a small idea, I should mention that within five
                                        minutes we saw no fewer than 15 steamboats [most likely ferries] on one side of our ship going from one bank of the river to the other,
                                        while just as many, if not more, were landing or departing. We docked and we
                                        were the fifth ship from land. Rubens, G. Bullermann, and I left the ship to
                                        look for an inn. Without directions we walked through the city for about an hour
                                        until we found an inn, the Ivening (sic) Star, a German
                                        restaurant. We went in and since we liked it, we asked the innkeeper after lunch
                                        how much he was charging per day. Halfa dollar did not seem to be too much, and
                                        so we reserved space for six people. Then we went back to the ship with a basket
                                        of food to satisfy the hungry people who had stayed there. Next we had our
                                        suitcases and travel bags checked and had them transported to our inn for one
                                        dollar…. We could not get our boxes until 9 o'clock the next morning.
                                        I took out fresh clothing right away, put it into a basket, and carrying it
                                        myself, I walked to a bath house without being accompanied by a servant, as
                                        would be usual in 
                                            Germany
                                        . Here a gentleman carries his own things. He comes from the market
                                        with ducks or geese and nobody is surprised. This is a marvelous custom because
                                        it is so natural and unpretentious. A warm bath and a dust removal facility were
                                        in a small room. Right next to it were big halls for shaving and haircuts. Here
                                        one could see Americans sitting in fine chairs, their feet resting on 2 and 1/2
                                        foot velvet footstools. In these surrounding the barbers did their work. All of
                                        the walls were of mirrored glass, an elegance which I had never seen
                                    before.
                        
                     
                  
                Most of the following day was devoted to reclaiming their crated possessions from the hold
                    of the ship, an arduous task since their ship was the fifth from shore at the mooring site.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    We visited several friends for whom we had letters, but we could not
                                        find Rauschenbusch. In the evening I went to a German bookstore to buy some
                                        things, especially, "The German Farmer" by Feldmann, which had
                                        been highly recommended. Today, Monday, I found Rauschenbusch, who welcomed me
                                        warmly at the mission house. We talked about the above-mentioned book, which he
                                        would recommend to all German immigrants.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Having been cheated when boarding the ship at Antwerp, Peter is particularly apprehensive about
                    further exploitation.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I cannot refrain from saying something about the system of agencies
                                        here. It is an organization of crooks on three levels: Runner, Innkeeper, and
                                        Owner of Lines. When an immigrant arrives, the runners are right there on the
                                        boat promising to take them anywhere. He can count on being cheated ninety-nine
                                        times out of a hundred cases. Since most of the people cannot read English, they
                                        have to believe what they are told about the ticket; that is, they are told they
                                        would
                                    
                                    travel on a steamship, when in fact they are transported on a canal
                                        boat like cattle. Frequently passengers have to pay again in 
                                            Albany
                                         and Buffalo because their tickets are not valid any farther.
                                        Everyone should watch out that he gets to the agent of the 
                                            Germany
                                         agency, a Mr. Allstett, and he should take care that he is not
                                        directed toward somebody else.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Peter warns immigrants not to expect to get suitable employment quickly in 
                        New York
                    , but he acknowledges that 75 percent of his shipmates found some type of work within
                    forty-eight hours of landing. Returning to an optimistic tone, he notes:
                  
                     
                        
                                    Anyone who spends a few days here will see right away that America,
                                        which is called the New World, really is that, No one can imagine how lively
                                        trade is. Even the basements of houses are used as inns, stores, etc. People
                                        live better here than in 
                                            Germany
                                         and they make twice the money with half the work. If one goes into
                                        a store in the morning and sees there the quantity of vegetables, eggs, butter,
                                        in short, all kinds of foods, tropical fruits, and groceries, one is quite
                                        surprised that in the evening everything is sold. I have found only a few houses
                                        in all of 
                                            New York
                                         where there is not a shop or wholesale business. But everything
                                        here is new. Houses are covered with all kinds of ads. The newspapers are also
                                        full of ads…. A German would think he is dreaming if he goes to one
                                        of the markets which are held every day in seventeen locations. Everything is in
                                        a covered hall. If one wanted to go through the 
                                            Washington
                                         market, one would need at least eighteen minutes. One can imagine
                                        how many thousands of people are there. One would find every kind of baked
                                        goods, vegetables, fowl, venison, fish, fruit, preserves, live rabbits, live
                                        pigeons, birds of all kinds, and everything imaginable…. An American
                                        in an inn would be considered uncouth. He lounges nonchalantly in a comfortable
                                        mahogany chair in the style of German garden chairs. He would have his feet on
                                        the window bench or wherever he likes. He might even break some chairs if he is
                                        in a good mood, and he is probably not spending a cent in the place. Drinking
                                        water is piped in from thirty miles away. It is also used for fire pumps in case
                                        of a fire. They are such a beautiful spectacle that we thought there was a
                                        festival when we saw about five or six fire pumps pulled by three rows of men.
                                        There were three fires today in our part of town.
                                
                     
                  
                Peter also comments on the "huge inn built of gray marble" for fellow
                    countryman John Jacob Astor. Peter ends his report with a reference to Atlantic shipping.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    The English freighters have excellent speed. I had a chance to see one
                                        of 1000 tons pass us. Our ship, which was listed with 700 tons, had only 480
                                        tons.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            After talking with Rauschenbusch at the mission house in 
                        New York
                    , several of the group from Meurs, including Peter Schultze,  Rubens, and the Bullermanns (George, Hermann, and Balthasar), abandoned
                    the original plans to visit a farm in 
                        Michigan
                     and decided to go directly to 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, where their contact would be a Pastor Tölke.
            
                    "The country is very beautiful here, hilly and quite fertile" The
                        Report of Hermann Bullermann
                
            Like Peter Schultze, Hermann Bullermann sent detailed letters to his relatives in 
                        Germany
                    . In his letters he describes the route from 
                        New York
                     to Indiana and offers advice to those who would join him in 1849. In addition, he
                    details the availability and quality of farmland in Indiana.8
            
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Hopefully you will have received George's letter from 
                                            New York
                                        . We stayed in 
                                            New York
                                         for eight days. It took us ten hours to 
                                            Albany
                                         and from there by train twenty-five hours to Buffalo, where we
                                        arrived Saturday evening. Sunday we visited the Niagara Falls, the biggest
                                        natural wonder of America. There was no boat across Lake
                                        Erie to Sandusky on Monday, and from Tuesday to Thursday a terrible
                                        storm was raging so that no boats could get out. Therefore we didn't start out
                                        again until 11 o'clock Friday morning. Saturday afternoon at 4 o'clock we
                                        arrived in Sandusky. A few miles from there we were transferred from the big
                                        boat into a smaller one. It was so full that water often ran from one side to
                                        the other and we were afraid that the little thing would capsize. We spent the
                                        night in Sandusky. At 6 o'clock the next morning we continued to travel by train
                                        and arrived in 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         at 10 o'clock in the evening. We stayed there until Sunday, 1
                                        o'clock in the afternoon, when we left again. On Wednesday, at 4 o'clock in the
                                        afternoon, we arrived here [
                                        Evansville
                                    ]. We did not meet Pastor Tolke at home but a local cabinet
                                        maker named Decker found us an apartment with a man named Autzmann. Now the five
                                        of us are living in an upstairs room. There are no bed frames in the room, so we
                                        had to put our beds in the hallway. We also get our meals from the man. Pastor
                                        Tölke lives in the same house with us. On our trip we had to transfer
                                        our luggage six times, a very annoying and strenuous matter, especially if one
                                        had a lot of luggage. We think that you would do better to travel via 
                                            New Orleans
                                        …. This route is preferable to that via 
                                            New York
                                        . However, it should be noted that at the moment there is a cholera
                                        outbreak in 
                                            New Orleans
                                        . According to the latest reports the outbreak is supposed to be
                                        getting better….
                        
                        
                                    You could start your trip early enough so that you won't catch the
                                        fever. Bolten, Berns from Bergheim, Steller from [illegible] and another one
                                        from that area arrived last week. They needed five weeks from Antwerp to 
                                            New Orleans
                                         and seven days from there to here.
                                
                        
                           
                              8 "Erster Bericht der Grafschafter aus
                                        Indiana," in Der Auswanderer.
                        
                        
                        
                           HERMANN BULLERMANN
                                        (1817-1893) AND MARGRETHA SCHROER BULLERMANN (1819-1893)
                           Courtesy of Rosemary Haseman Willlard, Downers Grove. 
                                            Illinois
                                        
                           
                        
                        
                                    Steller paid fifty-five Thaler for the cabin to 
                                            New Orleans
                                        , and for that he had only an add-on room with an exit to the lower
                                        deck at the rear end of the boat. If you can go to any seaport and make an
                                        agreement with the captain himself then you get the room and everything just as
                                        you need it and you don't pay much more than for lower deck. Also you are not in
                                        danger of being cheated by an agent.
                                
                     
                  
                As it happened, the group of relatives, including a brother, John Henry Bullermann, his
                    family, and Hermann's future wife and in-laws, came neither to 
                        New Orleans
                     nor 
                        New York
                     but to 
                        Boston
                    , where they encountered a cholera epidemic to which nearly half of them succumbed.
            Hermann left 
                        Evansville
                     to investigate farmland in southwestern Indiana
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                           We rented a wagon with two horses, for which we had to pay one and a
                                        half dollars per day. Accompanied by Pastor Tölke, we drove to 
                                            Bethlehem
                                        
                            [now Freelandville]9. The
                                        area around 
                                            Evansville
                                         is
                                    
                              
                                 9 R. Taylor, Jr., et al., Indiana: A New
                                                Historical Guide (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1989).
                           
                                    
                                    hilly and marshy towards the 
                                            Ohio River
                                        . There is not much life in town and the houses are very far apart.
                                        However, as soon as the canal is finished, the area will blossom. Sawmills and
                                        flour mills could be built here, as well as iron mills, of which there are
                                        almost none here. The first day we drove as far as Warington [probably
                                    Warrenton in 
                                        Gibson County
                                    ]…. George was already suffering from severe
                                        headaches, probably due to a cold. The next day we went four to six miles on the
                                        other side of 
                                            Princeton
                                        . We stayed with an American farmer who has a nice farm
                                    [illegible] acres, of which 150 acres are cultivated. In the evening
                                        many people stayed there. You can stay with any Yankee farmer who is somewhat
                                        equipped to house guests. Compared to inns they are much cheaper. In an inn you
                                        pay twice as much and don't have it any better. The following day we passed the
                                            White River and stopped in 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , which lies on the 
                                            Wabash
                                        . The following day we arrived in 
                                            Bethlehem
                                        . The country is very beautiful here, hilly and quite
                                        fertile…. They also haves good water everywhere. [In 
                                        Evansville
                                     they had almost exclusively rain water, which was collected in a well.]
                                        The people in 
                                            Bethlehem
                                         are all from the area of Lippe, and they have been here for four
                                        years. Almost all of them arrived here without property and by now they have
                                        acquired enough so that they can have a comfortable existence. Some have thirty
                                        acres, one more, the other less, six to eight cows and forty to fifty pigs, and
                                        also a few horses. Most of these farms appear somewhat untidy, which is probably
                                        due to the Westphalian background of the people.
                        
                     
                  
                Note the fine distinction Hermann makes between the Rhinelanders and their neighbors a few
                    miles to the east of the Rhine valley.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           They finished a new church, which is just a log cabin. Now the pastor's
                                        residence is to be built. There are also nice ones among them. However, it has
                                        been so rainy and the weather has been so bad that you could hardly step
                                        outside, and we have not had a chance to see them all. On Tuesday we went up to
                                        Linton, where Bethel is situated. Here we stayed with farmer Weins in a place
                                        called New Jerusalem [now Linton], about which Pastor
                                        Tölke had written us. This farm is 240 acres big, well-equipped, with
                                        a nice fruit orchard. Eighty acres are cultivated and they are situated very
                                        nicely. Rubens will most likely buy it. I have seen two more farms here which
                                        are next to each other. They were both for sale and I liked them very much. The
                                        ground is gently sloping towards a prairie, and on the prairie there are still
                                        eighty acres of mature forest. One farm is 215 acres with a house, eighty
                                        fenced-in acres, not all of which are cultivated. The price is one thousand
                                        dollars. Another farm is 110 acres, nicely equipped, with house and orchard,
                                        much of it under cultivation. I don't know how much it costs because the owner
                                        has been away, but it should be more expensive, according to the conditions. By
                                        the way, there are many farms for sale because all the Americans want to sell.
                                        In the vicinity there is also Congressional land still available for sale. We
                                        went sixteen
                                    
                                    miles farther beyond Pointkummers [Point Commerce near
                                    Worthington] where the canal [
                                        Wabash
                                     and Erie] runs close by. It is still being worked on.
                                        Workers here earn sixteen dollars a month clear and the food, which is very
                                        good, is supplied by the company. If people provide their own food they earn
                                        proportionately more. Pointkummers will soon be a prosperous city.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            In the early 1800s government land grants subsidized extensive canal building.10
                    The prospects of convenient market access for farmers would have impressed immigrants who were
                    accustomed to water transport in the lower Rhine valley. However, they probably did not foresee that
                    the rapid development of railroads would so quickly dampen the ‘canal building
                    fever.’
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    Here also one can still buy enough farms, but there is no Congressional
                                        land, only canal land, which is more expensive. We stayed here for one night and
                                        the next day we rode back to Weins'. Overnight about half a foot of snow fell
                                        and the following day there was such a terrible rain that we had to stay another
                                        day. The next day we rode back, but in several places we found the creeks so
                                        high that we had to swim through with the horses. In the evening we again
                                        arrived in 
                                            Bethlehem
                                        . George was not able to make the trip from 
                                            Bethlehem
                                         to Bethel and Pointkummers and back because he was still suffering
                                        from headaches and a dry cough. He was delirious at night, as Peter Schultze,
                                        who lives with him, told us.
                                
                        
                           Those two got room and board from another farmer, who has been living in
                                        the country for a longer period of time and is better equipped. The food was not
                                        as good as ours because there was only corn bread served and no wheat bread at
                                        all. At our place it was more according to German tradition and there it was
                                        more according to American custom—every day three times pork, bread,
                                        coffee, and slices of apple or potatoes, which are very good here. When we got
                                        back, George was no better at all, but we had to go back to 
                                            Evansville
                                         because we still had the wagon and the horses, which cost us one
                                        and a half dollars a day. We have decided to spend the winter in Linton near
                                        Bethel with Yankee farmers, where we can help with work and where we also have
                                        the best opportunity to learn the English language. If George also likes it
                                        here, we can buy here. If you are coming too, a nice 
                                            Germany
                                         colony can arise. Rubens, Schultze, Pastor Tölke and I
                                        left 
                                            Bethlehem
                                         again on Wednesday. The evening before, Steller, Berns, and Bolten
                                        arrived here from the Bergisch area. We got as far as Linton and Bethel to look
                                        around. We left George and Balthasar behind. After three days we got back to 
                                            Evansville
                                         again…. Here [in Bethel] one can very
                                        easily get the cold and hot fever. By the way, the
                                    
                              
                                 10 Carter Goodrich, ed., Canals and
                                                American Economic Development (
                                                New York
                                            , 1961).
                           
                                    
                                    
                              MAP OF GREENE COUNTY, INDIANA.
                              Reproduced from Illustrated Historical Atlas of the
                                                State
                              
                           
                                    
                                    people here are quite healthy. Rubens, Schultze, Balthasar and I are
                                        all feeling quite well and during the entire trip we were not sick at all. Also
                                        Bolten and Berns and their families are quite well and happy and say hello to
                                        their family through you. In Bethel you can still find stags and wild turkeys in
                                        flocks of twenty to thirty, just as big as our turkeys at home, twenty to thirty
                                        pounds. I myself saw a flock of them. They were only ten feet away. They have to
                                        be shot with bullets because birdshot kills them only if you shoot them in the
                                        head. Recently I saw three stags in one afternoon. They are shot from perches.
                                        There are also prairie hens in flocks of twenty to thirty. Partridges and
                                        rabbits are plentiful here, but they are smaller than at home. There are also
                                        plenty of wild ducks and geese. The area here is very beautiful and due to the
                                        many prairies it is especially suited for cattle breeding. Last night Berns and
                                        Bolten arrived here again. Steller arrived after them. Everybody liked it very
                                        much here in Bethel, and they will stay with us the first few days. Bolten has
                                        chosen some Congress land and Berns will buy a farm. Bolten would very much like
                                        his family to come here in the spring. We will go to 
                                            Vincennes
                                         all together with the next boat that leaves from here [
                                                Evansville
                                            ]. From here we can go to 
                                            Vincennes
                                         by steamboat, down the 
                                            Ohio
                                        , up the 
                                            Wabash
                                        , which is much better than if we had to drag around our whole
                                        luggage on land because the roads here are very bad. From 
                                            Vincennes
                                         on we will have to leave our things. We will soon be together in
                                        Bethel, where I hope to see George, who had been stricken with a fever from a
                                        cold, well again.
                        
                        
                                    
                                        Hermann Bullermann from Hulsdeng near Meurs
                                    
                                
                     
                  
                The editor of the Dolle press in Meurs added the following footnote: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    We note that the author of the above letter is a farmer and that he
                                        knows farming inside out. We therefore put special value in his report on
                                        Indiana, especially since it seems to agree completely with the reports which
                                        Pastor Tölke made about the state of Indiana.
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            
                    "God punishes us through sickness" John Henry Bullermann
                
            In the spring of 1849, a group of people from Meurs and its vicinity boarded the barque Libra at Rotterdam with 
                        Boston
                     as their destination. Included on the passenger list were J. H. Bullermann, age 29, his
                    wife, Mathilda, their three children, and Mathilda's parents, 
                        Jasper
                     Balthasar Schroer, age 60, and Machtilda [sic] Schroer, age 61.11
                    There were also several of 
                        Jasper
                    's other mature children aboard. In fact, a large number of the eighty-six passengers
                    were 
                  
                     11 Passenger list of the ship Libra, arriving in 
                                Boston
                             June 18, 1849, Microfilm Publications, (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                    
                    
                  1879 PLAT; FAIRPLAY TOWNSHIP, GREENE COUNTY, INDIANA
                  
                members or friends of the Bullermann and Schroer families, destined for southwestern
                    Indiana, where George and Hermann Bullermann had begun purchasing farm land in 
                        Greene County
                    .12
            
            John Henry's published letters give little detail of the voyage: he was preoccupied with the cholera
                        epidemc.13 The voyage was long and wearisome and the accommodations were
                    surely primitive, although being with family and friends made them more tolerable. The Libra sailed from Rotterdam on April 16 and did not reach 
                        Boston
                     until June 18. Five infants died at sea, including a child of John Henry and Mathilda
                    Bullermann and one of Johannes and Margretha Daubenspeck.
            
               
                  12 For the location of land acquired by the Bullermanns and their fellow
                        immigrants see the 1879 plat of Fairplay Township, 
                            Greene County
                        , Indiana.
               
                  13 "Nachrichten über die Familie Schroer und
                        Bullermann aus Indiana " in Der Auswanderer.
               
            
            
            The group used railways, lake boats, and canal boats to reach 
                        Cincinnati
                    . They followed the 
                        Ohio
                     from there to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, where they took a train to 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana. The remainder of the trip to Fairplay Township in 
                        Greene County
                     consisted of a three-day wagon ride for a distance of about sixty miles. The entire
                    journey from 
                        Boston
                     took at least three weeks.
            The first indication that the immigrants might have been exposed to cholera came when two companions,
                    Bruchschen and Stiehman, who had left 
                        Boston
                     a day ahead of the others, died suddenly on the train near Schenectady. Actually, there
                    was an epidemic in 
                        Boston
                     and, from June to November 1849, at least one thousand Bostonians fell victim to the
                        disease.14
            
            Johannes Daubenspeck, Lena Schroer, and George Schroer succumbed early in July before reaching their
                    destination. Margretha Schroer, the widow of Johannes Daubenspeck, later married Hermann Bullermann.
                    Soon after the families joined Hermann and George William Bullermann in Fairplay Township on July 9, 
                        Jasper
                     Balthasar Schroer died in the absence of his wife, who had stayed behind in 
                        Columbus
                     to rest before taking the final wagon ride. John Henry Bullermann, who had already lost
                    an infant while at sea, saw his two remaining children die from what they presumed to be cholera.
                    John Henry's brother, George William, then died on July 22.
            Of these deaths John Henry writes:
                  
                     
                        
                                    The loved ones' resting place is on a small hill on our farm on the way
                                        from Blumfield [sic] to Linton. When and if they lay me to rest there too, I
                                        don% know. God only knows. His will be done. Your punishment from God is war and
                                        war cries. God punishes us through sickness to awaken people from their sins.15
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            About one-half of this group of immigrants died en route or shortly after arrival, and many of them
                    were buried in the plot described by John Henry.16 John Henry's closing remarks
                    in his letter back home include warnings of the many hazards of travel in America.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    If somebody wants to come to see us, let me give this advice. Don't
                                        travel via 
                                            New Orleans
                                         until the middle of September, and bring nothing with you.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  14 George J. Lankevich, ed., 
                     
                                Boston
                            : A Chronological and Documentary History, 1602-1970 (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.,
                        1974).
               
                  15 Charles E. Rosenberg, The Cholera Years: The 
                                United States
                             in 1832, 1849, and 1866 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1962), 121-32.
               
                  16 Recently 
                            Greene County
                        , Indiana, has registered the markers as the Bullerman Cemetery. In addition
                        Rosemary Haseman Williard, John Henry Bullermann's only surviving great-grandchild, inherited
                        the substantial farmhouse built by Bullermann in the 1870s and is restoring it to its
                        nineteenth-century condition. She is also the great-grandchild of Peter Schultze and a
                        great-great-grandchild of 
                            Jasper
                         and Elizabeth Schroer.
            
            
            
               JASPER BALTHASAR SCHROER
                        (1788-1849)
               Courtesy of Rosemary Haseman Williard, Downers Grove. 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
            
                    Epilogue
                
            The immigrants worked closely together in establishing homesteads and frequently married within their
                    group. An adjustment made early was the Anglicization of given names and some change in family
                    names; they dropped the final "n" from Bullermann, and Schroer frequently became
                    Shryer. These ethnocentric Rhinelanders would have found it difficult to imagine how quickly they
                    would assimilate culturally into the life of rural Indiana and of the 
                        United States
                     in 
                    
                  EIZABETH KRONEN SCHROER (1787-1865)
                  Courtesy of Rosemary Haseman Williard, Downers Grove, 
                                Illinois
                            
                  
                general. Gerhardt, a Bullermann brother who remained in 
                        Germany
                    , lamented in 1908 that John Henry's grandson had not learned sufficient German to carry
                    on a correspondence with him.17
            
            
               
                  17 Gerhardt Bullermann to John Henry Bullermann, August 28, 1908. (In the
                        possession of Rosemary Haseman Williard, Downers Grove, 
                            Illinois
                        ).
            
         
         
         
            The Night They Turned the Lights On in 
                        Wabash
                    
            
            
                    Peter Tocco
                    ∗
                
            This is the story of how 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, became the first town in the world to be generally lighted by electricity.
                    When first proposed, the lights seemed expensive and exotic to many town residents, some of whom
                    staunchly opposed them. The Age of Electricity was not yet born, light was still produced by fire,
                    and work was largely done by muscle power. This story examines the context in which electric
                    lighting emerged, the key role Americans (and midwesterners) played in the process, and the brief
                    claim to fame by 
                        Wabash
                     as the world's first electrically lighted town.1
            
            Since Ben 
                        Franklin
                     became the first person to put electricity to work by flying a kite, capturing an
                    electrical charge, and using it to ring a bell in his laboratory, Americans have shown a penchant
                    for electrical invention. 
                        Franklin
                    's discovery earned him international fame long before his career as a foreign diplomat.
                    Although Europeans such as Michael Faraday formulated many of the earliest electrical theories,
                    Americans excelled at putting electricity to work. By Thomas Edison's time, Americans had already
                    produced a series of groundbreaking inventions: Eli Whitney's cotton gin (1792)' Robert 
                        Fulton
                    's steamboat (1806)' Samuel Colt's revolver (1835), Samuel Morse's telegraph (1844)' and
                    Christopher Sholes's typewriter (1867), for example. French author Alexis de Tocqueville noted the
                    American flair for invention as early as the 1830s. But in the sphere of electricity, Americans
                    carved a special niche that remains at the core of their identity. With the likes of Alexander
                    Graham Bell's telephone 
                  
                     ∗ Peter Tocco is a technical) illustrator and writer living
                            in 
                        Columbia, Maryland
                     .
                  
                     1 The 
                                Wabash
                             arc lights were designed to illuminate when a dc voltage was placed across two
                            carbon rods approximately one-half inch thick and twelve inches in length, placed vertically
                            one on top of the other and separated by a slight gap. Soon after Alessandro Volta invented
                            a battery in 1800, scientists discovered that a spark would leap across two wires connected
                            to a battery's terminals, but it took approximately eighty years for inventors to develop
                            the right kind of voltage generators, carbon rods, and a means of regulating the gap as the
                            rods burned in order to produce a commercially practical light. The incandescent bulb
                            invented by Edison in 1879 was, however, a vacuum-chamber glass bulb much like today's
                            lights, which contained a small high-resistance paper carbon filament, and burned much
                            cooler and dimmer than the arc light. Today's incandescent bulb features a tungsten
                            filament, invented around 1910. See "Creating the Electric Age," Electric Power Research Institute Journal, 4 (March 1979), 19, 25.
               
                    
                    
                  WABASH COUNTY COURTHOUSE
                  
                  Reprodused from Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 240.
               
                     (1876), Edison's phonograph (1877), and scores of other
                    inventions up to and including personal computers, Americans have had a special way with electrical
                    devices.
            At the stroke of eight o'clock on March 8,1880, a dark and drizzly Wednesday night in 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, four arc lights of three thousand candle power suspended from the courthouse
                    flagstaff were turned on. An eyewitness described the peculiar crowd reaction:
            
                    Suddenly from the towering dome of the courthouse burst a flood of light, which under ordinary
                        circumstances would have caused a shout of rejoicing from the thousands who
                        had been crowding and jostling each other in the evening's darkness. No shout or token of joy,
                        however, disturbed the deep silence that suddenly settled on the vast crowd that had gathered
                        from far and near to witness the consummation of a singular enterprise. The people, almost with
                        bated breath, stood overwhelmed with awe as if they were near a supernatural presence. The
                        strange, weird light, exceeded in power only by the sun, yet mild as moonlight, rendered the
                        courthouse square as light as mid-day.2
               
                
            A number of people who had been present at the lighting shared their reminiscences at the event's
                    fiftieth anniversary celebration in 
                        Wabash
                    . One of them recalled an elderly man living on the edge of town who, unaware of the
                    experiment, was in his barnyard when the lights went on. "Down on your knees,
                    Mary!" he exclaimed, running into the house with bulging eyes, "The end of the
                    world's here!" Another eyewitness, Dr. James Biggerstaff of 
                        Wabash
                    , recalled, "I was just a boy, but it was one of the greatest thrills of my
                    life. I remember that five miles away you could see the horse and buggy cast a shadow, so you know
                    the light was far-reaching." The town was packed with visitors, many of them highly
                    skeptical, he recalled. "And such a hurrahing and shouting as went up from those thousands
                    of persons when the light flashed on, after a minute of stunned silent surprise—you never
                    have heard!"3
            
            So great was the initial interest in the lighting that 
                        Wabash
                    's Western Union office worked late into the night telegraphing information to large
                    daily newspapers across the country, which ran the following headlines: "
                        Wabash
                     Enjoys the Distinction of Being the Only City in the World Entirely Lighted by
                    Electricity," "The Entire City Brilliantly Lighted and Shadows Cast at Midnight on
                    Buildings Five Miles Away," "The Test of the Brush Electric Light Witnessed by
                    10,000 People and Councils of 19 Cities."4
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, however, paid scant attention to the event, mentioning the next day in its
                    state news summary only that a preliminary test of the lights in 
                        Wabash
                     had been a complete success. Two days later, the News printed this
                    brief report in its state news summary: "The average report of the illumination of 
                        Wabash
                    
                    
                  
                     2 Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 240
                  
                     3
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer, July 26, 1930.
                  
                            4
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     is that the electric light made the streets exposed to its
                    direct rays almost as light as day, but those in the shadows were correspondingly dark, and offered
                    unusual facilities for the operations and escape of thieves and burglars."5
            
            Important journals such as the Scientific American were mere favorable. "
                        Wabash
                    , Ind., boasts of being the first town to adopt the electric light for general
                    illumination…. The tests were said to be satisfactory. Many visitors from the adjoining
                    towns were present to witness the first trial of the new method."6 One
                    of 
                        Wabash
                    's two newspapers, the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    Plain Dealer, wrote that "Yesterday morning the city of 
                        Wabash
                     woke up and found itself famous. It is today the best advertised town in the 
                        United States
                    . From 
                        Maine
                     to 
                        California
                     the telegrams of the Associated Press flashed the intelligence that the problem of
                    lighting the streets of an entire city solely by electricity had been solved."7
            
            In fact, the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    Plain Dealer played a pivotal role in procuring the lights and also in putting
                    down opposition to the lights. The paper's chief editors, T. P. Keator and Thad 
                        Butler
                    , had first come up with the idea for the lights. Keator was strolling one night through 
                        Wabash
                    , with its elegant one-year-old courthouse perched high on a hillside overlooking the
                    town, when he remarked to 
                        Butler
                     that, "If you had a barrel of tar on the dome of the court house and set it on
                    fire it would light up the whole city."8 The idea of electric lights
                    followed naturally as inventor Charles Brush had made headlines the previous year when he tested his
                    electric lights in a public square in 
                        Cleveland
                    .
            Keator and 
                        Butler
                     traveled to 
                        Cleveland
                     to meet Brush, who was eager for an opportunity to test the latest improvements to his
                    lights. At the time, 
                        Wabash
                    's gas street lights, although not extensive, were a considerable drain on the town
                    budget. The prospect of a far cheaper system was probably a key factor in the town council's
                    decision to authorize Keator and 
                        Butler
                     to strike a deal with Brush whereby the town would pay Brush one hundred dollars to
                    install the lights for a trial period.9 The terms also specified that the lights
                    should illuminate a half-mile radius with the brilliance of a standard-size gas burner at all
                    points, thus lighting most of the town. This was a distinction upon which 
                        Wabash
                     would later base its claim to being the world's first city to be
                    "generally" lighted by electricity. If fully satisfied, the 
                        Wabash
                     council could purchase the lights and generating equipment for $1,800.
            
               
                  5 Ihdianapolis News, April 1, 3, 1880.
               
                  6 "A Town Lighted by Electricity," Scientific American, 43 (May 1880).
               
                  7
                        
                            Wabash
                        
                        Plain Dealer, July 26, 1930.
               
                  8 Thad 
                            Butler
                        , "Recollections of 
                            Wabash
                        , 1864-1881" (paper delivered at the Diamond Celebration and Old Settlers'
                        Meeting, 
                            Wabash
                        , Indiana, September 7, 1910).
               
                        9
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               CHARLES F. BRUSH
               
               Reproduced from Charles F. Brush, "The Arc-Light" Century Magazine, LXX (May 1905), 111.
            
            
            In the weeks preceding the lights' debut, the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    Plain Dealer tried hard to arouse public interest. Only three months prior to
                    March 1880, Thomas Edison's light bulb had begun attracting great attention in Menlo Park, 
                        New Jersey
                    . Edison had spent more than a year working on the lights and had made some premature
                    and boastful claims about them. Not until the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald's exclusive story on Edison's lights in late December of 1879 prompted
                    thousands of people to travel to see the lights did the cloud of doubt begin to subside. Even though
                    the lights produced only a dim glow, visitors found them to be absolutely spellbinding.10 Perhaps it was this event that inspired the 
                        Wabash
                     planners to turn their lighting debut into a public spectacle. The Plain
                        Dealer announced that special reduced-rate excursion trains would be bringing one of the
                    largest crowds ever assembled in 
                        Wabash
                    . The paper also promised,
            
                    Those who come can rest assured of seeing the first city in the world that proposes to be
                        illuminated by a single light, and also one of the most beautiful artificial lights in the
                        world; a light that shows all the beautiful colors as distinctly as the sun, and gleams as pure
                        and white as the full moon. 
                            Wabash
                         extends to the entire country a cordial and hearty invitation to come and see this
                        marvel of the nineteenth century, which already is a success of years' standing in all the large
                        cities of this country and Europe and which promises to open up a new era in the illumination of
                            cities.11
               
                
            In his recollection thirty years after the lighting, 
                        Butler
                     remembered his partner Keator as a "natural boomer, fertile in imagination,
                    resourceful, and ready to gamble on futures.12 While newfangled technology
                    always tends to attract wild-eyed dreamers such as Keator, the same technology simply rankles
                    others, such as certain 
                        Wabash
                     council members, who were particularly hostile to the idea of electric street lights. 
                        Butler
                     referred to a one-week trial period in his recollections, instead of the four-week
                    period cited in newspapers and other sources of the 1880s.13 Perhaps 
                        Butler
                     and Keator had originally negotiated a one-week trial with Brush but later felt
                    compelled to extend the trial to four weeks to help placate a nervous and skeptical town council. In
                    any case, 
                        Butler
                     confessed in a publication for the Old Settlers' Meeting at 
                        Wabash
                     in 1910 that "no two men ever passed a more anxious period." Having
                    exhausted the whole $1,800 before being paid by the council, they both "stared
                    bankruptcy in the face." 
                        Butler
                     added that two council members by the names of Lutz and Hubbard, who were
                    "personally friendly but hostile politically, saw the opportunity to have some fun with us,
                    and the opposition they put up to the appropriation was something fierce."14
            
            
               
                        Wabash
                     had been laid out some forty-six years earlier in anticipation of the 
                        Wabash
                    -Erie Canal, which, by one optimistic assessment, 
                  
                     10 "Creating the Electric Age," 12.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Weekly Plain Dealer, March 6, 1880.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Butler
                            , "Recollections of 
                                Wabash
                            ."
                  
                     13 Helm, History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                
                     , 240.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Butler
                            , "Recollections of 
                                Wabash
                            ."
               
                    
                    
                  FIRST BRUSH DYNAMO
                  
                  Reproduced from Charles F. Brush, "The Arc-Light" Century Magazine, LXX (May 1905). 112.
                was supposed to push back the frontier six hundred miles. By 1880, the canal at 
                        Wabash
                     had already been abandoned for ten years. No doubt the canal failure, still fresh in
                    the minds of many, left a lingering financial burden on towns such as 
                        Wabash
                     and helped to augment the widespread skepticism toward any government-financed public
                    project. To many the lights seemed a visionary scheme and Keator's enthusiasm seemed absolutely
                    foolish. Butler said, "I doubt whether Lutz and Hubbard would have antagonized [sic] the appropriation so tenaciously had not Keator grown over-enthusiastic and
                    in public print declared that one probable result would be that the effect of the electric lights
                    would double the yield of corn on the adjacent bottom lands and enable the city residents to raise
                    two crops of garden stuff each season!"15 The immediate success of the
                    lights put some of the criticism to rest. The town council paid for the lights two weeks after their
                    installation, presumably ending 
                        Butler
                     and Keator's week of high anxiety.
            Fiercely opposing the lighting proposal was the town's other newspaper, the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    Courier, a Democratic paper edited by Lee Linn. 
                        Butler
                     recalled the feud over lighting as "the most bitter quarrel in the annals of
                    State journalism.16 The feud apparently continued 
                  
                            15
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            16
                            Ibid
                        
               
                     after the lighting incident. 
                        Butler
                     observed that "everybody anticipated a tragedy," which almost came
                    about one evening when Linn and Keator met while walking on the street. According to 
                        Butler
                    , words were exchanged, and Linn put his revolver to Keator's throat; but the city
                    marshal and others intervened. Linn was fined for carrying a concealed weapon. "For several
                    months," 
                        Butler
                     wrote, "We all carried guns, but there was no further outbreak."
                    Dozens of strongly worded letters published by the papers remain the best record of public
                    sentiment. The letters conveyed shock and outrage because by 1880 no other city in the U.S. had ever
                    purchased an electric street lighting system.
            Keator's enthusiastic claims also served as a point of contention. His original assertion that the
                    lights would illuminate fine print eight miles from the courthouse drew letters of ridicule and
                    criticism. When Keator amended his statement by claiming the light would "not light up the
                    country more than a mile distant," he was ridiculed again for changing his position.17 Some letters suspected a conflict of interest. One long and detailed letter
                    in particular alleged a conspiracy to defraud the taxpayers of 
                        Wabash
                    . "Mr. James McCrea, a member of the City Council," it began,
                    "is exhibiting entirely too much zeal in his efforts to saddle the electric light fraud
                    upon the taxpayers of 
                        Wabash
                    … he has manifested a recklessness and extravagance almost beyond parallel
                    and it is high time that a check were placed upon him." The letter stated that the Plain Dealer's office building was mortgaged to McCrea "for more than it
                    would sell at a forced sale." The Plain Dealer was in financial straits
                    due to "bad management and extravagant living," giving McCrea reason to fear for
                    his investment. The paper was to receive payment from Brush of several hundred dollars, the writer
                    claimed, a portion of which would go to McCrea.18 One letter writer declared
                    that he was ready to bet ten to one that the lights would fail. Another claimed that nine-tenths of
                    the citizens opposed the light. Another person agreed. "We doubt if a dozen men can be
                    found in the city of 
                        Wabash
                     who are in favor of the City Council contracting for Brush & Co's 10,000 candle
                    power electric light. The members of the City Council and the proprietors of the Plain
                        Dealer are about the only advocates of the light."19
                    "Why not make a contract with the man on the moon?" asked Lee Linn, editor of the
                        Courier, "He'll furnish light half the time anyway."20 "Wouldn't it have been better had the City Council decided to keep
                        
                  
                     17
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer, April 1, 1979. All of the 1880 letters to the 
                                Wabash
                             newspapers quoted in this article are from this source.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            19
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     20 Nancy Bickel, "Forum, the Readers Corner," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star Magazine(clipping in 
                                Wabash
                             Carnegie Public Library vertical file, n,d., although probably from the 1960s
                            or 1970s).
               
                    
                    
                  EARLIEST COMMERCLAL BRUAH ARC-LAMPE
                  
                  Reproduced from Charles F. Brush, "The Arc-Light" Century Magazine, LXX (May, 1905), 113.
               
                     hands off of Brush & Co's 10,000 candle power electric
                    light until it had been practically tested by other cities?" one man queried21 Little did 
                        Wabash
                     residents know that they were to receive the first installation of a new design that
                    would finally give electric lights commercial success. After 
                        Wabash
                    , Brush's arc lighting experienced a steep increase in sales.
            Agricultural issues were of course a key consideration, although they were something of a red
                    herring. "The Plain Dealer says the electric light will virtually turn
                    night into day, and as chickens never sleep during daylight it is only a matter of time when every
                    fowl within the corporate limits of 
                        Wabash
                     will die for lack of sleep," wrote one resident. Another person thought local
                    farmers in particular should help pay for the lights since they would allow farmers to plow night
                    and day. Others predicted that corn in the vicinity might double in size, requiring saws to harvest
                    it, or that nighttime raccoon hunting in the area might enjoy such a boost that the price of coon
                    dogs would be driven beyond reach. The notion that crops would become vastly more productive under
                    electric lighting was apparently not without support among scientists. The Plain
                    Dealer cited an article published in the 
                        London
                    
                    Spectator about Dr. Werner Seimens, a German scientist, and a lecture he gave to
                    the Royal Society in which he stated that plants do not need rest and grow faster when exposed to
                    electric lights at night.22
            
            The first arc light, invented by British scientist Sir Humphrey Davy in 1808, occupied an entire room
                    containing two thousand voltaic cells. Davy discovered that electricity could be made to leap from
                    one carbon rod to another, thus producing a brilliant light.23 As a young boy
                    growing up near Wickliffe, 
                        Ohio
                    , Charles Brush read scientific literature voraciously and experimented on his own with
                    electromagnets, induction coils, motors, and other electrical devices. The textbook description of
                    an arc light, however, held a particular fascination for him, and when he finally got enough
                    batteries together to make one it filled him with "joy unspeakable."24
            
            Early arc lights had a number of severe limitations. Besides being expensive and hard to power, a
                    proper gap had to be maintained between the carbon rods, which shrank as they burned. Also, the
                    lights' extreme brilliance was only suitable for outdoor use or large indoor spaces. Nevertheless,
                    arc lights found use in specialty applications such as a 
                        Paris
                     opera house in 1846 and a lighthouse designed by Michael Faraday in 1862. The situation
                    began to change 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer, April 1, 1979.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid. First printed in the Plain Dealer, May 14, 1880.
                            Seimens, a German counterpart to America's Edison, founded the Seimens Company, which was a
                            pioneer in the electrical industry.
                  
                     23 "Creating the Electric Age," 19.
                  
                     24 Charles Brush, "The Are Light," Century Magazine, LXX (May 1905), 110-18.
               
                     in the early 1870s when the Gramme dynamo appeared in 
                        Paris
                    . Considered by Brush to be the first "really efficient" dynamo25, it was used to light a handful of European stores and factories. But since a
                    separate dynamo and a complex mechanical system were required for each light, it remained too
                    expensive for general use. Inspired by the Gramme dynamo, Brush began developing a
                    "distinctly new" dynamo and arc light, which he unveiled at the 
                        Franklin
                     Institute in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1877.26 By 1878, half a mile of a street in 
                        Paris
                     was lined with arc lights. That same year Brush's lights were used at a gala reception
                    for former President Ulysses Grant at a 
                        San Francisco
                     hotel, capping his world tour. A handful of stores and factories also used the Brush
                    lights during this period.27 According to Brush, the twelve lights that he
                    installed in a public square in 
                        Cleveland
                     in April 1879 were the first electric street lights in the 
                        United States
                    . One problem with the lights, however, was the need for someone to install fresh
                    carbons at intervals throughout the night. His improved design, which was tested in 
                        Wabash
                     for the first time, solved this problem as well as others. Brush was able to sell six
                    thousand units of the improved lights in 1880, the first year of explosive growth both for his
                    company and the electric lighting industry in general.28
            
            Only weeks after the lighting of 
                        Wabash
                    , Brush secured a major contract to supply the British navy with 432 lights, beating out
                    the leading European are light companies.29 Another major success that year came
                    in December when his company began installing arc lights on 
                        Broadway
                     in 
                        New York City
                    , eventually extending from Fourteenth to Thirty-fourth streets.30
                    His biggest success as an inventor, however, was perhaps his patent for the first lead-acid battery,
                    although this would cost him five years of litigation with Edison. Brush's company was eventually
                    absorbed into the conglomerate that became General Electric, with Edison's companies as its
                        nucleus.31
            
            By comparison, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , seventy miles south of 
                        Wabash
                    , with a population of about 60,000 in 1880, much larger than 
                        Wabash
                    's 3,000, did not receive electric lighting until January 1882, when arc lights were
                    installed in the city's Union Railway Station on South 
                        Illinois
                     Street. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Brush Electric Company had proposed to replace the city's gas street lights in 1881,
                    but the city council rejected the proposal at that time. Arc lights enjoyed a boom period of about
                    seven years in 
                        Indianapolis
                     until Edison's incandescent lighting 
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     27 "Creating the Electric Age," 22, 23, 56; Herbert
                            W. Meyer, A History of Electricity and Magnetism (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), 156; Brush, "Arc Light," 110-118.
                  
                     28 Brush, "Arc Light," 110-118.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer, April 1, 1979.
                  
                     30 Brush, "Arc Light," 110-118.
                  
                     31 "Creating the Electric Age," 24; Earleen Ulery,
                            "Brush III Sheds Light on Grandfather," 
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer (clipping in 
                                Wabash
                             Carnegie Public Library vertical file "
                                Wabash
                             Co.-electric lights," n.d., probably late 1970s).
               
                    
                    
                  EARLY BRUSH ELECTROPLATING DYNAMO
                  
                  Reproduced from Charles F. Brush, "The Arc-Light" Century Magazine, LXX (May 1905), 112.
                began to replace them in the late 1880s. The first instance of incandescent lighting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     occurred Thanksgiving Day 1888, when the Park Theater on the northwest corner of
                    Capitol Avenue and 
                        Illinois
                     Street became the first theater west of the Alleghenies to depend entirely on
                    electricity for lighting. The light system included 741 light bulbs of 16 candle power, with each
                    bulb using about 90 watts of electricity to produce the light output of a modern fifteen-watt
                        bulb.32 Arc lights for the purpose of common municipal street lighting
                    became generally obsolete within a five-to-ten-year period because of Edison's incandescent light
                    bulb. In September 1882, Edison finally opened the Pearl Street Station generator in 
                        New York City
                    , more than two years after Brush had released the first truly successful lights.
                    Powered by steam, Edison's generator distributed dc current as far as five thousand feet to a total
                    of fifty-nine customers.33
            
            The Edison lighting system, clearly superior to the Brush system, began quickly to displace arc
                    lights. After eight years of use, the 
                        Wabash
                     arc lights were among those replaced. Arc lights thus became possibly the first in a
                    long line of popular electrical devices to end up in junk yards within a short period of time.
                    Sometime in 
                  
                     32 Zane G. Todd, Electrifying 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The Story of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Power & Light Company (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977), 8, 13.
                  
                     33 "Creating the Electric Age," 22-25.
               
                     the early 1920s, the original 
                        Wabash
                     lights were sold to a junk dealer for $13. One of the four lights was
                    eventually salvaged and put on display in the courthouse. When the Henry Ford Museum wanted to buy
                    it, 
                        Wabash
                     would not part with it.34 The light is still displayed in the 
                        Wabash
                     courthouse.
            On one level, the lights of 
                        Wabash
                     tell a story of two newspaper editors stirring up deep passions in horse-and-buggy
                    America by introducing a new and unproved technology. On the other hand, the 
                        Wabash
                     incident marked the beginning of a period of rapid technological advancement. In the
                    following fifteen years, people went from seeing electricity as a strange and fearful oddity to
                    something that could save them labor, provide them with new comforts, and entertain them in new
                    ways. By almost sheer luck, 
                        Wabash
                     became the proving grounds for a particular design that would suddenly convince cities
                    around the world that they had a need for electric power. Since March 31, 1880, the use of
                    electricity has spread rapidly across the earth.
            The struggle in 
                        Wabash
                     over street lighting was perhaps also a harbinger of the much larger struggle to come
                    over electrical distribution systems. In the fifteen years following 1880, inventors, corporations,
                    and financial moguls scrambled to establish the dominant form of electrical power. Dubbed
                    "the battle of the currents" by the press, this struggle was driven by two chief
                    groups: Thomas Edison and his faction in favor of direct current (dc) power distribution and the
                    much smaller faction lead by George Westinghouse, who advocated alternating current (ac) power.35
            
            While Edison was a man who could invent stock tickers, phonographs, and light bulbs, he had very
                    little formal schooling and worked mostly by trial and error. Hence he completely failed to see the
                    value of alternating current, which depended heavily on theories so nebulous that only a handful of
                    people could comprehend them at the outset. Nikola Tesla, the man who discovered the key concepts of
                    rotating magnetic fields that made ac motors, generators, and transmitters possible, eventually
                    found work as an assistant at Edison's laboratory, but his ideas were not well received there. He
                    left to work for Westinghouse, an inventor who himself had been trying to harness ac current. With
                    Westinghouse's help, Tesla brought his ideas to fruition and in 1888 registered the patents that
                    became the cornerstone of the modern industrial world.36
            
            The next several years witnessed a struggle between the forces of Edison and Westinghouse. Edison
                    tried to sway public opinion by 
                  
                     34 Josef Mossman, "
                                Wabash
                            , First City of Electric Illumination Celebrates 57th Anniversary of Historic
                            Event," 
                                Wabash
                            
                            Plain Dealer, March 31, 1937.
                  
                     35 Inez Hunt and Wanetta W. Draper, Lightning in his
                                Hand: The Life Story of Nikola Tesla (
                                Denver
                            , Col., 1964), 22.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 22.
               
                     promoting the dangers of ac power, but it became increasingly
                    clear that dc power could not be efficiently distributed over distances. A major showdown occurred
                    when the two sides bid for the lucrative lighting contract of the 1893 
                        Chicago
                     World's Fair, which would require thousands of incandescent lights. Westinghouse won,
                    with Edison receiving a much smaller concession to provide, of all things, outdoor arc lighting.37 When the Niagara Falls generating contract was awarded to Westinghouse in
                    1893, there was no question that the nascent power industry would adopt the ac power system as the
                    standard. The rest of the world soon followed suit. Ironically, however, although electric power is
                    barely a century old, a mere infant on the scale of epochs, it has long ago lost the luster and
                    magic with which it commanded the minds and hearts of the people of 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, in March of 1880.
            
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 78.
            
         
         
         
            Grist Mills of 
                        Delaware County
                    , Indiana
            
                    Gerald E. Waite
                    ∗
                
            Western civilization has always depended on two crucial elements: water and bread. It is well known
                    that these are biological necessities, and yet few people really consider their impact on the
                    settlement of the New World or the part they have played in the development of modern culture. Most
                    people in this society can go to the store and buy breads, pies, rolls, and all the other
                    flour-based products they will ever need without dealing with flour in raw form. In the generation
                    that is currently coming of age it will be possible for people to go their entire lives and never
                    purchase a five-pound bag of flour or know what to do with it if they did. However, in the recent
                    past, subsistence activities required not only the acquisition of flour, but in many cases the
                    processing of grain to flour or meal as a necessary part of family life. In the early part of this
                    century, and most certainly in the nineteenth century, almost every person had some role in the
                    processing of grist. Grains such as corn and wheat can be converted to usable form only by the
                    application of some form of energy. The preferred and most efficient source of that power in early
                    America was water. From the first millennium B.C. to the early twentieth century, grist mills,
                    particularly water-driven ones, were the centers around which human society organized; consequently
                    it follows that settlement patterns of the eighteenth and nineteenth century in the 
                        United States
                     focused on water, both to consume and to use as a source of power.1
            
            Grist and flour mills were among the oldest and the largest American businesses of the first half of
                    the nineteenth century.2 Almost every village and town established in the
                    westward expansion of the 
                        United States
                     had one or more water-powered mills. The early mills in Indiana were principally for
                    local use and, because of the limited transportation system of the time, did little or no commercial
                    milling other than that which could be locally consumed. Sophisticated storage was limited and grain
                    stored better than corn meal or flour, 
                  
                     ∗ Gerald F. Waite is professor of anthropology, Ball State
                            University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 John Storck and Walter Dorwin Teague, Flour for Man's
                                Bread: A History of Milling (
                                Minneapolis
                            , Minn., 1952), 71.
                  
                     2 Herman Steen, Flour Milling in America (1963;
                            reprint, 
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1973), 32.
               
                    
                    
                  CARTER MILL AT EATON
                  
                  Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society
                so milling was often done monthly or quarterly at the longest interval. Some mills were
                    divided in time between two or more different products. Many were owned and operated by local
                    farmers and were shut down several days a week or completely during peak farming times. Others that
                    were lucky enough to be located along the path of a railroad or in the county seats became known as
                    "merchant mills." Many of these mills were prosperous enough to incorporate
                    changes that made the mass production of flour possible.
            Most resources on the subject of milling indicate two major "revolutions" in the
                    processes of American milling. The first was created by Oliver Evans in the construction of a mill
                    near Wilmington, 
                        Delaware
                    , in 1785.3 This mill built by Evans and his brother incorporated
                    automation in order to replace those carrying operations that had before been done by manual labor.
                    Initially, American millers saw the mill as "a set of rattle traps."4 By 1808, however, Evans found it necessary to appeal to Congress for aid and relief in
                    patent infringement from other millers, including Thomas Jefferson. Evans's designs were complex and
                    required capitalization beyond the means of most part-time millers, but those operations that were
                    involved in the merchant trade or the flour export business could not afford to ignore the
                    labor-saving features of the Evans patents. The incorporation of 
                  
                     3 Storck and Teague, Flour for Man's Bread, 161
                  
                            4
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     these devices helped to create the larger mills that were
                    capable of production for regional distribution as transportation improved.
            The second revolution of the industry involved transportation itself. Originally, small grist mills
                    thrived because of a lack of transportation networks. Beginning in the 1850s railroads and improved
                    transportation began to create regional markets and larger business enterprises. By the 1870s
                    railroads had grown from a scant 10,000 miles of track in pre-Civil War days to over 60,000 miles,
                    with a continuing increase of more than 100,000 miles more by the 1880s.5 Steam
                    engines of the era required water just as the mills did, so it was natural that the railroads and
                    mills, especially the ones in population centers, should meet. During the 1870s steam power was also
                    on the increase in mills. Those mills that were considered commercial and could afford the
                    capitalization added steam initially as a form of back up power and later as primary power.
            On the principal waterways of 
                        Delaware County
                    —the White and the Mississinewa rivers—the remains of at least
                    fourteen of possibly twenty mills can be found. Some are easily visible, with features like manmade
                    raceways and foundations still protruding through the river sediment. Others have been graded into
                    near oblivion by housing or industrial development, but even these sites can be identified with some
                    knowledge of historical sources and settlement-era technology. As far as is known, all of these
                    mills were of the vertical type. Vertical mills used two large round stones with two flat surfaces,
                    one on top of the other, driven by water power from a wheel to mill various types of grains.6 In most cases, different sets of stones were used for different grains, and in
                    most of the literature of the time each set of stones was referred to as a "run of
                        stone."7 Some of the smaller mills might have run corn one day and
                    wheat another with the same set of stones, but this practice was viewed generally as a poor way to
                    process grain because the stones were worked to accommodate a particular grain size. Helm's History of 
                            Delaware County
                        
                mentions the types of stones used many times; however, the only specific
                    mention of the millstone sources is one set of pink granite stone that was quarried in the
                    "East" and shipped to the county and another reference to stones that were shaped
                    from native river stone.8 For example, a run of stone might be described as
                    "native granite" hauled from another state or taken from the river bed and worked
                    for the milling process. In sources such as Helm or Storck and Teague, informants of the time
                    indicated that the quality and location of the stones directly affected the quality of the flour
                        produced.9 Storck and 
                  
                     5 Steen, Flour Milling in America, 39.
                  
                     6 Storck and Teague, Flour for Man's Bread, 143-74.
                  
                     7 Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 34.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 34.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid.; Storck and Teague, Flour for Man's Bread, 146;
                            Charles Howell and Allan Keller, The Mill at Philipsburg Manor, Upper Mills and
                                a Brief History of Milling (Tarrytown, N.Y., c. 1977), 67-91.
               
                     Teague mention stones imported from 
                        France
                    , but they do not say whether those stones found their way to 
                        Delaware County
                    .10
            
            Prior to 1850 not fewer than twenty mills, perhaps more, existed in 
                        Delaware County
                    . Several of these evolved into the merchant mills of the second half of the century,
                    but the real importance of these mills is their relationship to the first settlers. Oliver Johnson,
                    an early settler, sums it up best:
            
                    The little log mills spotted around the county was mighty essential to the settlers. They ground
                        our corn into meal and I don't reckon we could get by without cornbread…. The mills
                        used stone burrs and ground mighty slow. It took about an hour to grind a bushel or two of corn,
                        and at that it wasn't much more than finely cracked. There was no money charged for grindin; the
                        miller tolled your grist by takin out one eighth of the corn as his pay. Sometimes the miller
                        was several days behind with his grindin, and the rule was first come first served. If a family
                        was out of meal an stood in purty well with the miller, he might take pity on you and slip your
                        grist in ahead of the others. Or you could leave your grist and take another home with you.11
               
                
            The 1810 census statement of "Arts and Manufactures" lists flour production in
                    Indiana as an "Article of Doubtful Nature or Agricultural," but no accurate
                    breakdown by county is available until after 1850. In the 1810 census Indiana is listed as having
                    milling production of 1,500 bushels in its one wheat mill, with a market value of $7,500,
                    and thirty-two "grist" mills with 40,900 bushels equal to about $44,708
                    in value (figure 11).12 By 1850 milling production in the state had reached
                    $5,564,091 (figure 21, and the same manufacturing index records show a value of at least
                    $46,900 from 
                        Delaware County
                    .13 This figure is probably not a true indicator of the milling
                    capabilities, however, because the census seems to list only those establishments that were classed
                    as "merchant mills" and their gross cash revenues. This approach apparently
                    excludes the value of barter and the revenues of some of the smaller agricultural establishments.
                    The 1850 census indicates that there were only seven mills surveyed in the county; there were,
                    however, fourteen known mills in 1840 and probably more before 1850, since that seems to be one of
                    the times of the largest growth in the milling business in the county. This problem may reflect
                    either the way the census was taken or the reporting system of the time.14 By
                    the 1860 census, records were compiled 
                  
                     10 Storck and Teague, Flour for Man's Bread, 160.
                  
                     11 Oliver Johnson, quoted in Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker,
                            eds., Readings in Indiana History (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1956), 393.
                  
                     12 U.S., Treasury Department, A Statement of the Arts and
                                Manufactures of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America for the year 1810 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1814), 163; U.S., Census Office, Digest of Accounts of
                                Manufacturing Establishments in the 
                                    United States
                                 and of their Manufactures (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1823), 31; U.S., Census Office, Aggregate Value and
                                Produce, and Number of Persons Employed in Mines, Agriculture, Commerce,
                            Manufacturing, etc. (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1841), 331.
                  
                     13 U.S., Census Office, Abstract of the Statistics of
                                Manufactures according to the returns of the seventh census (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1851), 51.
                  
                     14 U.S., Census Ofice, Aggregate Value and Produce,
                            331; U.S., Census Office, Abstract of Statistics of Manufactures, seventh
                                census, 51.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1.
                  Reproduced from U.S., Treasury Department, A Statement of the Arts
                                and Manufactures of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America for the year 1810 (
                                Philadelphia
                            . 1814). 163.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 2.
                  Reproduced from U.S., Cesus Office, Abstract of the Statistics of
                                Manufactures according to the returns of the seventh census (
                                Washington
                            , 1851), 51.
               
                     by county to indicate commercial production of "flour
                    and meal." There were eight commercial flouring establishments listed. They employed
                    twenty-two people and accounted for $331,232 of product (figure 3). Once again, this
                    figure may be deceptively low because only about one-half of the actual grist mills were counted.
                    The others may have been part time, agricultural, or noncommercial in nature.
            An indicator of the multiple use of grist mills or milling facilities may be found in the census
                    records relating to lumber and other mill products. Also, Helm's History of 
                            Delaware County
                        
                contains accounts of the many products produced at Gilbert's mill, one of the
                    first merchant mills in the county.15 The mill is said to have produced most of
                    the lumber used to build the early town of 
                        Muncie
                     and was also used for wool carding and liquor. If other mills were this diversified,
                    then figures such as $34,460 in lumber, $2,800 in wool carding,
                    $6,915 in woolen goods, and $8,000 in malt liquor may be a more honest
                    indicator of the output of the milling industry in the county at that time.16
                    Multiple product utilization of milling facilities is not accurately reflected in the early census
                    returns. Corn, classified as Indian corn and yellow corn, shows as an agricultural product as early
                    as 1820. Nevertheless, corn is not specifically listed until the 1850 census.17
                    Up to that time, mill production is listed as grist or flour only, so other products being processed
                    are not specified.
            The census of 1870 is a much more sophisticated survey of American business and milling products, but
                    it shows primarily commercial figures and may be unreliable for judging actual mill activity within
                    a specific area. This census has a table of the various grist mill products manufactured in 1870,
                    listed by county (figure 4). The overall statistics presented in this figure reveal the growth of
                    the industry in the state. One problem is that economic indicators such as inflation are not
                    accounted for and probably cannot be in the absence of consistent data. Some figures, although
                    sketchy, would indicate that between the years 1820 and 1880 a bushel of wheat increased in dollar
                    value as much as four times. This would make monetary figures highly unreliable as indicators of
                    industrial growth. The 1870 census shows 
                        Delaware County
                     flour production at almost the same level as ten years earlier, $328,000 in
                    gross product. This figure is confusing since it is surveying eleven establishments that are thought
                    to be superior to the previous eight.18 Accurately assessing the value of
                    production is even more problematic when it is viewed 
                  
                     15 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 32-38.
                  
                     16 U.S., Treasury Department, Statement of Arts and
                                Manufactures 1810, 163; U.S., Census Office, Digest of Accounts of
                                Manufacturing Establishments, 31; US., Census Office, Aggregate Value
                                and Produce, 331.
                  
                     17 U.S., Census Office, Abstract of statistics of
                                Manufactures, seventh census, 51.
                  
                     18 U.S., Census Office, Manufactures of the 
                                    United States
                                 in 1860 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1861), 119; US., Census Office, Statistics of the Wealth
                                and Industry of the 
                                    United States
                                 from the returns of the ninth census (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1871), 656.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 3.
                  Reproduced from U.S., Census Office, Manufactures of the 
                                    United States
                                 in 1860 (
                                Washington
                            , 1861), 119.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 4.
                  Reproduced from U.S., Census Office, Statistics of the Wealth and
                                Industry of the 
                                    United States
                                 from the returns of the ninth census (
                                Washington
                            , 1871), 656.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 5.
                  Reproduced from U.S., Census Office, Report of the Manufactures of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                 at the tenth census (
                                Washington
                            , 1881), 225.
               
                     in the context of the overall growth of the grist mill industry
                    in the state during the same time. Millers may have shifted toward associated products that were not
                    counted as milling industry production. These products mentioned earlier had climbed considerably in
                    value and were now worth $95,360—a $51,185 increase over the
                    previous census. The $328,000 valuation may indicate either a decline in the production
                    of flour or a diversification of mill resources or both. Finally, the heading of "Flouring
                    and Mill Products" may give no real indicator of anything other than commercial flour
                        production.19
            
            The 1880 census is the last one found with any specific grist mill data. It indicates a definite
                    decline in the flouring output of 
                        Delaware County
                    . Production for this year was only $226,999 of product value in twelve
                    establishments surveyed. This may indicate the larger flow of outside goods from improved
                    transportation systems. Once again though, related products had soared and were worth
                    $219,472. The census records for the county no longer mentioned malt liquor and
                        distilling.20 Milling figures and accounts became scarcer toward the end of
                    the nineteenth century, when most of the 
                        Delaware County
                     mills were either abandoned or torn down. A few of the structures remained standing
                    well into the twentieth century. Some of the remains have been surveyed and mapped, while others,
                    especially those close to population centers, were leveled many years ago. This survey located
                    several sites on the Mississinewa River in the northern part of the county, but found no remains on
                    the White River. The following is an account by township of those grist mills
                    that are documented in the Manufacturing Index of the 
                            United States
                         Census and in Helm's History of 
                            Delaware County
                        .
            
            
                    Center Township
                
            Mill sites within Center Township are all inside the city of 
                        Muncie
                    . No remains are left, but documentation is fairly complete. The first mill in 
                        Muncie
                     was a lumber and grist mill built by Goldsmith C. Gilbert between 1828 and 1829. The
                    original structure was a two-and-one-half-story building near the north end of 
                        Franklin
                     street [see map p. 379, 1]. The first burr was a "corn
                    cracker" with the stones hauled in from near 
                        Hagerstown
                    .21 Around 1835 the mill was expanded to a four-story building and
                    furnished with two sets of stones, one for corn and one for wheat.22 The mill
                    also powered a 
                  
                     19 U.S., Treasury Department, Statement of Arts and
                                Manufactures 1810, 163; U.S., Census Office, Aggregate Value and
                                Produce, 331; US., Census Office, Abstract of Statistics of
                                Manufactures, seventh census, 51; U.S., Census Office, Manufactures of the U.S. in
                            1860, 119; U.S., Census Office, Statistics of Wealth and Industry, ninth
                            census, 656; U.S., Census Office, Report of the Manufacturers of the 
                                    United States
                                 at the tenth census (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1881), 225.
                  
                     20 U.S., Census Office, Report of Manufactures, tenth
                                census, 225.
                  
                     21 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 203.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 35-37.
               
                    
                    
                  WYSOR & KLINE (OR GILBERT MILL)
                  Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society
                saw that cut most of the lumber for the early construction of 
                        Muncie
                    . In 1840 Gilbert leased the mill to James Frazell for a period of five years, but the
                    deal fell through at the end of three years. Frazell traded the unexpired portion of the lease to
                    Henry Wysor. Wysor operated the mill until about 1845 when he, James Russey, and John Jack purchased
                    the mill and began operations under the name of Russey, Jack and Co. In 1850 Russey died, and the
                    firm continued to operate as Wysor & Jack. During the autumn of 1854 they constructed a new
                    mill on the west side of Walnut Street at the present location of the Star Bank, on the corner of
                    what is now Wysor and Walnut 121. The mill was completed with four sets of stones and operated until
                    1856, when a new mill was erected. The new mill included five discharge wheels with a combined
                    seventy-five horsepower. It was fifty by sixty feet, five stories high, with four floors, including
                    the basement. Steam power was added in 1858. Jack died in 1859, and the business was continued as
                    Kline & Wysor. In 1868 they removed two wheels and installed two 
                        Dayton
                     turbines to bring production up to one hundred barrels of flour a day.23
            
            In 1875 Wallace Hibbitts purchased Jack's estate, but the firm continued as Wysor, Kline and Co. In
                    the 1880s the mill employed an average of six men and produced two brands of flour, "
                        Muncie
                     Mills" and "Harvest Queen." The mill was serviced by the
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 204.
               
                    
                    
                        Muncie
                    , & 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad, and today the only artifactual evidence remaining is a short section of track
                    visible at the intersection of Walnut and Wysor.
            In 1853 a mill was constructed by a Mr. Wilcox on the east side of Walnut at the
                            
                  Columbus, Cincinnati
                & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad tracks [3]. The building was thirty by forty feet, three stories high, and had
                    two sets of stones. In 1876 it had a 
                        Muncie
                    -built twelve-by-twenty-four steam engine as additional power. The first brands of flour
                    were "Family" and "Superfine." They later became "The
                    Straight Grade Family Flour" and "The New Process Flour." The mill had
                    six employees and a capacity of seventy-five barrels a day.24
            
            
                    
                  
                            Delaware
                         Township
                
            
               
                        Delaware
                     Township had at least two mills that were founded around 1834. 
                        Granville
                     Hastings came to Clifton to set up a general store and build a grist mill [4]. He
                    brought with him a large supply of flour with which he paid men to dig a mill race. The going rate
                    was one barrel of flour for a month's work. Hastings completed the sawmill but died before the flour
                    mill was finished. The mill site passed through the hands of Joseph Goodlove and John Shafer before
                    it was purchased by Benjamin Zehner in 1864. Zehner improved the mill with a three-story frame
                    building, a basement with three sets of burrs, and two turbine wheels—a
                    "Smally" and a "
                        Springfield
                    ." The sawmill, grist mill, and some woolen production remained in business
                    until late in the nineteenth century. An 1860 census recorder wrote in his notes that the
                    "woolen goods worn by the Zehner women made them the envy of all their
                        neighbors."25 The raceway and some building foundations are still
                    visible, with some foundation left on each side of the race, indicating an open basement with the
                    tail race exiting the west side of the building.26
            
            The other mill in 
                        Delaware
                     Township was constructed by John Black, who came from 
                  Clark County, Ohio
               , in 1834
                    and settled on land purchased from William Boyles [5]. Built in 1838, the mill
                    initially had two sets of burrs, one for corn and one for wheat. It was later upgraded to three sets
                    and operated by a Leffell turbine wheel, with steam subsequently added as a source of backup
                        power.27 On the Mis-sissinewa the raceway and stone dam are still intact
                    only a few yards west of Highway 67. The dam might have been added to or changed over the years, but
                    the raceway is straight as an arrow and unmistakably hand dug. The mill foundation appears disturbed
                    and has had a large garage built over it. The brick house built by Black in 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 203-204.
                  
                     25 U.S., Census Office, Statistics of Wealth and
                                Industry, ninth census, 656.
                  
                     26 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 241-42.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 240-41.
               
                    
                    
                  BLACK'S MILL ON THE MISSISSINEWA
                  
                  Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society
                1854 is no longer standing, and most of the area lies in the river's floodplain.
            
                    Harrison Township
                
            Harrison Township had few mills, as most milling was done in 
                        Muncie
                     or Anderson. Sometime in the early nineteenth century, Charles Stout had a small
                    hand-operated mill that his neighbors could use without payment [6]. It would
                    process about one bushel a day and was described as "very crude." Later, Samuel
                    McCune used horses to operate a mill in the same area, and it was described as "the best
                    machinery that could be obtained."28 In 1842 Joshua How-ell built a
                    small mill on Killbuck Creek about one and one-half miles south of the town of Bethel. It operated
                    for a few years and was later abandoned. No remains have been located [7].29
            
            
                    Liberty Township
                
            Most mills within Liberty Township were at Smithfield. William Miller, William Engle, and Henry Dill
                    were mentioned as having mills [8]. Dill was listed in the 1850 census as
                    having $6,400 of annual production, but his mill's location was not indicated.
                    Smithfield, which might have some artifactual remains, was not surveyed. There 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 251.
                  
                            29
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     is also a mill listed as having belonged to Moses Bries in 1839
                    and later sold to John Fullhart. It was located approximately one and one-half miles east of
                    Smithfield [9].30
            
            
                    
                  
                            Monroe
                         Township
                
            
               
                        Monroe
                     Township's only listed mill was on Buck Creek east of Oakville. It may have been there
                    as early as October 24, 1831 [10].31 Yorktown was the
                    location of several mills, although some were in the same location with different ownership. The
                    first mentioned is that of William Hardwick, who in 1832 "added a burr for grinding corn
                    near the Yingling Woolen Mill"[11].32
            
            A mill operated by the "Honorable Oliver H. Smith through 1838 and 1839 is also mentioned.
                    Thereafter several other mills are noted, but little detail is available about their operation.
                    Mills were owned by Jesse Williamson, the Bee Line Railroad, and a Jones. One is said to have been
                    destroyed by a gas explosion in 1880 and later rebuilt, but its ownership is unclear. The mill,
                    which did custom milling, was said to have three stories and a basement with two Lef-fell wheels.33 A survey of the area indicates that Buck Creek now follows what was the mill
                    race; the White River has changed course, or has been changed, and the area
                    where the mills had been has been filled and graded.
            
                    Perry Township
                
            Perry Township has been credited with two mills. One was built in 1838 by Ephraim Gary on 
                        Prairie
                     Creek [12]. The second was built by R. Jenkins and later sold to
                    John Kyger, who added a run of burrs for wheat. It was abandoned after the Civil War and its
                    location is unknown.34
            
            
                    
                  
                            Salem
                         Township
                
            There is mention of a flouring mill erected on the White River near Daleville by
                    James Turner in 1864, but no other information is given about either the business or its
                        duration.35
            
            
                    Union Township
                
            The first mill in Union Township was built by Francis Harris in 1831 [13].
                    Described as "rude," it was initially used to mill corn. 
                  
                     30 Mills Collection, unprocessed visual collection, 
                                Delaware County
                             Materials (Indiana State Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                            31
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     32 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 269.
                  
                            33
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     34 Mills Collection.
                  
                     35 Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , 285.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP OF DELAWARE COUNTY WITH
                                LOCATIONS OF GRIST MILLS.
                  
                In time a second set of boulders was taken from the river and dressed for wheat. The mill
                    was later sold to Charles Carter and a Mr. Johnson, and in 1847 it was the Carter Brother's Mill. A
                    frame merchant mill was built, which burned about 1850. The Carter brothers rebuilt a mill on the
                    same site, and in 1860 Charles Carter dug a new race. Shortly after the close of the Civil War, the
                    Carter brothers erected a mill in Eaton. It was a frame building, forty-five by fifty, four stories
                    high with two sets of stones and a capacity of ten bushels an hour; the race had a fall often feet
                    and operated two turbine wheels.36
                    
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 290.
               
                     The site of the Carter Mill has been bulldozed. The Carter
                    house and a little of the dam are left, but there are no other remains.
            The other mill of prominence in Union Township was founded by David Studebaker in 1845 [14]. Initially it was a saw and linseed oil mill. The mill was sold in 1852 to
                    William Mitchell, who added a carding mill. In 1863 it was sold to Michael Hyland, who made
                    improvements by adding a two-story, forty-five by twenty seven flouring mill.37
            
            The remains of the Studebaker Mill are significant because it may have run until well into the
                    twentieth century. The remains clearly show a Model A Ford differential that may have replaced the
                    traditional wooden gears, or even been used as a gasoline engine during times of low water. Much of
                    the operating mechanism, if still present, remains buried under sediment.
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                         Township
                
            The first mill in 
                        Washington
                     Township was a home mill built by Jacob Powers in 1835 or 1836 on 
                        Pike
                     Creek. Remains of a dam on 
                        Pike
                     Creek indicate it may have existed just south of the current Eaton Wheeling 
                        Pike
                     [15]. The business was abandoned before 1850. In 1836 a saw mill
                    and flouring mill was built by Uriah Powers and Joseph Wilson, Jr., near Elizabethtown. The first
                    run of stones were native river boulders that were "said to make good flour" [16]. After the mill was subsequently sold to Powers, Polsley, and Rockenfield,
                    improvements were made to include two burrs. People of that time described it as a "first
                    class custom mill."38 It was later sold to Dunn and Sons. The structure
                    existed until well into the twentieth century.
            Another mill in 
                        Washington
                     Township was built by Eli Lansing in 1836. Its location is unknown, but it was said to
                    have "had one burr, and ground flour, corn and buckwheat all on the same
                        stone."39
            
            This listing of mills is by no means complete. Many small mills existed as home businesses and others
                    existed without mention as a business. The sources were often confused about the names of people who
                    owned them. Although some were known by one name, such as Carter's or Black's, others, such as the
                    mills at Yorktown, changed names many times, and each source may call it something different.
            The grist mills of 
                        Delaware County
                     offer us many insights into early settlement and later growth. Illustrated in the
                    county mills are the establishment of early communities around water resources, the growth of some
                    of those communities and the death of others as water power was replaced with more sophisticated
                    mechanization.
            The rise and fall of grist mills provides an overview of growth and development for a specific area
                    of the country. In 
                        Delaware County
                    
                    
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 290-91.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 296.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 296-97.
               
                    
                    
                  STUDEBAKER MILL REMAINS WITH ADDED MODEL A FORD DIFFERENTIAL
                  
                  Photo taken by the author
               
                     small rural communities grew up around grist mills with
                    adequate capacity to support populations. The combination of restricted transportation and power
                    sources led to a proliferation of smaller mills. This pattern changed as rail access developed. The
                    mills that survived diversified and produced other products. As flour became commercially available
                    on a broader basis, more individuals could purchase it without ever being directly involved in the
                    production or processing of wheat. Access to other energy forms in the early twentieth century
                    caused the water mills to become obsolete rapidly and disappear.
            In a larger sense grist mills may be used to understand change that is still taking place. Mills
                    represent locally owned businesses that are involved in competition with regional and national
                    distribution systems. As transportation changed after 1850 the growth and survival of those mills
                    that had access to rail can be seen. These mills assumed a broader commercial orientation and
                    adopted dominant forms of power and production. The speed with which growth and obsolescence takes
                    place is related to the increase of the scope of the country's transportation system. From the
                    vantage point in 
                        Delaware county
                     one might conclude that roads and rails signaled the beginning of the end of rural life
                    in America. These trends continue today as larger regional and national businesses encroach upon
                    local markets, which in turn cause the closure of locally owned businesses. Transportation has made
                    mass production possible but often at local cost.
            The history of milling also shows us something about the speed with which change took place. Milling
                    was almost a static technology from the early Greeks to 1850. From 1850 to the present we have seen
                    increasingly rapid change. It might be interesting to note that although this change can be viewed
                    as a product of the times, in another sense changes in milling technology and location may have been
                    the principal facilitator of modern civilization. Western civilization depends on flour and
                    associated products as a food staple. Therefore, expansion and growth of twentieth century
                    population centers may well have been fueled by the availability of flour from a distance.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               This Wilderness of War: The Civil War Letters of George W. Squier, Hoosier
                    Volunteer. Edited by Julie A. Doyle, John David Smith, and Richard M. McMurry. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1998. Pp. xxx, 130. Illustrations, notes, maps, selected bibliography, index.
                    $30.00.)
            In the fall of 1861 a thirty-year-old merchant from 
                        Allen County
                    , Indiana, enlisted in the Union Army and began sending a remarkable series of letters
                    home to his wife. George W. Squier joined hundreds of other northeast Indiana recruits in the 44th
                    Indiana Volunteer Infantry and began a four-year odyssey through 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               ,
                    and 
                        Georgia
                    . In the process they participated in some of the Civil War's bloodiest battles. The
                    44th Indiana, nicknamed the "Iron 44th" after a resolute stand against the
                    Confederates on the first day of the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    , saw action at the siege of Fort Donel-son and the battles of Stone's River and
                    Chickamauga. Squier served with the regiment in nearly all of these battles and was mustered out in
                    September 1865 with the rank of captain.
            The University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press has focused attention on the service of the 44th by publishing dozens of Squier's
                    letters. A perceptive and talented writer, Squier kept his wife, Ellen, informed of his experiences
                    in battle, in camp, and on the march. In addition, the young Hoosier willingly shared his opinions
                    on a variety of topics, including slavery, superior officers, the vices of his comrades, and the
                    prosecution of the war. Squier's final letters, written in the summer of 1865, offer an interesting
                    look at one Union soldier's uncertainty about the future of the freed slaves, even after he had
                    suffered so long to crush slavery and save the Union.
            His candid and detailed descriptions of the bloodletting at 
                        Shiloh
                     and Stone's River are particularly fascinating. After the fighting ceased, having
                    walked over the latter battlefield, Squier described the suffering of wounded men begging for
                    blankets to keep from freezing to death, including thirty "poor wretches" who had
                    dragged themselves to a fire and lay "as close as they could be packed (p. 43). He noted
                    that the pockets of dead Confederates had been searched for valuables, a practice Squier himself
                    participated in as he "liberated an ink stand and a pair of gloves from an enemy corpse.
            The only disappointment in This Wilderness of War is a minor one. Although Squier
                    participated in some of the most important campaigns in the war's western theater, he missed the
                    fight at Fort Donelson due to illness, and his regiment was not actively involved in any major
                    campaigns after the Battle of Chickamauga. In late 1863, the 44th was relegated to garrison duty in 
                        Chattanooga
                     and languished there for the remainder of the war. One can only imagine the fine
                    letters Squier might have penned if the 44th had taken an 
                    active role in the 
                        Chattanooga
                     or 
                        Atlanta
                     campaigns or Sherman's "March to the Sea." Despite this longing for
                    more, we should be grateful that Squier saw as much of the war as he did, and that his letters
                    survived.
            The editors have provided numerous detailed notes to aid the reader, including background material on
                    Squier's personal life and an excellent introductory history of the 44th Indiana. The University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press can be proud of adding another fine work to its "Voices of the Civil
                    War" series.
            JEFFREY L. PATRICK is employed by the National Park
                    Service at Wilson's Creek National Battlefield, Republic, 
                        Missouri
                    .
         
         
            
               New Englanders on the 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier: The Migration and Settlement of Worthington, 
                            Ohio
                        . By Virginia E. McCormick and Robert W. McCormick. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1998. Pp. xi, 356. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes,
                    selected bibliography, index. $39.00.)
            Town and community studies continue to make important contributions to understanding the settlement
                    of the Midwest. Worthington, 
                        Ohio
                    , settled in 1803 predominantly by Episcopalian families from Granby, 
                        Connecticut
                    , makes an ideal case study in this genre. The Granby settlers were organized as the
                    Scioto Company in 1802 under the leadership of James Kilbourn, an ambitious would-be entrepreneur
                    and Episcopal lay preacher. After the company bought 16,000 acres of land along the Olentangy River
                    in central 
                        Ohio
                    , all forty shareholders and their families moved to Worthington by 1803.
            Virginia E. McCormick and Robert W. McCormick have written a lively, detailed, and appropriately
                    documented account of Worthington from these 
                        Connecticut
                     origins to the mid-1830s. At its best, this local history makes a valuable contribution
                    to the panorama of early 
                        Ohio
                     and midwestern history. Nevertheless, its celebratory framework limits the
                    possibilities of exploring some significant historical issues in greater depth. The McCormicks
                    sought to explain why an apparently "old New 
                        England
                     village" now lies surrounded by the suburbs of greater 
                        Columbus
                    , but they did not question the common lore about the town. They accept at face value,
                    for example, the assumption that the superficial New 
                        England
                     appearance of present-day Worthington (named in honor of a prominent 
                        Virginia
                     land speculator, by the way) is evidence that the original proprietors intended to
                    transplant New 
                        England
                     culture to the 
                        Ohio
                     frontier. That misleading premise colors the whole work.
            The main problem is that Kilbourn and the 
                        Connecticut
                     Scioto Company investors were not stereotypical Yankees. They were Episcopalians and
                    thus outsiders in a state dominated by a Congregational standing order. It is doubtful that the
                    Worthington settlers  wished to recreate the very New 
                        England
                     culture that had limited their social, political, and economic ambitions. Rather, they
                    escaped to the West seeking fresh opportunities free from entrenched Yankee cultural values and
                    economic constraints. They may have wanted to establish an exclusively Episcopalian town, but even
                    this modest ambition was undermined by the realities of 
                        Ohio
                     settlement.
            The Worthington pioneers behaved no differently than other 
                        Ohio
                     settlers. During their first three decades, they established farms, stores and other
                    economic institutions, a school, and several additional voluntary societies, including an Episcopal
                    congregation. Ironically, they quickly became a minority in their own town, as the Episcopalian
                    founders could neither prevent outsiders from buying land in the vicinity nor keep landless men from
                    residing in Worthington itself. In this supposedly "typical New 
                        England
                     town," Presbyterians and Methodists built permanent houses of worship before
                    the Episcopalian founders. In short, the McCormicks show nicely that Worthington was not so
                    different from most other 
                        Ohio
                     towns, where competing groups created diverse, interesting, and dynamic communities.
            Worthington remained a village of fewer than 600 residents well into the twentieth century,
                    perpetually overshadowed by nearby 
                        Columbus
                    . After World War II, Worthington mushroomed to 15,000 as the metropolitan suburbs grew
                    outward to meet and eventually surround the town. The nineteenth-century quaintness of the village
                    center may have more to do with its century of stagnation than to a lasting New 
                        England
                     influence, even the influence of Yankee dissenters. Indeed, it is not clear that
                    Worthington was ever, or ever intended to be, "the New 
                        England
                     model of community" the McCormicks imagined. New Englanders on
                        the 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier provides a needed basic history of early Worthington and useful
                    descriptions of pioneer life, but it falls short in exploring the dynamics that might have helped
                    explain the underlying social and economic tensions among the dissenting Yankee founders, later
                    immigrants, and the outside world.
            EMIL POCOCK teaches a course on the expansion of New 
                        England
                     at Eastern 
                        Connecticut
                     State University and studies the transplantation of society and culture to the
                    Midwestern frontier.
         
         
            
               A Wampum Denied: Procter's War of 1812. By Sandy Antal. (
                  Ottawa, Canada
               : Carleton
                    University Press, 1998. Pp. xv, 450. Maps, illustrations, notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $27.95.)
            Major-General Henry Procter, who commanded British forces on the Detroit River
                    during the War of 1812, has been much criticized. After an American army under William Henry
                    Harrison defeated him at Moraviantown (
                        Ontario
                    ) in 1813, a court martial reprimanded  Procter for
                    incompetence. Historians have generally endorsed that opinion, but in Sandy Antal the general has
                    found a strenuous defender.
            This is more than a study of Procter. It is the first comprehensive survey of the war on the 
                        Detroit
                     from the British perspective, and it brims with perceptive and long overdue insights.
                    Historians have seldom portrayed the difficulties the British encountered working with American
                    Indian allies so effectively. Moreover Antal is excellent on the logistics, the varying strategies
                    and war aims, and the difficulties unsympathetic superiors imposed upon Procter. He rightly emerges
                    as a sound strategist, who strove to maintain a military offensive in extremely difficult
                    circumstances, and as a generally humane man, greatly concerned, for example, by the predicament of
                    his Indian supporters.
            However, Antal's Procter is a rather one-dimensional figure. In reality he was more complex, a
                    compound of strengths and weaknesses. It is the author's refusal to come to grips with the latter,
                    and to explore their influence upon events, that constitutes the flaw in his book. Antal does not
                    fully address the formidable indictment against Procter: he repeatedly failed to protect prisoners
                    from the Indians; his relations with his regiment grew poor, partly because he unloaded the blame
                    for the military disasters of 1813 onto officers and men in his public dispatches; and he was an
                    indifferent communicator. Both senior officers and Indian allies such as Tecumseh had difficulty
                    tracking his changing intentions. Since effective command involves fostering teamwork and morale,
                    Procter's army had socially disintegrated even before its final defeat.
            In Antal's eagerness to exculpate Procter, the author occasionally misleads. In September and October
                    1813 Procter damaged the confidence of the Indians, first by dismantling Fort Amherstburg without
                    consultations, and second by dishonoring a pledge to fortify the forks of the River Thames (
                        Ontario
                    ). Antal clouds this picture by uncritically reproducing Procter's version of events,
                    omitting other evidence, and dispensing blame to others, including Tecumseh and the British Indian
                    agent Matthew Elliott, who were wrestling with the consequences of the general's actions. Similarly,
                    Antal's attempt (partly founded on Procter's dispatch of October 23,1813) to minimize the general's
                    absences from the main body of his troops on the last retreat considerably understates a problem
                    well attested elsewhere. Procter's associates are frequently treated less than justly. There is no
                    recognition of Elliott's efforts to recruit the Indians who won the "British"
                    victories in the West, and several of the author's attempts to diminish Tecumseh, including the
                    statement that he abandoned the British alliance in the late summer of 1812, are either erroneous or
                    unfair.
            In conclusion, this is a good book, which with a more balanced view of Procter could easily have been
                    a great one. It is well written, expertly crafted, and competently researched. Antal's willingness
                    to  confront the dogmas of conventional history is admirable.
                    The volume is essential reading for students of the War of 1812, Harrison, Tecum-seh, and
                    British-Indian operations in the Old Northwest.
            JOHN SUGDEN, Arnside, Cumbria, 
                        England
                    , is the author of Tecumseh's Last Stand (1985) and Tecumseh, A Life (1998) and is currently working on Shawnee Indian history between the
                    American Revolution and the War of 1812.
         
         
            
               The Black Civil War Soldiers of 
                            Illinois
                        : The Story of the Twenty-ninth U.S. Colored Infantry. By Edward A. Miller, Jr. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press, 1998. Pp. xi, 267. Map, illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            The inspiration for this book came, the author tells us, from the request of archivists at the Fort
                    Ward Museum & Historic Site, 
                  Alexandria,
                            Virginia
               , for information about
                    "two black regiments thought to have served in 
                        Alexandria
                     during the war" (p. x). The 29th USCT (
                        United States
                     Colored Troops) from 
                        Illinois
                     was one of the regiments, the other being Indiana's 28th USCT. Although there is no
                    comparable study of the 28th, with this work Edward A. Miller, Jr., has amply responded to the need
                    for a history of the 29th. Readers will appreciate the thoroughness with which he has accomplished
                    the "tedious task of researching "the thousands of individual files that hold the
                    story of a single regiment" (p. XI. The title is somewhat misleading, however, because the
                    book does not encompass those black soldiers from 
                        Illinois
                     who served in U.S. infantry regiments or artillery or cavalry units.
            Successive chapters deal with the recruiting of men from 
                        Illinois
                     and elsewhere and the regiment's formal organization at 
                        Quincy
                    , April 24, 1864, under Lieutenant Colonel John Armstrong Bross; its record in the
                    Second Brigade of the black Fourth Division of the Ninth Corps, particularly at the Battle of the
                    Crater, Petersburg, 
                        Virginia
                    , July 30, 1864; and the health-shattering hardships of postwar duty along the Mexican
                    border of 
                        Texas
                     with Major General Godfrey Weitzel's Twenty-fifth Corps. There, in the summer and fall
                    of 1865 with the 28th USCT, the 29th formed part of Third Brigade, Second Division under Brigadier
                    General Charles S. Russell, who had been the first colonel of the 28th. The final chapter gives
                    interesting details about the postwar careers of a number of soldiers. Indeed, an important feature
                    of this book is the information of potential genealogical value that Miller provides through his
                    research in the military and pension records of individual officers and men. One misses, however, in
                    the pages dealing with recruitment, any reference to the support that black churches, particularly
                    the African Methodist Episcopal Church, gave to the war effort.
            The numerous illustrations include photographs of Colonel Bross, General Weitzel, and some of the
                    privates of the 29th. The  few noteworthy lapses include the
                    misspelling of Thomas Wentworth Higginson's name and L'Ouverture Hospital as
                    "L'Ouerture." Miller confuses Major General David B. Birney with his brother
                    Brigadier General William Birney. A map of the battlefield at Petersburg described in the cutline as
                    "drawn by a participant, showing Ledlie's division and lines at the crater" and
                    bearing an original title, "Position of the 1st Brig. 1st Div. 9th Corps. Before Petersburg
                    Va.," in fact shows the deployment of the First Brigade, First Division in early 1865, long
                    after Ledlie had been cashiered for misconduct at the Battle of the Crater (p. 144).
            Without exaggerating their contribution on the field of battle, Miller has written an informed and
                    respectful tribute to the men of the 29th USCT, concluding that "they did their duty. This
                    is the best compliment one can pay to a soldier" (p. xi).
            GEORGE P. CLARK, professor emeritus of English, 
                        Hanover
                     College, edited Into the Old Northwest: Journeys with Charles H. Titus,
                        1841-1846 (1994). With Shirley E. Clark, he contributed "Heroes Carved in Ebony:
                    Indiana's Black Civil War Regiment" to Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History (Summer 1995).
         
         
            
               As If It Were Glory: Robert Beecham's Civil War from the Iron Brigade to the Black
                        Regiments. Edited by Michael E. Stevens. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Madison
                     House Publishers, Inc., 1998. Pp. xx, 236. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $28.95.)
            Memoirs of the Civil War are a well-known genre. Their value inevitably depends on the significance
                    of the writers' experiences, the sophistication of the writers' insights, and their literary talent.
                    On all three counts, Beecham's account is absolutely first rate.
            Beecham's war is highly dramatic, beginning with his enlistment as a private in the distinguished
                    Second 
                        Wisconsin
                     Volunteers of the Iron Brigade. Although absent from the field on several occasions
                    because of illness, he participated in Burnside's Mud March and the battles of Chancellorsville and 
                        Gettysburg
                    . He was captured in the latter battle and imprisoned in the Confederate prison camp at
                    Belle Isle. Once exchanged, he volunteered to become an officer in a black regiment, and became a
                    first lieutenant in the 23rd U.S. Colored Troops, serving despite the Confederacy's threat to
                    execute captured officers of black regiments. Having trained his soldiers, he led them into the
                    bloody fiasco at the Crater, where he was wounded and again captured. Imprisoned in
                            
                  Columbia, South
                            Carolina
               , he escaped but later surrendered in order to take
                    advantage of an expected prisoner exchange. Resigning after 
                        Appomattox
                    , he returned to his wife. The family lived in 
                  Wisconsin, Minnesota, Nebraska
               , and the state of 
                        Washington
                    . He was a lawyer, insurance agent, and public employee and was always civically
                    involved.
            This colorful career serves as the outline of Beecham's story. To it he brings an unusual political
                    and social sophistication, a willingness  to speak candidly, and
                    a writer's Pft. Thus he flatly rejects the Lost Cause myth: that the Confederacy was noble, the war
                    romantic, and that slavery was not the underlying cause of the war. Believing that the war was about
                    freedom, Beecham was contemptuous of the southern cause for which "Davis planned, Lee
                    fought and Jackson prayed (p. xiv). He rejected the national glorification of Lee, "a man
                    who deserted the nation that educated him in the art wherein he was gfted, and turned the strength
                    of his genius against the sword of God and the might of his truth (p. xiv). Beecham believed
                    wholeheartedly in "the universal brotherhood of the human race" and was an admirer
                    of the black soldier who "came forward cheerfully and volunteered his strength, brawn, and
                    his heart's blood to save the honor of the flag that to his race had been a symbol of every
                    dishonor" (p. xvi). He regarded the black soldiers of his regiment as "the bravest
                    and best soldiers that ever lived" (p. 168).
            ALAN T. NOLAN is the author of The Iron
                        Brigade (1961), and Lee Considered (1991) and coeditor of Giants in their Tall Black Hats (1998). He is currently at work on a book about the Lost
                    Cause myth.
         
         
            
               River 
                            Jordan
                        : African American Urban Life in the Ohio Valley. By Joe
                    William Trotter, Jr. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. xvi, 200. Maps, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $29.00; paperbound, $17.00.)
            In River 
                            Jordan
                        
               , the eighth in an ongoing series of books published by the University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                     that is a legacy of the early 1990s project, Always a River: The Ohio
                    River and the American Experience, Joe William Trotter, Jr., summarizes most of the
                    existing scholarship on four African American cities: 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville
               , and 
                        Evansville
                    . He argues that "though class, gender, and cultural issues require much more
                    research, the existing scholarship [on African American urban history] provides the intellectual
                    foundation for a new African American urban synthesis. The Ohio valley is an
                    excellent place to start because it holds great symbolic significance in African American
                    history" (p. xiii). The 
                        Ohio
                     divided slave and free labor and later the Jim Crow South from the North. It was a
                    "river 
                        Jordan
                    " promising passage to a better life.
            This work comprises three subdivisions of about fifty pages each—the expansion of
                    commercial and early industrial capitalism (1790-1860); emancipation, race, and industrialization
                    (1861—1914); and the industrial age (1914—1945). Trotter covers late
                    twentieth-century experiences in just ten pages. His previous research on 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and the relatively large amount of scholarship on black 
                        Cincinnati
                     help explain why he treats those two cities more extensively than the other two.
            Trotter underscores the role of black workers in the transformation of black urban life, documents
                    the emergence of the black middle  class, shows the development
                    of interracial alliances, and offers comparisons and contrasts in the social history of these varied
                    cities. Black communities diverged in their experiences with racial violence and discrimination and
                    "along temporal, spatial, color, class, and gender lines" (p. xiv). Trotter
                    concludes, though, that several unifying themes emerged. While blacks "faced racial
                    hostility from whites and class, color, and social cleavages among themselves," they also
                    built "bridges across such social chasms and creat[edl new
                    communities…." At "the forefront… was the transformation of
                    southern agricultural workers into a new urban working class" (p. xv).
            Trotter offers thoughtful comparisons of four black communities along a common waterway. Some gaps
                    appear, though. Trotter rarely mentions racial violence after 1861. Whites' roles in ameliorating
                    racism need more attention, as do differing population trends. For example, 
                        Evansville
                    's black population, like that of all lower 
                        Ohio
                     towns except 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , declined between 1900 and 1910 and remained flat until World War 11. The book's chief
                    limitation, however, is not the author's fault. There are relatively few historical studies of
                    African American life in the Ohio valley.
            This book should be a catalyst for further research on urban experiences since 1945, smaller cities
                    and towns, and the dynamics of race and community-building on either side of the river. Also
                    Trotter's "proletarianization" thesis needs more careful scrutiny. If 
                        Evansville
                     is a case in point, many African Americans had been employed in 
                        Kentucky
                     tobacco factories and distilleries before migrating after 1863. Trotter has offered a
                    solid beginning for that quest.
            DARREL E. BIGHAM is professor of history and director of
                    Historic Southern Indiana at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He is the author of We Ask Only a Fair Trial: A History of the Black
                        Community of 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana (1987) and is working on a history of 
                        Kentucky
                    's ex-slaves between 1861 and 1877.
         
         
            
               Labor and Urban Politics: Class Conflict and the Origins of Modern Liberalism in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1864-97. By Richard Schneirov. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1998. Pp. viii, 390. Notes, illustrations, index. Clothbound, $49.95;
                    paperbound, $21.95.)
            Richard Schneirov's Labor and Urban Politics: Class Conflict and the Origins of Modern
                        Liberalism in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1864-97 stands as another recent example of the skill and insight that labor
                    historians bring to considerations of the history of the 
                        United States
                    . As a title in the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press's Working Class in American History series, Schneirov's book offers a history of
                    labor and workers in Gilded Age 
                        Chicago
                     and presents an important argument about the development of modern liberalism in the 
                        United States
                    . In his own words, Schneirov contends that "class formation among late
                    nineteenth-century workers had a profound and transformative impact  on the urban political system" (p. 3). This impact, however,
                    amounts to more than the various manifestations of labor and socialist parties during this period.
                    Rather, Schneirov argues that by looking beyond the "formal outcomes of elections"
                    to the processes of coalition-building, electoral appeals, policies of local government, and the
                    relationship between labor leaders, politicians, and officeholders, one can see a more enduring
                    political effect of class formation within the Democratic and Republican parties, especially after
                    1886. In this process, organized labor, the labor question, and pro-labor policies attained
                    political credibility, electoral appeal, and legitimacy in respectable discourse. By the end of the
                    nineteenth century, a transformed liberalism became "America's ‘via
                    media,’ great compromise, or merger between market liberalism and socialism" (p.
                    10).
            The book's structure works well to demonstrate Schneirov's basic argument. It begins with a
                    reconstruction of the basic setting of 
                        Chicago
                     following the Civil War and captures nicely extant organization and consciousness of
                    the city's workers during this period. After detailing the development of party politics after the
                    war, Schneirov discusses the Great Upheaval of 1877 and the rise of the Knights of Labor in 
                        Chicago
                    , including an interesting account of the organization's segmented and ethnic
                    characteristics. Perhaps the most insightful section of the book deals with the dissolution of
                    machine politics and the Knights, under the pressure of calls for liberal and radical reform through
                    the Eight-hour-day movement and the Haymarket tragedy, and eventually, the rise of
                    "modern" trade unions. Schneirov uses the final chapters of the text to
                    substantiate his argument concerning the transformation of liberalism in the aftermath of Haymarket
                    and the development of three new elements of liberal reform, namely, a revised conception of social
                    ethics, a newfound acceptance of class legislation, and limited public support for the regulation of
                    the market by associations of capital and labor.
            In all, Schneirov's well-researched and well-written Labor and Urban Politics gives
                    cause for historians of American politics during the Gilded Age to reconsider the labor issue
                    outside of the threadbare question of "why no socialism?" As such, Schneirov's
                    work contributes to the new institutionalist turn in the literature that seeks to retain the
                    richness and conceptual insights of the "new history" without sacrificing careful
                    consideration of organizations and leaders that contributed so much to the historical possibilities
                    of the past. Instead of a golden past, or in Schneirov's words "a tragedy of lost
                    opportunities," Labor and Urban Politics focuses on what occurred in the
                    political arena and, more importantly, what endured.
            SAMUEL W. WHITE is assistant professor and labor education
                    specialist at the University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        Columbia
                    . His research interests include the history of labor and politics in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, and American grievance representation systems.
         
         
         
            
               The Sunday Game: At the Dawn of Professional Football. By Keith McClellan.
                    (Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    : University of Akron Press, 1998. Pp. 520. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $39.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            Sports historians have been good to professional baseball in the past three decades, turning out
                    numerous biographies of legendary players and accounts of great teams and their seasons. But aside
                    from the members of the Professional Football Researchers Association writing for other members, the
                    historians, lay and academic alike, have given scant attention to professional football, a newcomer
                    on the American sports scene, devoid of baseball's mystique. Now appearing, though, are several
                    useful books on the game, including a biography of Red Grange, two comprehensive encyclopedias, a
                    history of the origins and early development of the game, a study of professional teams in the
                        Ohio Valley in the 1920s, and the work reviewed here, Keith McClellan's The Sunday Game: At the Dawn of Professional Football.
            
            McClellan opens his study with four chapters on the state of independent football, the game played by
                    adults without collegiate affiliation, early in the twentieth century. He notes the blue collar
                    support for it, the gambling and use of ringers associated with it, and the class prejudice against
                    it. Using exhaustive research in newspapers, he then chronicles—game-by-game, score
                    by-score—the play of twenty independent teams in the upper Midwest from 1915 to 1917. He
                    sees 1915 as a benchmark because organizers of independent clubs, heretofore facing anarchic
                    conditions in recruiting players, who switched teams week-by-week, and in arranging solid schedules,
                    began to play interstate rivals regularly, to commit players to longer contracts, and to consider
                    creation of leagues governing conditions of competition. America's entry into World War I halted
                    progress, but the independents, McClellan asserts, laid the foundation for the National Football
                    League. He closes with an excellent analysis of the role professional football played in giving sons
                    of working class families opportunities to break down social barriers, a view of
                    "stars" in the game, and a summary of the substance of promotion and financing of
                    the game.
            McClellan sees a linear movement from the growing professionalism of 1915-1917 to the day that
                    proprietors of the independents met in 1920 to organize the American Professional Football
                    Association, which became the NFL in 1922. But the founding fathers still faced some of the same
                    problems—players jumping from one team to another and schedules in shambles. As one
                    historian has put it, professional football remained a "catch as-catch-can
                    operation" (Harold Claassen, The History of Professional Football,
                    Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1963, p. 32). Darkness yet awaited the dawn.
            Readers interested in specific teams will find The Sunday Game useful, because it offers encyclopedic
                    detail on the twenty independents.  The detail, however, becomes
                    cumbersome because of McClellan's organization of his material. In his chapter on the 
                        Dayton
                     Triangles, for instance, he uses a full page (p. 124) to describe a game between the
                    Triangles and 
                        Detroit
                     Heralds played in 1916. Then in the chapter on the Heralds, he spends nearly a full
                    page (p. 147) on the same game. Similar repetition occurs throughout the middle chapters. The mass
                    of detail on games and scores inevitably invites errors. On page 92, for example, the 
                        Columbus
                     Panhandles led the 
                        Toledo
                     Maroons 7-6 but won 23-0. In the appendix (pp. 415 and 4531, the Panhandles won 23-7.
                    Other such discrepancies appear elsewhere.
            Despite the doubtfulness of his principal argument and organizational problems, McClellan has made a
                    substantial contribution to the literature on professional football. No other work deals with the
                    game in the second decade of the twentieth century in such a comprehensive way, and no other work is
                    likely to supplant it.
            CARL M. BECKER is professor emeritus of history at Wright
                    State University, 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               .
         
         
            
               An Archaeology of the Soul: North American Indian Belief and Ritual. By Robert
                    L. Hall. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xiv, 222. Illustrations, notes, references, index. Clothbound,
                    $49.95; paperbound, $24.95).
            Robert Hall's fascinating and provocative book is the sort of work that indulges in speculation and
                    creatively crosses disciplinary boundaries. Although the book is written by an archaeologist with a
                    deep knowledge of native North American cultural history, nonspe-cialists can read it with great
                    interest, even if not equipped to fully grasp all the fine points. The title effectively expresses
                    Hall's late-career turn "away from conventional field archaeology toward a more humanistic,
                    noninvasive archaeology emphasizing Native American spirituality" (p. x). The fact that his
                    maternal ancestors include Mohicans, Menominees, and Ottawas grounds the book in a personal sense of
                    connection to his materials and enhances its expressive as well as its scholarly quality.
            To do "noninvasive archaeology" is to work with museum and documentary collections.
                    The archaeologist "reads" them as one would read texts: to elucidate the stories
                    that they can tell. One can do amazing things with what lies in museums, archives, and libraries, or
                    is embedded in native languages and vocabularies, without having to dig and destroy more sites, or
                    remove still more heirlooms from native communities. This is Hall's moral and methodological double
                    message: take seriously and analyze deeply what is already at hand.
            The content of the book is remarkably rich. Hall's starting point is the Calumet ceremony or the
                    rites surrounding the pipe and the long pipestem. He analyzes meanings through archaeological,
                    historical,  and linguistic studies and comparisons across North
                    America. In nineteen chapters, Hall shows how the ceremony is intertwined with mourning,
                    consolation, adoption, reincarnation, ideas surrounding spirit bundles, soul release, cosmogony, and
                    sacrifice, particularly the Skiri Pawnee Morning Star sacrifice, in which Hall also finds
                    relationships with Mesoamerican cosmology. He argues that cultural diffusion and integration of
                    motifs and artifacts into various communities across the continent are very old and pervasive
                    processes in native North America. In short, the spread of modern powwow dances or other
                    contemporary observances has analogues going back two or three thousand years.
            The work is handsomely presented and printed, with numerous linecuts and diagrams. Readers would
                    benefit if the illustrations and their titles were listed at the front. Given their importance, they
                    deserve as much. The book could have used some further editing to reduce repetition and enhance
                    clarity. But it is a creative and path-breaking contribution worthy of attention from all readers
                    interested in native North American history and culture.
            JENNIFER S. H. BROWN, professor of history at the
                    University of Winnipeg in 
                  Manitoba, Canada
               , is director of the Centre for Rupert's Land Studies.
                    Her latest book, coedited with Elizabeth Vibert, is Reading Beyond Words: Contexts for
                        Native History (1996).
         
         
            
               David Zeisberger: A Life among the Indians. By Earl P. Olmstead.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1997. Pp. xxiv, 441. Illustrations, maps, appendices, tables,
                    notes, selected bibliography, index. $39.00.)
            The life of the Moravian missionary David Zeisberger (1721-1808) is a subject rich in primary sources
                    and worthy of study. Zeisberger's writings are a major source of information for anyone interested
                    in Algonquian and Iroquoian peoples in the eighteenth century. As a missionary for sixty-three
                    years, Zeisberger became a noted linguist of the northern Unami 
                        Delaware
                     dialect. He also compiled an Onondaga dictionary and studied Mohawk. His letters,
                    diaries, and other manuscripts provide detailed accounts of life among the Indians of
                            
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Ontario
                    .
            In writing David Zeisberger: A Life among the Indians, Earl P. Olmstead has taken
                    on a daunting task, given the range of Zeisberger's writings and the longevity of his mission. This
                    task is complicated because, as Olmstead is aware, Zeisberger himself is not the whole story. The
                    Moravian missions were hardly a one man operation. Many other Moravian missionaries labored
                    alongside Zeisberger, and Moravian church authorities directed his efforts. Olmstead goes into much
                    detail about these individuals and their activities. As a result, this book sometimes reads like a
                    biography of Zeisberger and other times like a narrative of Moravian missions in general. The  reader is left with a sense of confused purpose, which some
                    introductory comments from the author might have alleviated.
            One would expect a heavy use of primary sources since so many are available for this topic.
                    Especially for the period after 1767, Olm-stead does make use of many Moravian letters and diaries.
                    He relies on English translations of Moravian records, once only available in German script. By
                    tracking down and commissioning English translations of sources, Olmstead has made many Moravian
                    records more accessible to researchers. Interested scholars would benefit from mining his footnotes.
                    Although he turns to numerous primary sources for the years after 1767, he bases a large portion of
                    his account of Zeisberger's earlier life on fairly old secondary materials. This gives an uneven
                    quality to his study. No doubt there are fewer sources for this early period, but given the
                    Moravians' penchant for record-keeping, it is likely that other primary sources could help fill in
                    the picture.
            Readers who like studying maps and trails will enjoy Olmstead's book. He has retraced the Moravians'
                    footsteps, using the missionaries' many travel diaries. As a result one gets a strong sense of place
                    as he connects present locales with previous Moravian sites.
            Zeisberger's life history offers plenty of excitement. Olmstead dwells primarily on the years just
                    before and during the American Revolution, which were especially tumultuous for the missionary and
                    the missions in general. He gives a blow-by-blow description of this period. The book only briefly
                    summarizes the last twenty-odd years of Zeisberger's life. For a narrative of this period Olmstead
                    expects the reader to turn to his earlier book, Blackcoats among the Delawares: David
                        Zeisberger on the 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier (1991).
            Olmstead attacks his subject with enthusiasm and works hard to uncover the paths and byways of the
                    Moravians. This is, however, an uneven biography. One hopes that someday someone will delve deeper,
                    for instance, into the childhood, youth, and young adulthood of David Zeisberger. Such a study might
                    shed more light on the missionary's crucial decisions during the upheavals in the 
                        Ohio
                     country.
            AMY C. SCHUTT is assistant professor of education and
                    teaches in the Native American Studies Program at Colgate University, 
                  Hamilton, New
                    York
               .
         
         
            
               Jefferson's Declaration of Independence: Origins, Philosophy and Theology. By
                    Allen Jayne. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. xiii, 245. Illustration, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
            In this monograph, Allen Jayne attempts to analyze Jefferson's intentions and sources in composing
                    the Declaration. In doing so, he concludes that the philosophical works of Henry St. John, Viscount
                    Bolingbroke, and of Henry Home, Lord Kames, were as decisive in shaping Jefferson's theological and
                    moral views as were Locke's writings in giving direction to Jefferson's politics.
            
            Jayne notes in his introductory comments that one of the primary goals of his monograph is to
                    demonstrate the crucial importance of Jefferson's theology in shaping the political theory of the
                    Declaration. But other than pointing out that Jefferson embraced deistic views and had read and been
                    influenced by Bolingbroke, facts already brought to our attention by Gilbert Chinard and Sydney
                    Ahlstrom, the author offers little that is either new or significant. Certainly there is no support
                    for Jayne's assertion that "there were few if any members of the Congress, other than
                    Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , who shared the deist religious views Jefferson expressed in the
                    [Declaration]" (p. 56). Nor does the author offer a convincing case that Jefferson's
                    religious convictions informed the whole of the Declaration.
            The author does no better when analyzing the moral and political philosophy underlying Jefferson's
                    treatment of rights. Jayne argues that the reason Jefferson, unlike Locke, excluded property from
                    his listing of inalienable rights was that, unlike life and liberty, property was indeed alienable
                    because it could be transferred to others. The author's analysis, however, confuses a right to
                    property with a right to specific property. While a specific instance of property over which one has
                    ownership can be sold, traded, transferred, or even destroyed, in sum "alienated,"
                    the "right to property" remains as "inalienable" as rights to
                    life and liberty. However, the author's confusion over the nature of inalienability of property
                    leads him to conclude that Jefferson must have had Lord Kames's discussion of property in Historical Law Tracts in mind when he substituted the term "pursuit of
                    happiness" for property in his trilogy of fundamental rights. There is, however, no
                    historical warrant to support this contention. A far more likely explanation for why Jefferson
                    invoked a right to pursue happiness is that he borrowed the phrase from the opening paragraph of
                    George Mason's 
                        Virginia
                     Declaration of Rights, a document with which he was familiar and a copy of which he
                    might well have had before him when composing the Declaration.
            Not only does Jayne not prove his larger thesis, but his essay is replete with smaller errors. For
                    example, in contrasting the Lock-ean interpretation of the Declaration with a classical republican
                    reading of the document, the author describes classical republicanism in terms perfectly consistent
                    with Lockean theory. The author, in characterizing classical republicanism as it is understood by J.
                    G. A. Pocock and others, totally omits its most significant attribute, a distrust of trade and
                    wealth unsecured by real property. The result is an understanding of classical republicanism that is
                    so broad as to include every Whig theorist, including Locke.
            Appended to Jayne's text is a reprint of the final version of the Declaration. Like much of the rest
                    of the book, this makes little sense. Why, in an essay devoted to Jefferson's philosophical
                    intentions reflected in the Declaration, are we not provided Jefferson's draft rather than the
                    document as amended by Congress?
            
            In sum, Jefferson's Declaration of Independence is a disappointing book. It
                    rehashes material more clearly and thoroughly presented elsewhere, contains controversial assertions
                    for which no evidence is adduced, and is salted with errors of fact and interpretation. Those who
                    wish to know about the philosophical underpinnings of the nation's most important political document
                    are better advised to go elsewhere.
            RONALD HAMOWY is a Fellow of Western 
                        Maryland
                     College in Westminster, 
                        Maryland
                    . He has written extensively on the Declaration of Independence and has recently
                    finished an annotated edition of the complete Cato's Letters.
            
         
         
            
               A Journey through the West: Thomas Rodney's 1803 Journal from 
                            Delaware
                         to the 
                            Mississippi
                         Territory. Edited by Dwight L. Smith and Ray Swick. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1997. Pp. xiii, 280. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $44.95.)
            When Thomas Rodney, 
                        Delaware
                     supreme court justice, was fifty-nine years old, Thomas Jefferson appointed him a 
                        Mississippi
                     territorial judge and a land commissioner for part of the territory. To assume these
                    responsibilities in Natchez, Rodney crossed the Appalachians and helped crew the custom-built Iris
                    down the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi rivers. His journey lasted from August 14 to
                    December 1, 1803, including seventy-one days on water. Although Rodney's checkered life included a
                    stint in debtors' prison, he was well-connected, intelligent, well-read, intrepid,
                    insightful—and prone to exaggeration. His travel journal reveals his passion for history,
                    geology, botany, zoology, river dynamics, archaeology, social questions, and morbidity. His journey
                    from 
                        Delaware
                     to Natchez was more than simple travel; it was a rite of passage, one that dispelled
                    burdens and opened new worlds.
            Boatmate conversations, fiddle and flute music, and his journal enlivened Rodney's spirits.
                    Reflecting prevailing thought, Rodney lamented that western soil "is fine but in the hands
                    of Indians…" (p. 158). Observing some assimilation of Indians, he also noted a
                    white woman and her Indian husband. Rodney delighted in the unfolding natural and social
                    environments and bubbled with expectation, awe, and mystery. Faulty guide books heightened the
                    mystery.
            Rodney recorded much: peaceful contacts with Indians, ubiquitous alcohol, "uncultured 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Germans (p. lo), lodging, food and food prices, tavern signs, "monstrous
                    vines" (p. 491, river towns, the Blennerhasset mansion, Presbyterians who experienced
                    "frenzy and shouting and falling down" like Methodists (p. 411, an "air
                    gun" designed to fire twelve balls simultaneously (p. 50), lingering British influence
                    north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , illnesses, backwoodsmen, high wages and leveling among Westerners, social tensions,
                    Indian mounds, a "hansome blackeyed" river "nimph" (p. 97), the
                    American  penchant for speed, numerous kindnesses among hustling
                    travelers and local denizens, a backwoodsman's family refusing to migrate to 
                        Illinois
                     and "the finest land he has ever seen" (p. 55), saline operations,
                    upwardly mobile immigrants, geologic and river formations, French and Spanish influences, Natchez
                    strumpets, and flora and fauna, but virtually no deer, bear, or insects.
            In fact, much is revealed by what is not in the journal: murders, scrapes with Indians, predators,
                    mean-spirited people, and other conflict. Attentive to detail and quick to spot troubles, Rodney
                    would have noted violence had it occurred. Although his mates took potshots at raccoons, ducks,
                    pigeons, and other wildlife, no shot was fired in anger. His journal is virtually conflict-free and
                    abounds with instances of kindness and trust among strangers, Indians coming aboard, and perfect
                    strangers meeting and getting along well via ad hoc activities.
            Technically, this work is virtually flawless. Dwight L. Smith and Ray Swick employ a sensible
                    editorial policy. Endnotes illuminate significant people and places, idioms, context, and
                    historiographical material. The editors, moreover, make modest claims and readily admit
                    uncertainties. Nine illustrations, four adequate maps, an index, and rich primary and secondary
                    sources (including material on epidemiology) grace the work. Although one could wish that Rodney had
                    recorded far fewer sandbars and river bends, superb editing helps this work succeed.
            JAMES DAVIS, professor of history and political science at 
                        Illinois
                     College, 
                        Jacksonville
                    , is the author of Frontier 
                        Illinois
                     (1999). He is currently researching the Civil War and memory.
         
         
            
               John Quincy Adams. By Lynn Hudson Parsons. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Madison
                     House Publishers, Inc., 1998. Pp. xviii, 284. Illustrations, suggested reading, index.
                    $29.95.)
            This volume is one of a series entitled American Profiles, edited by Norman K. Risjord, who explains
                    that he looks upon biography as "a pedagogical device," designed "to
                    sugarcoat the pill" of history (p. ix). Thus interpreted, biography is to provide
                    "a context for history," and the history here featured, according to Risjord, is
                    to center on the "debate whether American expansion meant that human slavery necessarily
                    went with it" (pp. ix, xv).
            It is questionable whether Lynn Hudson Parsons held so limited a view of the life of John Quincy
                    Adams. In fact, through the first six of eight chapters, until the discussion of Adams's
                    congressional career in the mid-1830s, the only passages that relate Adams's identification of the
                    slavery issue with American expansion are the accounts of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, when the author comments that Adams "was ambivalent, even
                    inconsistent" (p. 271, and the 
                        Missouri
                    
                     Compromise, when although he opposed slavery and looked upon
                    the debate as "the title-page to a great tragic volume," he "for the most
                    part… kept these thoughts to himself' (p. 161). Parsons identifies Adams's struggle in
                    opposition to the "gag" rule, which banned reading of antislavery petitions before
                    Congress, as a transition to "a new phase" in his career (p. 224).
            The volume provides an excellent chronological survey of Adams's public life, a balanced account that
                    covers the entire career in a mere 268 pages, and a brief epilogue on the major achievements of his
                    descendants. The author writes smoothly and organizes her material effectively. Such compactness,
                    however, leaves little space for interpretation. Three themes command the bulk of her attention:
                    Adams's strong nationalism, his eighteenth-century conceptions of political ethics, and his ultimate
                    identification as an antislavery proponent.
            Adams's heritage as the son of one of the country's founders gave him a patriotic nationalism, but he
                    adapted it into territorial expansionism, cultural and scientific advancement, commercial growth,
                    and governmental facilitation of such development. Parsons accepts the view that Adams recognized
                    the affinity of his programmatic goals to the policies supported by Henry Clay, rather than to the
                    increasingly regionalized conceptions of the other presidential candidates in 1824. She also notes
                    that Adams's political ineffectiveness sprang in large part from his beliefs that persons with
                    talent and experience had a responsibility to enter public service and that their capabilities
                    should draw public support without self promotion, even to the extent of tolerating disloyal
                    subordinates. Parsons seems, however, unable to explain the "change" she finds in
                    the vehemence of Adams's attacks upon slavery during his congressional career when it had not
                    earlier been apparent. She attributes it less to his opposition to slavery than to the restraints
                    upon free speech imposed by congressional spokesmen for the slavocracy. She does not recognize that
                    by the 1830s Adams had become convinced that his whole national program had succumbed to southern
                    efforts to preserve "the clanking chain of the Slave" through "boundless
                    bribery to the west…" (Edward H. Tate, Jr., "Ten Unpublished letters of
                    John Quincy Adams," 
                  
                            Huntington
                         Library Quarterly [April 1941], p. 383).
            The volume lacks documentation, a deficiency most relevant to the limited dicussion provided on
                    Adams's private life. Parsons's allusions to father John Adams's correspondence with his son add a
                    fresh dimension to the more commonly cited Adams record, but at the same time they minimize the
                    domineering role frequently attributed to mother Abigail. Parsons describes Adams as socially boring
                    and ill at ease, strange characteristics for so experienced a diplomat. Elsewhere his conversational
                    skills in small gatherings have been acclaimed. He seems to have led a somewhat boisterous life as a
                    young lawyer; his letters to his wife during periods of extended separation verge  on the erotic; and the Adamses were a popular young couple at the
                    Prussian and Russian courts, an experience that served him well in his diplomatic career. Scholars
                    who find such detail important must search in vain for explanations of such discrepancies.
                    Manifestly designed to attract the general reader, the volume will serve that audience well.
            MARY W. M. HARGREAVES, professor emerita of history at the
                    University of 
                  Kentucky, Lexington
               , was on the editorial staff of the 
                        Clay
                     Papers Project from 1952 to 1979 and serves as a member of the advisory board of the
                    Henry Clay Foundation in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               . She is the author of The
                        Presidency of John Quincy Adams (1985) and Dry Farming in the Northern Great
                        Plains, Readjustment Years, 1920-1990 (1993).
         
         
            
               The Petticoat Affair: Manners, Mutiny, and Sex in Andrew Jackson's White House.
                    By John F. Marszalek. (
                        New York
                    : Free Press, 1997. Pp. viii, 296. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            The main character in this story is the well-known Peggy O'Neale, the young daughter of a 
                        Washington
                     innkeeper in the early nineteenth century. Her true name was Margaret, which John F.
                    Marszalek uses throughout since he believes "Peggy" connoted moral disapproval by
                    many of her contemporaries. His book is a well researched and fascinating biography as well as an
                    important view of Jacksonian politics. Though undoubtedly not intended to relate to recent affairs
                    of officeholders, it may interest readers all the more because of the timing of its publication.
            O'Neale was well known to Andrew Jackson and his friend John Eaton when they both came to the capital
                    in the 1820s and took lodging at her father's popular inn. They were fascinated by the attractive
                    Margaret, who was married to John Timberlake, who died in 1828 while on naval duty abroad. According
                    to rumor Eaton carried on an affair with Margaret before he married her.
            Jackson soon became president and maintained his interest in the couple. In time, his friendliness
                    became a determination to protect Margaret from the kind of slander his own wife had recently
                    suffered, which, he believed, had driven her to an early grave. Increasingly, this feeling took on
                    political importance during Jackson's presidency.
            When the wives of cabinet members refused to have anything to do with Margaret, the furious president
                    hauled the secretaries to the White House for correction. If their wives did not socialize with
                    Margaret, he thundered, he would dismiss any or all of his cabinet members. He dismissed or received
                    resignations from all except for Secretary of State Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren. Furthermore, he also broke relations with Vice President John C. Calhoun, whom
                    Jackson suspected was largely responsible for this social injustice. This was a novel reason for
                    dismissing a cabinet.
            
            Thus the political significance of this development was the promotion of 
                        Van
                     Buren's prospects for presidential succession and the growth of anti-Calhoun
                    sentiments. The author is on credible ground in this respect but perhaps underemphasizes issues of
                    public policy, such as the tariff or national banking. He does show that Henry Clay did not attack
                    Jackson personally, but he might have given more attention to the politics of economic policy, as
                    well as to the personal impact of the Margaret O'Neale affair.
            Overall, this is an excellent book, which brings in some interesting views of O'Neale's long life in 
                        Washington
                    . Another valuable theme throughout is the analysis of women's
                    "proper" roles as illustrated by the treatment Margaret O'Neale received.
            MAURICE BAXTER, emeritus professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is a specialist in early nineteenth-century American history.
         
         
            
               Defiant Peacemaker: Nicholas Trist in the Mexican War. By Wallace Ohrt. (College
                    Station: 
                        Texas
                     A & M University Press, 1997. Pp. xi, 190. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Few in the annals of American diplomacy have accomplished as much and received so little credit in
                    their own lifetime as Nicholas Trist. A Democrat who married Thomas Jefferson's granddaughter, Trist
                    became chief clerk of the state department in the Polk administration. During the Mexican War, Polk
                    and Secretary of State James Buchanan sent him to join the American forces in Mexico with
                    instructions to negotiate a peace treaty. Polk, of course, distrusted General Winfield Scott, a
                    Whig, and expected the presence of the trustworthy Trist to diminish the ambitious general's
                    presidential prospects.
            Despite initial misunderstandings, Trist and Scott developed an effective working relationship. Polk
                    grew as suspicious of Trist as he was of Scott and, leaning toward the All Mexico movement, recalled
                    the diplomat just as he was on the verge of reaching an agreement with Mexican authorities. The
                    "defiant peacemaker" ignored the recall notice and concluded the Treaty of
                    Guadalupe Hidalgo. Displeased, Polk sent the treaty to the Senate for ratification but extracted his
                    revenge by refusing to pay Trist for the time he remained in Mexico after he received his recall.
            Financial problems dogged Trist for years. Dismissed from government service, he eventually became
                    paymaster for the 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Wilmington, and 
                        Baltimore
                     Railroad, a modest position that required constant travel over the often uncomfortable
                    and frequently dangerous rail system. His life improved in 1870, when 
                        Massachusetts
                     senator Charles Sumner took up his cause and won for Trist not only the back pay owed
                    him, but interest as well. Soon after he was awarded a comfortable sinecure as postmaster of
                            
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               , where he lived comfortably until his death in 1873.
            
            Wallace Ohrt relates Trist's story in a lively and engaging manner. The best and most original aspect
                    of this book involves the details of Trist's close and loving relationship with his wife, Virginia,
                    and their children, drawn from the Trist papers in the microfilm Southern Women and Their Families
                    series in the Southern Historical Collection at the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     at 
                        Chapel Hill
                    .
            Unfortunately, the book has more defects than virtues. It lacks focus. The title indicates that the
                    book is about Trist in the Mexican War, but more than half of the text is about Trist before his
                    appointment as chief clerk. When the author does get to the war with Mexico, the research is thin.
                    The book relies on previously published materials for evidence, and the author's treatment adds
                    little to those earlier works. One significant newer effort the author does not consider is Drew
                    McCoy's Last of the Fathers: James 
                            Madison
                         and the Republican Legacy (1989), which includes valuable insights into 
                        Madison
                    's influence on Trist's political views.
            There are a number of slipshod errors. Ohrt wrongly places Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     together at the Constitutional Convention, while Jefferson was minister to 
                        France
                     (p. 3). He incorrectly asserts that Scott "had taken part in negotiating the
                    Treaty of Ghent" (p. 110). Ohrt writes that 
                        Virginia
                     Trist's brother "disappeared into 
                        Tennessee
                     Territory" where he became an aide to the "territorial
                    governor" in the 1830s, when 
                        Tennessee
                     became a state in 1796. Finally he declares that the state department employed
                    "four or five hundred" clerks while the actual number for the diplomatic,
                    consular, and home bureaus combined amounted to fourteen plus a handful of temporary clerks from
                    time to time (pp. 60' 99).
            These limitations seriously weaken the usefulness of this volume. Readers who wish to know more about
                    Trist's role in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo would be better advised to read the already existing
                    literature.
            KENNETH R. STEVENS is associate professor of history at 
                        Texas
                     Christian University, Fort Worth. He is presently writing a diplomatic biography of
                    Daniel Webster.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               A Pictorial History of Indiana. By Dwight W. Hoover, with the assistance of Jane
                    Rodman. (1980; reprint, 
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1998. Pp. 304. Illustrations, maps. Clothbound,
                    $49.95; paperbound, $29.95.) A coffee table book, if there ever was one.
                    Hoover organizes Hoosier history topically and covers such areas as Native Americans, the pioneer
                    period, the Civil War, agriculture, the growth of towns and cities, business, leisure, sports, and
                    education. Readers not familiar with the history of the state will find these concise chapters
                    useful; those more familiar with the history will still find much to interest them in the topical
                    organization of the information. Even after reading the text, however, many people will find
                    themselves coming back to the book again and again for the photographs. Anyone interested in
                    transportation history will treasure photographs of the steamboat Governor Morton
                    on the White River in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a hot-air balloon delivering "air mail" to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1859, and a double-decker streetcar in 1895 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Readers looking for famous Hoosiers will find hundreds of examples, among them Madame
                    C. J. Walker posing in her automobile, a bevy of Studebakers posing in their Studebakers, and Hoagy
                    Carmichael at the piano surrounded by college friends (among them Herman B Wells). Photographs range
                    from the serious (an artillery battery organized at Indiana University during World War I) to the
                    amusing (a business-suited Governor Henry F. Shricker milking an unhappy-looking cow). The volume's
                    only defect is its lack of an index. Perhaps, given the topical arrangement of the chapters, a
                    textual index is not strictly necessary, but a photographic index would have been an invaluable
                    addition. Dawn Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Railroads in the Heartland: Steam and Traction in the Golden Age of Postcards. By
                    H. Roger Grant. (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 1997. Pp. x, 181. Illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.) H. Roger Grant, prolific author and editor of the magazine Railroad
                        History, once again takes readers on a visual excursion through the history of railroads in
                    America. The book begins with an essay on the distinctive features of railroads in the Midwest.
                    Subsequent sections present a large collection of postcard images, arranged by subject and captioned
                    by the author. Topics include the railroad landscape, depots, trains and people, and the electric
                    age. Indiana readers will be particularly interested in photographic postcards of Inland Steel
                    railyards in early twentieth-century northwest Indiana, and several illustrations of interurban
                    railroads in Indiana cities such as 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Kokomo
                    . Dawn Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Gardens of the Early Midwest, As Presented at Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Museum. Revised edition. By David G. Vanderstel, Jane M. Wheeler, and Joyce A.
                    Newby. Edited by Timothy Crumrin. ([Fishers, Ind.]: Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Press, 1998. Pp. [59]. Illustrations, suggested readings. Paperbound,
                    $6.50.) This attractively produced small volume should prove to be a popular gift for
                    those who love historical gardens. Chapters detail the history and contents of kitchen gardens,
                    flower gardens, and herb gardens in the nineteenth-century Midwest. Information on the dyeing
                    process from garden-grown herbs is also included. The final section of the book offers readers the
                    designs of five of Conner 
                        Prairie
                    's own gardens, and the editor also suggests additional readings on the history of
                    gardens in America. Dawn Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
