
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 64, Issue 1, pages 1-86. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:64+issue:1+year:1968&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Maurice Thompson's Primitive Baptist Heritage
            
                    Walter L. Fertig
                    ∗
                
            In one of the earliest directories of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , a most interesting and most unreliable volume, the People's
                        Guide of 1874, one G. L. Canine of 
                        Brown
                     Township gets considerably more space than anyone else. After his name appears this
                    passage in square brackets: "This man claims to be liberal in his political views, and
                    believes in progression generally. He also claims that he is persecuted for telling the truth and
                    being the friend of old Thompson." In a snide tone the compiler added, "If we knew
                    who 'Old Thompson' is, or was, we might help
                    our friend.—Writer."1 But "writer" simply
                    revealed an outsider's ignorance. "Old Thompson" was certainly known to
                    more people than C. L. Canine: two of his sons were in the Guide as 
                        Crawfordsville
                     lawyers.2 Indeed this strange entry indicates the low estate to
                    which the patriarch of a very interesting family had fallen. "Old Thompson" was
                    Grigg Matthew Thompson, eldest son of Wilson Thompson who had been one of the most eloquent and
                    influential Primitive Baptist ministers of the Middle West.3 Born on the 
                        Missouri
                     frontier in 1811 to a father of genuinely heroic proportions, Grigg Matthew was fated
                    to spend his life defending a creed which, by the time he became one of its greatest champions, was
                    already a quaint anachronism. He was the father of Maurice and Will Thompson—lawyers,
                    railroad engineers, archers, fledgling poets—a couple of dashing young ex-Confederates
                    who had captured as wives two daughters of John Lee, prominent railroad entrepreneur, and who were
                    running as fast as they could away from their Primitive Baptist heritage toward fame and fortune in
                    Methodist-Presbyterian bourgeois gentility.4
            
            So far as he is known today at all, Maurice Thompson is remembered as the author of Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1900), as a patron saint of archery clubs, and perhaps to a few readers who
                    still relish Meredith Nicholson's The Hoosiers as second only to Lew
                    Wallace among the group of writers making 
                        Crawfordsville
                     an "
                        Athens
                     of Indiana." His staying power as writer and thinker has proved to be minimal
                    indeed, although at the time of his death in 1901 his canon of poetry, novels, and literary
                    criticism was very 
                  
                     ∗ Walter L. Fertig is professor of English and chairman of
                            the English Department, 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            The People's Guide: A Business, Political and Religious Directory of 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., Ind. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1874), 254.
                  
                     2 "Thompson, J. N." [error for "J.
                            M.," i.e. "James Maurice"] and "Thompson, W.
                            H.," ibid., 188.
                  
                     3 In addition to the Autobiography noted below, the
                            best of the very meagre accounts of Wilson Thompson's life are in R. H. Pittman
                            (ed.), Biographical History of Primitive or Old School Baptist Ministers of the
                                United States (Anderson, Ind., 1909), 266-67; and William T. Scott, Indiana Baptist History, 1798-1908 (
                                Franklin
                            , Ind., 1908), 67–71.
                  
                     4 On Maurice Thompson, see Frank H. Ristine, "James Maurice
                            Thompson," Dictionary of America Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), XVIII, 460–61; and Otis B. Wheeler, The
                                Literary Career of Maurice Thompson (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1965). For both Will and Maurice Thompson, see Dorothy Ritter Russo and Thelma
                            Lois 
                                Sullivan
                            , Bibliographical Studies of Seven Authors of 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1952), 173–288. Grigg Thompson is in Pittman, Biographical History, 267–68.
               
                    
                    
                  GRIGG MATTHEW THOMPSON Reproduced from R. H. Pittman (ed.), Biographical Hirtory
                                of Primitive or Old School Baptist Ministers of the United States (Andenon, Ind.,
                            1909).
               
                    
                  WILSON THOMPSON Reproduced from The Autobiography of Elder Wilson Thompson (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1867).
               
                    
                    
                  MAURICE THOMPSON Courtesy Lilly Library.
               
                     highly regarded. As a cultural phenomenon, Thompson is much less
                    simple and much more important than his current reputation would indicate. From one point of view,
                    he is a classic example of the mindless genteel, of the self-satisfied Victorian mentality. And yet,
                    against the background of his family, he can be seen as he apparently saw himself: an energetic and
                    progressive force in a progressive community. An exploration of this paradox is the purpose of this
                    paper.
            The story has features of a family novel by Mann or Galsworthy, with a first generation in a strong,
                    primitively heroic mold and a third generation completely alienated, looking back from a position of
                    bemused apostasy. This paper's main concern is with the generation between, a stratum often
                    weak and unimpressive, shuttling between two worlds, with periods of tremendous energy and faith and
                    periods of doubt, despair, and near-paralysis. The epic of the first generation is The
                        Autobiography of Elder Wilson Thompson,5 for a century a favorite
                    testament of the Primitive Baptists. The book's long passages of Primitive Baptist rhetoric
                    and polemic make it hard going for most readers today, but it is in part a fascinating story of
                    pioneer heroism and spiritual integrity. In 1894, Maurice Thompson, the grandson, picked up this
                    book and, for a pleasant hour or so, read it as he read Walter 
                        Scott
                     and Robin Hood, as a tale of heroism and romance. The reading
                    triggered some personal memories of the grandfather, "straight, broad-shouldered, deep-
                    chested, lion faced," with a "voice that might have jarred and tumbled the walls
                    of Jericho." Maurice also remembered how the old Olympian had a way of "grabbing
                    me with his iron hands; and after he had flung me on high he would jounce me with his big knee, much
                    to the danger of my bones."6 This passage, which reads like a memory of
                    being in the hands of a god or superman and barely escaping with one's delicate life, has
                    arresting psychological overtones, not relevant enough to pause upon here. Maurice Thompson,
                    however, has almost nothing to say about his father or, for that matter, about any of his blood
                    relatives except his brother Will and his grandfather. He tried to slip his Primitive Baptist
                    heritage completely except as a remote, quaint, perhaps embarrassing, even terrifying old family
                    tradition. From the way Maurice treats them, it is hard to believe that Wilson Thompson lived until
                    1866, preaching his last sermon in the town of 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, a month before he died;7 and that Grigg Thompson lived
                    until 1888, fighting the good fight until the end.
            A full treatment of the first generation in the Thompson family would make a significant study of
                    pioneering. After years of itinerant preaching and wandering in 
                  Missouri, Kentucky
               ,
                    and 
                        Ohio
                    , Wilson Thompson settled in the 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, area about 1834 when he was in his middle forties. He still preached in many
                    churches and was often minister to several at one 
                  
                     5 Wilson Thompson, The Autobiography of Elder Wilson
                                Thompson… (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1867). This work was republished in 1962 by Elder Edgar T. Aleshire,
                                    
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     , and Elder Lasserre Bradley, Jr.,
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     . Citations in this paper refer to the 1962
                            edition.
                  
                     6 Maurice Thompson, "A Christian Silhouet of 1812,"
                                The Independent, XLVI (June 21, 1894), 768.
                  
                     7 See the final chapter, "Last Ministerial Labors and
                            Death," written by one of Thompson's children, in Thompson, Autobiography, 332–43.
               
                     time. In counties adjacent to 
                  Fayette, Rush
                and 
                        Franklin
                     for example, he was long remembered as an oracle from afar, called in to revitalize
                    flagging faith with thunderbolts of oratory.8 The founder and gigantic pillar of
                    a church, he also had the power to split and destroy a church when his commitment called for it.9 Thompson had also been a leader in secular life, serving two
                    terms—1837 and 1841—in the House of Representatives of the state
                        legislature.10 And, as his grandson Maurice related the family tradition, he
                    was once "defeated by a few votes" when he ran for representative to the national
                        Congress.11 Alas, this legend breaks down; the record shows that in the
                    election of 1843, Wilson Thompson got exactly fifty-two votes out of more than eight thousand cast
                    in the Fourth District, all from 
                        Union County
                    , perhaps all from one rebellious congregation.12 But surely Maurice
                    Thompson was not the first poet to distort his account of the heroic age of his ancestors.
            Wilson Thompson's stature among Primitive Baptists, even those who opposed his views, was
                    not, at any rate, a product of latter-day distortion. His books on doctrine and his long articles in
                    Primitive Baptist periodicals, usually expounding in an earthy and yet highly eloquent rhetoric some
                    complicated interpretation of a passage from scripture, were sought after and reprinted, sometimes
                    long after his death.13 He was doctrinally a primitive among primitives. To
                    Primitive Baptists generally, most churches professing Calvinism had compromised on predestination
                    and were therefore impure. In 1845, Wilson Thompson detected such an impurity in his own church and
                    proceeded to lead a militant minority in the furious Anti-Means controversy, which actually got into 
                        Rush County
                     court when the contending parties fought over the title to a church property. The full
                    report of this trial, in which Thompson was a principal witness, reveals every detail of Primitive
                    Baptist faith, liturgy, rules of decorum, church government, and, of course, the flinty and
                    litigious temperaments of the church leaders. The "means" people said 
                  
                     8 See Thomas Goodwin, "Early Religious Movements in the
                                Whitewater Valley," in J. H. Beers, Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 73.
                  
                     9 At Big Cedar Grove in 
                                Franklin County
                            , Wilson Thompson was remembered as a sower of doubt and discord in the
                            1840's. See August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, Her People, Industries and Institutions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 441–42.
                  
                     10 Indiana, House Journal (1837), 167, and passim; Indiana, House Journal (1841), passim, especially the report of Thompson's committee to investigate the
                            sale of state bonds, 612–14.
                  
                     11 Maurice Thompson to William Baskerville, March 19, 1887, William
                            Baskerville Papers, Special Collections and Archives, Joint University Libraries,
                                    
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     .
                  
                     12 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough (comps.), Indiana
                                Election Returns, 1816–1851 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 106. Thompson was one of four candidates on the ballot. He seems to
                            have run as an independent.
                  
                     13 The most comprehensive background work on anti-missionism is Bryan
                            Cecil Lambert, "The Rise of the Anti-Mission Baptists: Sources and Leaders,
                            1800–1840" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University of
                            Chiacgo, 1957). Also helpful were: John F. Cady, The Origin and Development of
                                the Missionary Baptist Church in Indiana (
                                Franklin
                            , Ind., 1942); Robert G. Torbet, A History of the Baptists (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1950), especially 286–97; William Warren Sweet (ed.), Religion on the American Frontier: The Baptists, 1730-1830 (Reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1964), especially chapter 3; and Frank S. Mead, Handbook of
                                Denominations in the United States (2nd. rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1961). Titles of Wilson Thompson's books are mentioned in Pittman,
                                Biographical History, 267. His articles appear continually in the
                            Primitive Baptist periodical Signs of the Times, especially volumes IV
                            through XXVII (1836–1859).
               
                     in effect that the gospel and the preached word were means to
                    salvation. To Wilson Thompson this was cheating: no means whatever were effective in salvation. The
                    gospel and the ministers' preaching were for the "comfort and
                    instruction" of God's chosen. If a man felt he was chosen, he could present
                    himself before the already-chosen for examination. If they decided he was indeed chosen, he was
                    offered the right hand of fellowship and partook of the comfort and instruction.14 Such extreme predestinarianism, particularly when it was combined with the Baptist
                    insistence on complete separation of church and state, came very near making superfluous any church
                    organization or activity whatsoever. Indeed the activity that separated the Primitives from the main
                    body of the church in the 1820's and 1830's was an effort usually thought of as
                    representing the energy and courage of frontier Christianity at its best—the missionary
                    movement. A crucial moment in Wilson Thompson's career came when he was on his way to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to join Elder Isaac McCoy's mission to the Indians.15
                    "Who hath required this at your hand?" demanded a voice in the woods.16 From that moment Wilson Thompson was a strong anti-missionist. The Primitives
                    could also find no scriptural authority for Sunday Schools, Bible Societies, or colleges to train
                    preachers to preach an obvious and unequivocal gospel.17
            
            What seems to be merely stubborn obtuseness in this doctrine made much frontier sense. The Baptists
                    as a whole believed and practiced a radical democracy—the Primitive Baptists a little
                    more so. Many of the Primitives even turned their backs on the all-conquering bourgeoisie. They
                    would not be governed by the tyranny of unrestricted fellowship and the economics of city life. They
                    were nearly all independent farmers, true Jeffersonian agrarians who lived out near the county line.
                    The monstrousness of large organization was to be feared continually. There was nothing wrong with
                    being a missionary if one felt called to be one. What was wrong was taking hard-earned money from
                    God's people to support a missionary society with offices in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Temperance was fine if God called one to temperance, but God would put into the hands
                    of no man such corrupting power as a sackful of offerings for the support of a temperance society
                    with headquarters far removed from the surveillance of the contributors. There was even nothing
                    wrong with a minister's being educated—as Wilson Thompson seems to have
                    been—if by chance God called an educated man to the ministry. But the idea of taxing
                    churches for the support of 
                        Franklin
                     College, where money might disappear in many mysterious ways, was an idea demanding
                    suspicion. These were very logical deductions of Primitive Baptist Protestantism.
            
               
                  14 George C. Clark, Means vs. Anti-Means; or the Trial of the
                            Baptist Church Case in the 
                                Rush
                             Circuit Court (
                            Rushville
                        , Ind., 1846). Thompson's testimony is on pages 24–30.
               
                  15 McCoy was by far the most prominent and heroic of the early Baptist
                        missionaries in Indiana. His famous decision to devote his efforts to the Indians was made in
                        1817. See Cady, Missionary Baptist Church in Indiana, 84–92.
               
                  16 Thompson, Autobiography, 199–200.
               
                  17 The germinal statement is in the famous "Black Rock
                        Address" of Elder Samuel Trott (1832), quoted and discussed in Lambert, "Rise
                        of the Anti-Mission Baptists," 368.
            
            
            In fiction and legend, the Primitive Baptist is sometimes caricatured as a
                    "hard-shell," hard-drinking, gospel-shouting misanthrope.18
                    But very few frontier Protestants of whatever sect were permanently depressed or bigoted by a grim
                    theology. Grigg Thompson's granddaughter remembered the "booming,
                    contagious" laughter which accompanied the droll stories he told about his experiences as a
                    backwoods preacher.19 Primitive Baptist association meetings were week ends of
                    big picnics and big arguments, in addition, of course, to much praying and preaching. And then there
                    was the continually lusty, enervating battle of wits and Biblical learning with the other sects on
                    the frontier. The camp-meeting revivals were more spectacular, but some glamor and certainly much
                    heat could be generated by Primitive Baptist debates with such subtle enemies as the
                    Campbellites—to say nothing of the voluble Methodists. Such was the Primitives'
                    taste for vigorous argument that worthy opponents could be cultivated as friends. In T. S.
                    Stribling's novel The Forge, old Jimmy Vaiden is a hard-shell Baptist
                    whose best friend is a Methodist circuit rider primarily because Jimmy could get into good arguments
                    with a Methodist. Jimmy didn't like the Campbellite preacher because Jimmy's
                    simple mind couldn't find enough difference between hard-shell doctrine and Campbellism to
                    argue about.20 But to Primitives like the Thompsons, the Campbellites and even
                    wayward preachers of their own church, such as die Two-Seed-in-the-Spirit Predestinarians,21 were the most challenging opponents. When this combativeness was followed by
                    splits in the church, by splits in the splits, and by congregations reduced to a few old faithfuls
                    with almost complete alienation of the younger generation, the Primitive church began to lose its
                    vitality.
            Grigg Matthew Thompson, as a young man, had seen his father standing tall as a civic leader and
                    pillar of the church. Thirty years later, after many wanderings and troubles, Grigg himself is
                    "Old Thompson," something of an embarrassment to his friends the Canines and
                    something of an oddity to his own children. He did not always act heroic, but he did not quit until
                    he died. Somehow, it is hard to dismiss him the way his son Maurice dismissed him.
            When Grigg Thompson brought his family to 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, in 1868, they were coming back to the North after fourteen years of widely
                    varying fortunes in the hill country of northern 
                        Georgia
                    . In the middle fifties, Grigg Thompson, with his wife and children, had moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     to the Cherokee Hills of 
                        Gordon County
                     in 
                        Georgia
                    , apparently with an idea of establishing some roots and comforts, as Wilson Thompson
                    had in 
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana. Ten years earlier, the violent split in his father's church 
                  
                     18 See, for example, "Old Uncle John Olive," in
                            Joseph G. Baldwin, The Flush Times of 
                                    Alabama
                                 and 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1891), 318–23.
                  
                     19 Jessie Thompson Ballard, "Pioneer 
                                Georgia
                             Preacher," 
                                Atlanta
                            , Ga., Journal, February 4, 1934.
                  
                     20 T. S. Stribling, The Forge (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1931), 4–6, 238.
                  
                     21 The doctrine of "two-seeds-in-the-spirit," a
                            crude explanation of the relationship between God and the devil (both of whose seeds are
                            implanted in man), was developed by the famous Daniel Parker, an extreme and eloquent
                            anti-missionist who exerted a great influence in southern Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             in the 1820's and 1830's. See Gady, Missionary
                                Baptist Church in Indiana, 50–57.
               
                     during the Anti-Means controversy probably revealed to Grigg that
                    the Primitive Baptist cause in Indiana was doomed.22
                    
                        Gordon County
                     perhaps looked like a good place for a new start. During the Civil War the Thompsons
                    seem to have lived in or near Calhoun, the county seat; and Thompson's leadership of the
                    nearby Harmony Church from 1861 to 1868 was long remembered as a golden age. "Old members
                    recall," writes the county historian, "that on a memorable Sunday, forty-six
                    adherents of the faith were admitted into the church after baptism by immersion in Town Creek
                        nearby."23 Calhoun also has a legend that Thompson and "a
                    gentleman of opposite faith once exploited their religious dogmas in the local assembly room for an
                    entire week, the debates continuing from morning until night with large audiences in attendance and
                    unabated interest."24 A conscientious Primitive might have winced at
                    that word exploited, but it has an ironic appropriateness.
            
               
                        Gordon County
                     was not in the center of Sherman's path, but it was close enough. The war
                    apparently knocked the Thompsons out financially. When they first went to 
                        Georgia
                    , they had the means (perhaps inherited by Mrs. Thompson, a member of the
                    Jägger family of 
                        Fayette County
                    ) to acquire at least temporary title to two small farms. In the census of 1860 Thompson
                    listed real estate worth $1,600 and personal property worth $800, a modest
                    holding, but far above average for 
                        Gordon County
                    .25 (The slave schedules list no slaves belonging to Thompson.) When
                    the Thompsons came north in 1868, they apparently had nothing. The family split up, Grigg, Mrs.
                    Thompson, and the youngest child going to live among the Canines in 
                        Brown
                     Township. Maurice and Alice Thompson lived on the Lee place near Smartsburg.26 Maurice's father-in-law, John Lee, was a prominent Democrat but not
                    yet a railroad magnate. Lee's father, however, had been a Primitive Baptist elder and a
                    leader of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     church from its beginning 
                  
                     22 From census reports and other scattered sources came the following
                            vital statistics on the Grigg Thompson family: Grigg married Diantha Jaegger April 7, 1831,
                            in 
                                Fayette
                            , County, Indiana. The family remained in the area of 
                                Fayette
                             and 
                                Franklin
                             counties until 1841 or 1842, during which time at least three children were
                            born—Minerva (1832), Mariah (1839), and James 
                                Madison
                            , later "Maurice," a modification made in the 1860's,
                            (1840). In the early 1840's there was a move to 
                                Missouri
                             where Mary (1843) and Will H. (1846) were born. Between 1846 and 1849, the
                            family moved to 
                        Fleming County, Kentucky
                     , where Thomas P. (1849), and
                            Diantha (1854 or 1855) were born, in addition to a son, Grigg, born in October, 1850, who
                            lived only one year. Soon after the birth of Diantha came the move to 
                        Gordon County, Georgia
                     . Diantha was still living with her mother and father when
                            the family came back to Indiana. Thomas has been tentatively but almost positively
                            identified as living in 1870, with his wife, on the farm of 
                                Henry
                             Talbot two miles southwest of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            . In June of 1868, Maurice married Alice Lee. Will married Alice's
                            sister Ida Lee about 1870. The two brothers set up as lawyers in 
                                Crawfordsville
                             about 1871. These facts are at variance with many sources at many points,
                            including the date of Maurice Thompson's birth, which he himself placed in 1844.
                            But this is contradicted by four successive census reports (1850, 1860, 1870, and 1880).
                            Many questions about the family remain unanswered.
                  
                     23 Lulie Pitts, History of 
                           Gordon County, Georgia
                        
                      (Calhoun, Ga., 1933), 275.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 456.
                  
                     25 U.S., Eighth Census, 
                                Georgia
                            , National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , VII, 344. The material cited here and in other footnotes referring to census
                            reports is taken from the original census returns and cannot be found in the published
                            volumes.
                  
                     26 U.S., Ninth Census, Indiana, 
                                Montgomery County
                            , XXVII, 17, 145, microfilm copy, Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     until his death in 1848.27 Lee never gave up
                    his membership in the old church. Although Maurice Thompson seemed to forget about it later, the
                    original anchors of his family in 
                        Montgomery County
                     were dirt farming and the Primitive Baptist church, not the railroad building, the law
                    practice, the poetry, the friendship of Lew Wallace, or any of the other more genteel and prosperous
                    connections of later years.
            
               
                        Union
                     Church in 
                        Brown
                     Township, where Grigg Thompson deposited his letter, had been started in 1826 at the
                    house of patriarch Ralph Canine, born in 1789 and still a decade away from his death. His sons J. J.
                    Canine and Thompson's "friend" C. L. Canine were well-to-do farmers and
                    church leaders, J. J. being perennial clerk of the congregation.28 Another son,
                    William Canine, had become a Republican and listed his wealth at $50,000 in 1870.29 Thompson was still a great preacher and a good neighbor, but he was
                    definitely down on his luck. His family was breaking up, and no more than one of his sons had stayed
                    with the church. There is evidence to suggest, however, that during his first year or two in
                        Brown's Valley, Thompson was a moving force of some power, first
                    for construction and later, as one might expect, for destruction.
            Not, of course, that anything like the triumphs of Harmony Church in 
                  Gordon County, Georgia
               , was in
                    the offing. The 
                        Union
                     group was small and static. Twenty-five or thirty people attended the monthly meetings,
                    and months went by without the acceptance of a new member. Thompson was never the titular leader of
                    the church. He was elected assistant to Elder J. J. Goben, the regular preacher, at the end of 1869
                    and was continued in that office a year later.30 He preached and prayed
                    frequently in these first two years; but at the very meeting where his assistantship was continued
                    at the end of 1870, he was accused by James Long of "disorder" for taking part in
                    an ordination at a church not in fellowship with 
                        Union
                    . The congregation completely exonerated Thompson,31 but one of
                    those unbeatable splits had opened. One cannot help suspecting personal, temperamental animosities
                    revealed only obliquely by the church minutes. J. J. Canine, clerk of the congregation, brought up
                    the "disorder" charge again in October of 1871; and this time, in spite of his
                    earlier "exoneration," Thompson had to ask forgiveness for making an error. The
                    forgiveness was granted and the charge quashed forever, which may mean simply that Thompson still
                    controlled some votes.32 But three months later Elder Goben was elected preacher
                    by "private ballot," and the position of assistant preacher was not filled.33 Finally in October, 1872, a new charge was brought by Ralph Canine himself, a
                    charge com- 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, September 29, 1923. This information was included in the report
                            of a speech by M. M. Canine at the centennial of the 
                                Crawfordsville
                             Primitive Church.
                  
                     28 The Minute Book of 
                                Union
                             Church is in the private possession of Mr. Clair Wilkinson of New Market,
                            Indiana, who kindly loaned it to the author.
                  
                     29 U.S., Ninth Census, Indiana, 
                                Montgomery County
                            , XXVII, 11.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Union
                             Church Minute Book, December 25, 1869, and December 24, 1870.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., January 21, 1871.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., October 26, 1871.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., December 23, 1871.
               
                     pounded of an old heresy and personal pique: "for
                    saying to me that he did not believe in any Jesus only in purpose then when I talked to him about it
                    afterwards he said to me he never said it." The charge was taken up and sustained after
                    "a good deal of conversation," and Thompson had to make a lengthy explanation.
                    "What I said in my sermon was not in reference to Brother Canine," he insisted,
                    trying to separate the personal from the doctrinal. He had "axt" Brother Canine if
                    he could do anything to satisfy him, to which Canine had replied that it must come before the
                    church. The peroration of Thompson's explanation before that body speaks for itself: 
                        As for the conversation between Brother Canine and myself and my saying that I did not
                            believe there was any Jesus untill he was Born of the Virgin Mary I have no recollection of
                            any sutch conversation I cannot say that we never did talk on that subject for we have had
                            many conversations that I cannot now recolect what was our topic of conversation. But I am
                            sure that Brother and Sister Canine misunderstood me or… I in some way spoke
                            unguarded and in a way to Misrepresent My own faith for I have never believed preached or
                            written anything of the kind but all ways to the reverse…. the cause of Christ
                            and the feelings of my Brethren are Dearer to me than all things else and for that cause and
                            their feelings I am ready to do anything that is right and just.34
                  
                     The loophole in the final sentence does not destroy the tone of earnest sincerity, but
                    there are squirming and defensiveness here too. In May of 1873 Thompson requested a letter of
                    dismission, and the church replied by handing him his old letter back.35 John
                    Lee, now president of the 
                  Logansport, Crawfordsville
               , and Southwestern Railroad, entered the
                    argument on Thompson's side from Walnut Creek Church36 and was seconded
                    by C. L. Canine, now very close to the awkward moment when he made his statement to the People's Guide.37 From C. L. Canine, the church of the
                    Canines promptly withdrew the right hand of fellowship.38 In the summer of 1874
                    nine members withdrew from 
                        Union
                     Church in protest against the treatment of Thompson, including one Thomas Thompson and
                    his wife Delia, probably Grigg Thompson's son and daughter-in-law.39 C.
                    L. Canine and some of the other separators were reinstated later,40 but the
                    Thompsons disappeared from the church records forever.
            Such detailed accounts of Grigg Thompson's career are available only at widely spaced
                    intervals, but this scene may very well be representative—a period of success followed by
                    a period of wrangling, doubt, despair, and disintegration. A church was split, a family was divided,
                    and the preacher had to move on, alone. Twenty years earlier, Grigg Thompson had written, to a
                    Primitive Baptist periodical, letters full of fear, depression, and remorse 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., October 26, 1872. Although the minutes indicate that this was a
                            signed statement, the handwriting is that of the clerk; and one cannot know how much of the
                            "flavor" of the passage is to be credited to Thompson.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., May 24, 1873.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., June 21, 1873.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., December 27, 1873.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., April 25, 1874.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., June 27, 1874.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., February 26, 1876.
               
                     for his role in the divisive controversies of the church.41 In 1880, on the other hand, Elder and Mrs. Thompson were living with their
                    now successful son Maurice on East Main Street in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , and one might think the preacher had finally retired to the comforts of the bourgeois
                        world.42 Six years later, however, he appears far away in 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Texas
                    , fighting the old war on one of the few fronts left. At the age of seventy-five he
                    entered into the lists for the nineteenth and presumably last time against one of the old enemies,
                    an experienced Cambellite debater who, although he was a younger man, had one more official debate
                    to his credit than Thompson had. The proposition affirmed by Thompson has a familiar ring:
                    "The giving of Spiritual or eternal life to a sinner dead in sins, is the work of God,
                    independent of the written word of Scriptures." This the Cambellite, one Wilmeth, denied.
                    It was the old Means versus Anti-Means argument once again. The country had been shaken by Civil
                    War, Reconstruction, the Greenbackers, and the Haymarket Riot; but the eternal questions were
                    inexaustible and the debates went on forever. The reporter of this Last Tournament says,
                    "It was unanimously admitted by all, except the Campbellites, that Brother Thompson
                    sustained his proposition by Bible testimony and weight of argument, and defeated
                    Wilmeth… breaking the backbone of Campbellism and literally demolishing this miserable
                    modern system of materialism."43
            
            Earlier in the same year Thompson had shown the old fire in a long letter to a new Primitive Baptist
                    paper being published in 
                        Greenfield
                    , Indiana, by one of his nephews. A quotation from this letter makes a good closing
                    cadence here, not only because it is one of Thompson's last statements, but because it is
                    essentially and necessarily typical of so many others. 
                        The Church of Christ is to hear him in all things and to be prompt in executing the laws of
                            his kingdom. Errors permitted to exist in it will eat as doth a canker, and spread as a vile
                            leprosy, until the whole body becomes a filthy cankerous, stinking corpse. This loathsome
                            and deadly disease may start in a society to raise money for the poor and the preacher, or
                            to employ an evangelist to visit the destitute churches, or for a church college, or a
                            church publishing house, and as it advances, like the same thing started about one hundred
                            years ago, you will bring the church in union with more than a score of humanly devised
                            institutions, and Christ and his laws will be forgotten by the ministry, and you will hear
                            nothing from your pulpits but these societies lauded as the most efficient means of grace
                            ever invented, and your money demanded to sustain them; and to get this money your church
                            house, erected for God's service, will be turned into a place of speculation and
                            money-gathering, and tea parties, strawberry and ice-cream feasts, oyster suppers, tableaux,
                            and festivals. All these must be practiced under the sanction of the church, and taught and
                            encouraged by the ministry. This is no painted picture, but a simple statement of facts that
                            can be witnessed in the sect that was driven from the church by her non-fellowship resolutions….44
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     41
                            Signs of the Times, XVI-XX (1848–1852), passim. These letters also contain biographical material. See also Pittman, Biographical History, 267–68.
                  
                     42 U.S., Tenth Census, Indiana, 
                                Montgomery County
                            , XXIV, 329, microfilm copy, Genealogy Division.
                  
                     43
                            The Primitive Monitor, I (September 15, 1886), 859–60.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., (January 15, 1886), 53.
               
                     "Non-fellowship" as a positive concept, as an
                    antidote to the latitudinarianism and the endless "activities" of a modern church,
                    may have a certain limited appeal even today; but not to very many good Christians, not even to
                    Primitive Baptists. The concept had if anything less appeal in 1886.
            Two years later, Grigg Thompson suffered a fall from his horse and died soon after in or near Ashland
                    in central 
                        Missouri
                    . By this tune, Maurice Thompson had passed beyond a profitable career in the law and a
                    modest success in politics as a Democrat, including a term in the state legislature (1879) and an
                    appointment as a state geologist in 1885. He had to his credit five novels and many poems, stories,
                    and articles. He was an established midwestern virtuoso, both as naturalist and as defender of
                    bourgeois idealism. Literature was now the center of his activity; and he had been for some time a
                    regular contributor to the Independent, a 
                        New York
                     periodical in which eventually appeared more than two hundred of his articles, stories,
                    and poems. He no longer spent the damp winters in Indiana. He and his wife cut short their winter
                    sojourn at Bay 
                  St. Louis, Louisiana
               , to bring the old warrior back to be buried in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .45 Maurice had only a dozen years left to him, and a proposed
                    autobiography never got written.46 Instead there is Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               , not lacking in attractiveness of its own, but not showing any particular
                    spiritual courage or intensity. There is also this, however: 
                        A critic who has fallen in love with Tolstoi and Zola is driven to argue ad
                                hominem, and this is why Mr. Howells feels bound to apotheoize Tolstoi and uphold
                            his theory of abject poverty and non-resistance of evil. Mr. Howells' whole
                            doctrine is that mediocrity is all of human life that is interesting—that a mild
                            sort of vulgarity is the one living truth in the character of men and women. His criticisms
                            are written to insist upon the commonplace as the one desirable element in fiction. It is to
                            clinch and illustrate this doctrine that he approves Tolstoi's course in putting
                            his daughters out to work in the fields with peasants, and putting himself at the
                            shoemaker's bench in order, as he says, to be like Christ. Realism must go to this
                            length, or it must fall. If the picturesque, the lofty, the soul-stirring, in short, the
                            ideal must be driven from fiction, then the low, the coarse, the vulgar, the commonplace,
                            and at last the immoral must take its place…. These critics… have the
                            notion that to be a Christian one must wear brogans No. 10 and refuse to live on a carpet.
                            Indeed, realism, no matter what turn it takes, ends in abject vulgarity.47
                  
                     Grigg Thompson would have had very little idea of what his most famous son was talking
                    about here; and he might not have appreciated the observation that as literary criticism, this
                    sounds Primitive, if not Paleolithic. But he might have recognized the fire and conviction, and he
                    might have applauded the crescendo of indignation. When Maurice Thompson got mad, he too could speak
                    in a voice capable of tumbling the walls of Jericho.
            
               
                  45
                        
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Weekly Review, March 17, April 7, 1888.
               
                  46 Maurice Thompson to William Baskerville, March 19, 1887, Baskerville
                        Papers.
               
                  47
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Times, August 14, 1887, Supplement, 1. Many similar passages from Maurice
                        Thompson's literary criticism could be cited. His literary biographer has called his
                        criticism the locus classicus of genteel conservatism. See Wheeler, Literary Career of Maurice Thompson, 58–92, 137–39. For
                        an account of Thompson's clash with William Dean Howells, see Edwin H. Cady, The Realist at War (
                            Syracuse
                        , N.Y., 1958), 32–34.
            
         
         
         
            A Letter from Maurice Thompson
            
                    Edited by John T. Flanagan
                    ∗
                
            In the early 1890's Maurice Thompson, a substantial citizen of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, reached the height of his literary fame.1 He had been
                    appointed literary editor of the Independent in 1889, he had published articles
                    and stories in the Atlantic and the Century, and he was known to
                    readers of popular romance as the author of a half dozen novels. Recognition of another kind came to
                    him also. He was invited to speak on various occasions, and he seized the opportunity to express his
                    ideas of literary art or to read his own poetry. Three such occasions occurred in 1893. In May he
                    delivered the Carew Lectures at Hartford Theological Seminary; on July 4 he read a patriotic poem
                    entitled "The Bloom o' the World" at the Roseland Park Festival,
                    Woodstock, 
                        Connecticut
                    . But more important than either was his invitation to deliver a Phi Beta Kappa poem at 
                        Harvard
                     in June. Thompson read his "
                        Lincoln
                    's Grave" and enjoyed immediate success. The following letter to
                    Thomas Wentworth Higginson relates to the occasion.2 The letter is particularly
                    noteworthy because it registers Thompson's apparent change of view about 
                        New England
                     despite his southern origins.
            
               
                  ∗ John T. Flanagan is professor of English at the University of
                                
                     Illinois, Urbana
                  , and author of "A Look at Some Middle Western
                        Gazetteers," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (December, 1965),
                        283–304.
               
                  1 For a compact summary of James Maurice Thompson's life
                        (1844–1901), see Otis B. Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice
                            Thompson (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1965), chapter 1.
               
                  2 Thomas Wentworth Higginson, colonel of a Negro regiment in the Civil
                        War, a Unitarian minister, and both a novelist and biographer, is perhaps best known for his
                        editing of the poems of Emily Dickinson.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sherwood Place1
                              
                              
                                 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                  Indiana
                           
                                
                        Dear Colonel Higginson—
                        Your letter and one from Mrs Woods have conscientiously followed me from pillar to
                                    post until they have finally reached me here.
                        My movements while in the east were controlled by Mr. Henry G. Bowen who had me
                                    engaged for a Fourth o' July at Woodstock Gonnicticut.2
                        
                        Very much indeed should I have enjoyed a day or two at your home, and I need not tell
                                    you how much I regret not seeing you. In fact I saw no one while at 
                                        Cambridge
                                    , save a few of the 
                                        Harvard
                                     men. In 
                                        Connecticut
                                    , however, I met many distinguished people and many, quite as
                                    interesting, who were not famous. It was a genuine pleasure to dine between Mrs.
                                    Julia Ward Howe and her daughter (Mrs Elliott) not so much because they are literary
                                    and well known as because Mrs Howe, like yourself, represents that 
                                        New England
                                     spirit which we of the South once thought so terribly and maliciously
                                    wrong! Mrs. Elliott pleased me greatly with her vigorous physique and charming
                                    conversational wit. Mrs Howe is a noble woman.3 My first glimpse
                                    of 
                                        New England
                                     has made me hungry to see more of it. My reception at P.B.K. Harvard
                                    was a revelation. Why it was an audience explosively responsive. I was captivated,
                                    and the impression of the occasion is very precious to me.4
                        
                        
                                    Truly yours
                                    Maurice Thompson
                                    10 July 1893—
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 With the exception of a few minor changes in spacing the following
                        letter is an exact reproduction of the original. Thompson frequently omitted periods after
                        abbreviations, in one place misspelled "
                            Connecticut
                        ," and in another instance left out the comma between city and state. These
                        errors have been retained but have not been indicated by a [sic]. The original
                        letter is in the possession of John T. Flanagan, Department of English, University of
                                
                     Illinois, Urbana
                  . Through his wife's inheritance Thompson had
                        bought in 1892 or 1893 a large house in 
                            Crawfordsville
                         which he called Sherwood Place; it was surrounded by a five-acre plot of woods and
                        garden. See Otis B. Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice Thompson (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1965), 36.
               
                  2
                        
                            Henry
                         Chandler Bowen (1813–1896), a native of Woodstock, was a founder and
                        later the publisher and proprietor of the Independent.
               
                  3 Julia Ward Howe, notable for her support of Negro emancipation and
                        women's suffrage, is best known as the author of "The Battle Hymn of the
                        Republic." Maude Howe Elliott and Laura E. Richards published a biography of their
                        mother in 1916 which was awarded a Pulitzer prize.
               
                  4
                        
                     
                                Lincoln
                            's Grave was published in an edition of 450 copies by Stone and
                        Kimball, 
                            Cambridge
                         and 
                            Chicago
                        , 1894, pp. 48. The poem is a conventional and somewhat imitative eulogy. But at
                        least one critic, Fred Lewis Pattee, found the poem memorable as a representation of
                        "the new Western soul." See A History of American Literature
                            since 1870 (
                            New York
                        , 1917), 324.
            
         
         
         
            Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.: Historian of American Catholicism
            
                    Francis J. Weber
                    ∗
                
            It is the firm conviction of Father Thomas T. McAvoy, archivist and professor of history at the
                    University of Notre Dame, that "The divorce between government and religious institutions,
                    especially outside the thirteen original states, and the tendency to write history from governmental
                    sources has resulted in an underwriting and even an ignoring of religious history in the United
                        States."1 In his own capacity as a nationally recognized authority
                    on American Catholic history, McAvoy has devoted his intellectual talents to reversing the trend
                    which traditionally has placed such study among "the most neglected subjects in the
                    curricula of American Catholic institutions through high school, college, seminary and university
                        levels."2
            
            Thomas Timothy McAvoy was born at 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, on September 12, 1903. There he acquired his earliest education at Saint
                    John's School from the Sisters of Saint Joseph. After completing courses at 
                        Tipton
                     Public High School, McAvoy entered Holy Cross, one of the theological colleges
                    affiliated with The Catholic University of America in 
                        Washington
                    . Shortly after his ordination to the priesthood on June 24, 1929, the young priest was
                    assigned to organize the uncataloged historical collections which had been amassed at the University
                    of Notre Dame by the late Professor James F. Edwards. Six years later he enrolled at 
                        Columbia
                     University as a doctoral candidate in the field of American history. Upon his return to 
                        South Bend
                     in 1938, Father McAvoy became chairman of Notre Dame's department of history,
                    a position he occupied with considerable success for the next twenty- one years. Since 1942 he has
                    been co-managing editor of the university's highly respected Review of
                        Politics.
            As a long-time professor of the cultural and social history of the United States, McAvoy has been
                    committed to the theory that the study of history "will lead the student into the real
                    world and teach him patience, precision, and humility in the face of truth"; and this, he
                    points out, "is no mean element in any liberal education."3 In
                    his own historical research the widely- read historian has avoided the label of
                    "popularizer." Although admitting the usefulness of constantly engaging in
                    controversy about the character of 
                  
                     ∗ The Reverend Francis J. Weber is archivist of the
                            Archdiocese of 
                                Los Angeles
                             and professor of history at Queen of Angels Seminary, San Fernando, 
                                California
                            .
                  
                     1 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The La Bras Approach to the History of
                            the Diocese of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, LII (December, 1956),
                            369.
                  
                     2 John Tracy Ellis, "Teaching American Catholic History in
                            Our Schools," National Catholic Educational Association Bulletin,
                            XLVIII (May, 1952), 8.
                  
                     3 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Role of History in the Catholic
                            Liberal College," The Catholic Educational Review, XLVIII
                            (October, 1950), 515. This article also appeared in the Bulletin of the
                            Educational Conference of the Priests of the Holy Cross, XVIII (May, 1951), 22-29.
               
                    
                    
                  Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C Courtesy Francis J. Weber
               
                     the past,1 McAvoy regards the desire to
                    philosophize inimical to historical understanding and exposition and "a fundamental cause
                    of American Catholic failure not only in the field of history but in most of the fields of the
                    liberal arts."5 The tenor of his own writing veers away from
                    generalizations, which he considers valid only if founded "in the facts of the past and not
                    imposed from without."6
            
            The cultural enrichment that a broad knowledge of history in a pluralistic society gives to priests
                    is extremely profitable; and in this vein, McAvoy notes, few studies offer a safer antidote for any
                    preconceived notion of economic determinism regarding the theory of man.7 The
                    Notre Dame historian has long advocated a deeper appreciation of history's place in
                    seminary programs, pointing out that "if the Catholic clergyman is to function properly as
                    pastor and teacher he must not be dependent upon the weekly pictorial magazines or the partisan
                    press for his information about the past."8
            
            As guardian now for almost four decades of the historical collections at Notre Dame, Father McAvoy
                    has repeatedly reminded his confreres about the advantages of becoming more thoroughly
                    manuscript-conscious. By calling attention to the "need for a concerted effort by those who
                    appreciate these personal, family, society, and group records to see that they are
                        preserved,"9 McAvoy has placed new emphasis on the scientific
                    techniques for eliminating myth from fact that grows out of carefully investigating the records of
                    man's achievements.19
            
            Researchers have always been welcome at 
                        South Bend
                    . For tnose unable personally to journey to Notre Dame, McAvoy has published excerpts
                    from some of the most important of the university's holdings. In 1933 he edited a number of
                    "The War Letters of Father Peter Paul Cooney of the Congregation of the Holy
                    Cross" from the unpublished correspondence and service records of Catholic chaplains in the 
                        Union
                     and Confederate armies.11 Another 
                  
                     4 Thomas T. McAvoy, "American Catholics: Tradition and
                            Controversy," Thought, XXXV (Winter, 1960), 583. Father
                            McAvoy's article was republished as "American Catholics: History of a
                            Minority," Catholic Mind, LIX (March-April, 1961), 125-34.
                  
                     5 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Cult of Philosophism," The Catholic Educational Review, LVIII (December, 1960), 595.
                  
                     6 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The American Priest Discovers American
                            History," American Ecclesiastical Review, CXXXI (September,
                            1954), 181.
                  
                     7 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Image of the Catholic College
                            Graduate of 1961," The Catholic Educational Review, LIX
                            (November, 1961), 508.
                  
                     8 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Study of History and Clerical
                            Education," American Ecclesiastical Review, CXXVII (July, 1952),
                            19.
                  
                     9 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Manuscript Collections among American
                            Catholics," Catholic Historical Review, XXXVII (October, 1951),
                            284.
                  
                     10 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Fact versus Abstractions: A
                            Rejoinder," The Catholic Educational Review, XLIX (April, 1951),
                            257-59.
                  
                     11 Thomas T. McAvoy (ed.), "The War Letters of Father Peter
                            Paul Cooney of the Congregation of the Holy Cross," Records of the
                                American Catholic Historical Society, XLIV (March, 1933), 47-69; ibid., XLIV (June, 1933), 151-69; and ibid., XLIV (September, 1933),
                            200-37. Just a year earlier McAvoy published a biographical study of the chaplain of
                            Indiana's Irish Regiment, the Thirty-fifth Infantry. See Thomas T. McAvoy (ed.),
                            "Peter Paul Cooney," The Journal of the American Irish
                                Historical Society, XXX (January, 1932), 97-102.
               
                     fascinating item reproduced from documents in the archives of
                    the University of Notre Dame is "Brownson's Ontologism," which is based
                    on an exchange of letters between the famous English apologist and Father Henry S. McMurdie
                    concerning man's cognitive ability to know the Supreme Being.12
                    "Bishop Bruté's Report to 
                        Rome
                     in 1836," a valuable combination of theoretical ideas and practical missionary
                    experience on the condition of the Catholic church in the United States, was published by McAvoy as
                    an example of the value he places on contemporary observations. McAvoy claims, however, that such
                    historical documents, must always be evaluated in light of "the competence of the observer
                    and his intention to give the benefit of his knowledge" to others.13
            
            Notre Dame's archivist has no hesitation in proclaiming that "all research that
                    does not lead ultimately to a greater knowledge of the Divine plan has lost its true
                        purpose."14 This attitude has motivated the publishing of such
                    ecclesiastically important documents as "Bishop Flaget's Pastoral to the People of 
                        Detroit
                    ," which remains among the more interesting statements made by a member of the
                    American hierarchy.15
            
            McAvoy described the historical background of the archives at Notre Dame, with the 500,000 items
                    gathered prior to 1951, in a survey on "Manuscript Collections Among American
                        Catholics"16 in 1951. To the dedicated researcher history without
                    documents is simply rhetoric;17 and as the country's leading Catholic
                    archivist, Father McAvoy has tirelessly added to the university's holdings over the past
                    quarter century. In 1961 he personally filmed thousands of items in the 
                        Paris
                     and Lyons offices of the Société de la Propagation de la Foi and
                    in 
                        Rome
                    's Sacred Congregation of Propaganda Fide.18 The
                    acquisition of this extensive microfilm collection is surely McAvoy's greatest contribution
                    to the archives at Notre Dame and, possibly, to United States Catholic scholarship in general.
                    Making this valuable series of letters from American missionaries accessible to interpretative
                    historians may eventually reshape much of the over-all thinking about the church's
                    development on the national scene.
            
               
                  12 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Brownson's Ontologism,"
                            Catholic Historical Review, XXVIII (October, 1942), 376-81. McAvoy
                        subsequently explained how the great political theorist changed his notion of the role played by
                        the Catholic church in America with the passage of time. See Thomas T. McAvoy, "Orestes
                        A. Brownson and American History," Catholic Historical Review, XL
                        (October, 1954), 257-68.
               
                  13 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Bishop Brute's Report to 
                            Rome
                         in 1836," ibid., XXIX (July, 1943), 177.
               
                  14 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Apostolate of Research," Ave
                        Maria, LXXIII (January 20, 1951), 71.
               
                  15 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Bishop Flaget's Pastoral to the
                        People of 
                            Detroit
                        ," Catholic Historical Review, XXX (April, 1944), 28-40.
               
                  16 McAvoy, "Manuscript Collections among American
                        Catholics," 281-95.
               
                  17 McAvoy, "The Study of History and Clerical
                        Education," 22.
               
                  18 For the interesting background of this program, see Thomas T. McAvoy,
                        "Catholic Archives and Manuscript Collections," The American
                            Archivist, XXIV (October, 1961), 409-14.
            
            
            Father McAvoy has exhibited special competence in writing about historical developments in the
                    American midwest. His doctoral dissertation, published under the title The Catholic
                        Church in Indiana, 1789-1834,19 wove together "a very readable
                    narrative of the Church's work in Indiana,"20 depicting as it
                    did the transition between the French missions and diocesan organization. He returned to a more
                    localized aspect of this subject in a lecture given thirteen years later and subsequently published
                    as The History of the Catholic Church in the 
                            South Bend
                         Area. A paper which McAvoy read at the meeting of the Mississippi
                        Valley Historical Association in April of 1946 appeared in print as "The
                    Abbé Rivet at 
                        Vincennes
                    ." A contrast between the English and French frontiers forms the central theme
                    of his work on "The Old French Frontier in the Central Great Lakes Region," a
                    study which included Cadillac's description of Point Saint Ignace on the Mackinac
                        Straits.21
            
            Quite naturally, the University of Notre Dame figures prominently in McAvoy's writings. His
                    first such article dealt extensively with Father Stephen Badin, a pioneer Holy Cross priest, who
                    "in many ways typifies the transition period in the history of the Catholic missions in the
                    west …," being as he was a Canadian cleric working as the first missionary from 
                        Baltimore
                     on a whole new frontier.22 In 1953 McAvoy published a personal
                    evaluation of Father John F. O' Hara in light of his work at 
                        South Bend
                    . This study was later expanded into a full-length biography, Father
                        O'Hara of Notre Dame: The Cardinal Archbishop of 
                            Philadelphia
                        
               .23 The pre-O'Hara years at Notre Dame received
                    attention too as did the magazine Ave Maria, which observed the centennial of its
                    establishment at the university in 1965.24
            
            On the national level it was his concern about "the lack of balanced textbooks and the bias
                    of those who are rushing in to take care of the job"25 that occasioned
                    McAvoy's collaboration with four other scholars in A History of the United
                        States, a widely-used college text.26 McAvoy also edited a 
                  
                     19 Thomas T. McAvoy, The Catholic Church in Indiana,
                            1789-1834 (
                                New York
                            , 1940).
                  
                     20 See book review by Fintan G. Walker, Catholic
                                Historical Review, XXVII (April, 1941), 92.
                  
                     21 Thomas T. McAvoy, The History of the Catholic Church
                                in the 
                                    South Bend
                                 Area (
                                South Bend
                            , 1953); Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Abbe Rivet at 
                                Vincennes
                            ," Mid-America: An Historical Quarterly, XXIX
                            (January, 1947), 24-33; Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Old French Frontier in the Central
                            Great Lakes Region," Records of the American Catholic Historical
                                Society, LXV (December, 1954), 230-39.
                  
                     22 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Father Badin Gomes to Notre
                            Dame," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX (March, 1933), 7-16.
                  
                     23 Thomas T. McAvoy, "John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., and
                            Notre Dame," Records of the American Catholic Historical Society,
                            LXIV (March, 1953), 3-21; Thomas T. McAvoy, Father O'Hara of Notre
                                Dame: The Cardinal Archbishop of 
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                      (Notre Dame, Ind., 1967).
                  
                     24 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Notre Dame 1919-1922: The Bums
                            Revolution," The Review of Politics, XXV (October, 1963), 431-50;
                            Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Ave Maria After 100 Years," Ave Maria, CI (May 1, 1965), 6-9, 21.
                  
                     25 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The American Clergy and
                            History," Ave Maria, LVIII (September 25, 1953), 391.
                  
                     26 Aaron I. Abell et al., A History of the United
                            States (
                                New York
                            , 1951).
               
                     collection of essays, Roman Catholicism and the
                        American Way of Life, in 1960 and the following year published his treatise, "What
                    Is the Midwestern Mind?" as one of a series gathered under the title Midwest:
                        Myth or Reality?" Possibly Father McAvoy's three most outstanding survey
                    articles are his essays on "The Catholic Church in the United States Between Two
                    Wars," "The Catholic Church in the United States," and "This
                    American Catholicism."28
            
            Though his historical interests have generally been confined to Catholic areas, McAvoy is a respected
                    authority in the secular field. His article, "Roosevelt: A Modern 
                        Jefferson
                    ," was widely hailed for its keen observation that "what is common to
                    both and what is peculiarly American is the fact that despite superficial changes each made more
                    secure the established American tradition of political democracy."29
                    Perhaps McAvoy's willingness to delve into the nation's strictly secular history
                    grew out of his conviction that "the reading of official documents and the study of the
                    lives of our American leaders offer sound proofs that recent secularist and anti-religious attacks
                    on American institutions are contrary to the American tradition."30
            
            The McAvoy prognosis is an optimistic one, for he is convinced that "American Catholicism is
                    just coming of age, forming a spirit of its own, with a tradition of its own and facing problems
                    that do not exist anywhere else in the Western World."31 He is quick to
                    point out, however, the successes of the past, noting that 
                        the emergence of the Catholic layman in the United States which has been heralded so
                            frequently since the opening of the Second Vatican Council has tended to do a grave
                            injustice to the American Catholic laymen of earlier generations…. The number of
                            prominent Catholic laymen and laywomen of the nineteenth century is large as can be seen in
                            the mere listing of the galaxy that participated in the two lay Catholic Congresses in 
                                Baltimore
                             in 1889 and 
                                Chicago
                             in 1893.32
                  
                    
            
            Father McAvoy contends that in most of the historical accounts of the Catholic body in the United
                    States the cultural composition of the group has generally been misunderstood.33
                    It is perhaps this contention which accounts 
                  
                     27 Thomas T. McAvoy (ed.), Roman Catholicism and the
                                American Way of Life (Notre Dame, Ind., 1960); Thomas T. McAvoy et
                                al., Midwest: Myth or Reality? (Notre Dame, Ind., 1961), 53-72.
                  
                     28 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Catholic Church in the United
                            States Between Two Wars," The Review of Politics, IV (October,
                            1942), 409-31; Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Catholic Church in the United
                            States," in Waldemar Gurian and M. A. Fitzsimons (eds.), The Catholic
                                Church in World Affairs (Notre Dame, Ind., 1953), 358-76; Thomas T. McAvoy,
                            "This American Catholicism," The Catholic World, CXC
                            (November, 1959), 117-23.
                  
                     29 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Roosevelt: A Modern 
                                Jefferson
                            ," The Review of Politics, VII (July, 1945), 279.
                  
                     30 McAvoy, "The Study of History and Clerical
                            Education," 21.
                  
                     31 Thomas T. McAvoy, "American Catholicism and World
                            Catholicism," The Review of Politics, XXVIII (July, 1966), 388.
                  
                     32 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Public Schools vs. Catholic Schools and
                            James McMasters," ibid., XXVIII (January, 1966), 19.
                  
                     33 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Formation of the Catholic Minority
                            in the United States, 1820-1860," ibid., X (January, 1948),
                        15.
               
                     for his interest in the elements that have created the present
                    Catholicity patterns of the nation.34 A goodly portion of his writing has
                    centered on the history of the relations between the Catholic minority and the dominant culture of
                    the country. While he admits a proportionate lack of Catholic influence on the national level,
                    McAvoy has criticized the bitter accusations made against the church's leadership as
                    "mostly cries of anguish and definitely not intelligent attempts to analyze the real
                    position of the Catholic minority with a view to the better use of its meager
                        resources."35
            
            In his many writings the Notre Dame historian has traced the Catholic minority through the various
                    stages of its growth in American society. He has demonstrated that the essential characteristics of
                    this religious group were established during the thirty years between John Carroll's
                    arrival from England as first bishop and Ambrose Marechal's return from 
                        Rome
                     in 1821.36 In evaluating these patterns he has relied on the
                    so-called "Le Bras Method," which endeavors to work out an analytical formula for
                    the religious activities of a people in any given period of their history based on the contemporary
                    social, political, and economic factors involved.37
            
            One interesting phenomenon that stands out clearly in McAvoy's treatises is the freedom
                    discernible among Catholics in the United States. The American hierarchy, for example, is seen to be
                    freer and more self-sustained that any other hierarchy in the English-speaking world.38 Diversity is another unexpected characteristic. McAvoy shows that "if there is
                    one note that is forever absent in the story of Catholicity in the United States it is unity in
                    either political or social activities."39 If there is a Catholic vote,
                    it is only such in the sense that a good Catholic should always seek justice and public honesty in
                    every phase of American government and vote accordingly.40 The Notre Dame
                    historian does not overstate his position when he affirms that "in the Catholic Church in
                    the United States one can detect with differences of proportion, almost all the elements which go to
                    make up this great democracy of ours."41 The divergent opinions among
                    Catholics and between themselves and their neighbors about politics and business and social
                    positions are just part of the American way of life which would be suppressed only in a totalitarian
                        state.42
            
            
               
                  34 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Catholic Minority in Early 
                            Pittsburgh
                        ," Records of the American Catholic Historical Society,
                        LXXII (September-December, 1961), 67.
               
                  35 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Anguish of the Catholic
                        Minority," American Ecclesiastical Review, CXXI (November, 1949),
                        382.
               
                  36 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Catholic Minority in the United States,
                        1789-1821," Historical Records and Studies, XXXIX-XL (1952), 50.
               
                  37 McAvoy, "The Le Bras Approach," 370.
               
                  38 McAvoy, "The Catholic Minority in the United States,"
                        33.
               
                  39 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Background of American Catholic
                        Unity," American Ecclesiastical Review, CLV (December, 1966), 384.
               
                  40 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Where is the Catholic Vote?" Ave Maria, LXXXIII (June 16, 1956), 16.
               
                  41 McAvoy, "The Catholic Church in the United States Between Two
                        Wars," 409.
               
                  42 Thomas T. McAvoy, "American Catholics and the Second World
                        War," The Review of Politics, VI (April, 1944), 150.
            
            
            Father McAvoy regrets that Catholics of the last century failed to heed the advice of John Lancaster
                    Spalding about the proper development of the Catholic minority and especially about
                    Spalding's concept of the nature and work of truly intellectual endeavors. Had the ideas of
                    the Bishop of Peoria been accepted, "the Catholic answer to the great social problems of
                    the age would be more clearly defined in American literature and Catholic higher education would be
                    far better equipped to withstand the materialistic pragmatism which is eating away at the very
                    essence of true humanism in American life."43
            
            As an expert in the American phase of Catholic development, McAvoy has noted that there has never
                    been a real heresy during the three centuries and more of Catholic life within the boundaries of the
                    present United States.44 There have been "phantom heresies,"
                    however, and the shrewd observer can easily see how certain tendencies in the American Catholicism
                    of the 1890's were wrongly rationalized by Europeans into a New World brand of Modernism.
                    McAvoy has long considered this phenomenon one of the most interesting in all of American Catholic
                    history. According to him, there were no theological overtones in the cultural conflict between
                    "Americanism Reviewed by Abbe Felix Klein."45 Then, in 1957,
                    he published insofar as the conservative groups were trying to accuse the Americanizing groups of
                    the condemned liberal Catholicism of the Syllabus of Pope Pius IX."46
                    His essay, "Americanism, Fact and Fiction," gives "in an admirable way
                    the general background of the conflicting personalities and the incidents which occasioned most of
                    the troubles. It also treats of the European aspects that were expressed in the newspaper
                    controversies in France and Italy" and the theological and political productions that were
                    mainly responsible for the ultimate declaration of Pope Leo XIII.47
            
            McAvoy's views were restated in an excellent, concise outline form in "Americanism
                    Revised by Abbé Felix Klein."48 Then, in 1957, he published
                    the standard reference work on the subject, The Great Crisis in American Catholic
                        History, 1895-1900.49 This book had the honor of being selected for
                    inclusion in the White House Library.
            
               
                  43 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Bishop John Lancaster Spalding and the
                        Catholic Minority (1877-1908)," ibid., XII (January, 1950), 19.
                        Father McAvoy's article was republished in M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, and
                        Frank O'Malley (eds.), The Image of Man (Notre Dame, Ind., 1959),
                        392-406.
               
                  44 McAvoy, "The Formation of the Catholic Minority in the United
                        States," 13.
               
                  45 Quoted in Walter Romig, The Book of Catholic Authors
                        (6th series, Grosse Point, Mich., n.d.), 261.
               
                  46 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Catholic Minority after the Americanist
                        Controversy, 1899-1917: A Survey," The Review of Politics, XXI
                        (January, 1959), 55.
               
                  47 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Americanism, Fact and Fiction,"
                            Catholic Historical Review, XXXI (July, 1945), 133-53; Peter E. Hogan,
                        S.S.J., The Catholic University of America, 1896-1903 (
                            Washington
                        , 1949), 138n.
               
                  48 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Americanism Reviewed by Abbé
                        Felix Klein," American Ecclesiastical Review, CXXII (May, 1950),
                        355-63.
               
                  49 Thomas T. McAvoy, The Great Crisis in American Catholic
                            History, 1895-1900 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1957). The work was reissued in paperback form as The Americanist
                            Heresy in Roman Catholicism, 1895-1900 (Notre Dame, Ind., 1963).
            
            
            After World War II, McAvoy noticed some of the misunderstandings condemned by Leo XIII again in
                        evidence.50 This time, he noted, a "false Americanism is offered as
                    an improvement of Catholicism in the United States by those who do not seem to understand the
                    reasons for its present prosperity."51 This movement McAvoy decried,
                    reminding his readers that the tendency for Europeans to misjudge American Catholicism had always
                    existed and need not be given any serious consideration. Perhaps the most unfortunate result of the
                    whole Americanism issue was the sad effect it had on historical writing, for as Father McAvoy says,
                    "There has been a too great reluctance to discuss the accomplishments of those energetic
                    leaders of Catholicism at the turn of the century, whose zeal led them into the controversy but did
                    not keep them from working tirelessly in the service of the Church in America."52
            
            To the dismay of current educators, Father McAvoy points out that nearly every phase of present-day
                    arguments about the Catholic school was discussed in the period between 1870 and 1900. Far from
                    being an episcopal "imposition," the noted historian recalls that the Instruction
                    of 1875 establishing Catholic schools at the parish level was championed by the laity who were
                    unwilling to accept the more modest proposals of the nation's hierarchy.53
            
            As an educator himself, McAvoy recognizes the need for certain changes in the contemporary Catholic
                    approach to learning, though he is wont to suspect that "the basic reason for the lack of
                    intellectual leaders among American Catholics is closely connected with a too great attachment of
                    Catholic families to this world's comforts."54 Considering the
                    cultural background of worldly poverty and limited resources available to Catholics, McAvoy feels
                    that Catholic higher education has not failed.55 In his own analysis of the
                    shortcomings discernible in the field, he observes that the seminary curriculum, which originally
                    formed the basis of Catholic collegiate courses, failed to take properly into consideration that
                    most of the students had chosen secular professions.
            If there is a failure on the part of Thomistic philosophy to meet current problems, then McAvoy
                    attributes that failure to the philosophers themselves, not to Scholasticism. He goes a step further
                    by suggesting that "the historian of Catholic education in the United States has some
                    justification for questioning the dominance of philosophers in our Catholic colleges and 
                  
                     50 For McAvoy's assessment of this pontiff, see Thomas T.
                            McAvoy, "Leo XIII and America," in Edward T. Gargan (ed.), Leo XIII and the Modern World (
                                New York
                            , 1961), 157-78; and Thomas T. McAvoy, "Pope Leo XIII's
                            Condemnation of Pragmatism," Ave Maria, LXXI (June 3, 1950),
                            679-81.
                  
                     51 Thomas T. McAvoy, "New Traces of False
                            Americanism," Ave Maria, LXIII (January 26, 1946), 103.
                  
                     52 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Americanism and Frontier
                            Catholicism," The Review of Politics, V (July, 1943), 301.
                  
                     53 McAvoy, "Public Schools vs. Catholic Schools and James
                            McMasters," 20.
                  
                     54 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Do American Catholics Need
                            Reform?" Ave Maria, LXXXVII (May 31, 1958), 6.
                  
                     55 McAvoy, "The Anguish of the Catholic Minority,"
                            383.
               
                     universities," since these scholars have generally
                    failed to create a living, relevant, and influential Catholic philosophy.56
            
            McAvoy concedes that there are no shortcuts to the educational process. His years in the classroom
                    have convinced him that "true learning seldom appeals directly to the
                        emotions."57 Rather, he has said, education is the work of the
                    student "and there is no magical book or teacher who can change the dullard or slothful
                    youth into a wise and learned youth!"58
            
            In a survey article such as this it is impossible to more than mention McAvoy's more
                    prominent works. This outstanding scholar's prodigious writings, dating from his teen years
                    when he wrote extensively for the 
                        Tipton
                    
                    Times, encompass now a half century's collection of outstanding literary and
                        historical productions. He has contributed learned articles to the Encyclopedia of Religion, the Dictionary of American Biography, the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, Grolier's Encyclopedia, the Catholic Encyclopedia, the Catholic Encyclopedia
                        for School and Home, and the Dictionnaire D'Histoire et de Geographie
                    Ecclesiastiques. His concise book reviews have appeared in dozens of journals, to say nothing
                    of the many articles carried under his by-line in Notre Dame, Our Sunday Visitor,
                    and other Catholic publications.
            What the silvery-haired Holy Cross priest once wrote about the ideal historian surely applies to
                    himself: "To sift evidence patiently, to avoid the clamor of the daily press for flashy
                    items, to bring to one's writings the weight of learning and skill, require talent and
                    labor in every step of the process."59
            
            
               
                  56 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Philosophers and American Catholic
                        Education," The Catholic Educational Review, XLVII (November, 1949),
                        583.
               
                  57 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Role of the Good Teacher," ibid., LVII (October, 1959), 477.
               
                  58 Thomas T. McAvoy, "The Myth of the Great Teacher,"
                            ibid., LVI (September, 1958), 361.
               
                  59 McAvoy, "The American Clergy and History,"
                    394.
            
         
         
         
            George W. Julian: Radical Land Reformer
            
                    James L. Roark
                    ∗
                
            While still a young man George 
                        Washington
                     Julian pledged himself to the task of destroying all "oppression and
                    inequality," whether it took the "undisguised form of chattel slavery, or that
                    organized cupidity which makes labor the helpless drudge of capital, or that system of agricultural
                    serfdom which rests upon the unrestricted monopoly of the soil."1 For
                    nearly half a century—from the 1840's to the 1890's—this
                    Hoosier reformer labored to make freedom and opportunity for the individual a reality in America.
                    Slaveholders, capitalists, and land monopolists felt the lash of his fiery, vituperative tongue.
                    Today, unfortunately, Julian is remembered almost exclusively as a courageous antislavery crusader.
                    Joining the Free Soil forces in 1848 and the Republican party in 1854, he was certainly one of the
                    foremost abolitionists of the nineteenth century. But Julian was also a significant and influential
                    land reformer to whom the American homesteader was much indebted. The Hoosier's place in
                    history should rest as much on his fight against land speculation, land grants to railroads,
                    military land bounties, and cash sales of federal land as on his role as an abolitionist.
                    Julian's interest in public land policy began in the 1840's, almost as early as
                    his antislavery agitation, and continued until his death in 1899.2 He
                    accomplished his most significant work, however, during the period he served as congressman from
                    Indiana's "Burnt District" to the House of Representatives.3 During those twelve years, 1849–1851 and 1861–1871, Julian greatly
                    influenced federal land policy.
            Julian's career as reformer can best be understood as the working out of a creed he adopted
                    in 1843 from William Ellery Channing. In a volume of Channing's essays Julian found this
                    thought: "The grand doctrine that every human being should have the means of self-culture,
                    of progress in knowledge and virtue, of health, comfort, and happiness, of exercising the powers and
                    effections of a man,—this is slowly taking its place as the highest social
                    truth." Because Channing so clearly and concisely stated the very thoughts that whirled
                    through his own mind, Julian immediately committed 
                  
                     ∗ James L. Roark is a graduate student in the history
                            department, 
                                Stanford
                             University, 
                        Stanford, California
                     .
                  
                     1 George W. Julian, "A Search After Truth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXII (September, 1936), 253; Grace Julian
                            Clarke, George W. Julian (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 65.
                  
                     2 Patrick W. Riddleberger, George 
                                    Washington
                                 Julian: Radical Republican (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XLV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 41, 76, 187–88; Paul W. Gates, "The Homestead Law
                            in an Incongruous Land System," American Historical Review, XLI
                            (July, 1936), 677–81.
                  
                     3 Grace Julian Clarke believed that the term "Burnt
                            District" might have been coined in 1841 by Andrew Kennedy, a Democrat, when he
                            defeated, or "burned," his Whig rival in the congressional election. Grace
                            Julian Clarke, "The Burnt District," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXVII (June, 1931), 119–24.
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE WASHINGTON JULIAN Reproduced from Patrick W. Riddleberger, George 
                                    Washington
                                 Julian, Radical Republican (
                                Indianapolis
                            : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1966).
               
                     the passage to memory.4 It became his vision
                    of the good society toward which he would labor.
            Channing, however, offered Julian more than a vision; he also presented a resolution to an extremely
                    vexing problem. While still a boy Julian began to question the 
                        Quaker
                     faith of his parents. His search for religious truth took him from 
                        Quaker
                     to Unitarian to free thinker; but rather than peace, his quest brought only confusion
                    and depression. When he began working for the cause of abolition and land reform, as part of his
                    attempt to make his vision a reality, he very happily discovered that "just in
                    proportion" as he gave his "heart unselfishly to the work [of reform], the
                    doctrinal doubts and anxieties that had so troubled me faded away…." He quickly
                    concluded that for him the "only safe 'plan of salvation' is that of
                    personal duty and endeavor."5 Never confident that his faith would
                    assure salvation, Julian turned to a doctrine of hard work for good causes to accomplish the same
                    objective. The need for personal strength and tranquility of mind continued to generate reform
                    activity for the rest of Julian's life.
            To less dedicated people reformers sometimes seem arrogant, humorless, pugnacious, and
                    holier-than-thou. Julian's unshakable belief in the righteousness of his objectives and the
                    purity of his own motives certainly made him appear this way to some of the men who wrote about him
                    at his death.6 "With truth on my side," Julian boasted,
                    "I was delighted to find myself perfectly able, single-handed, to fight my
                        battle…."7 His broad Utopian vision made politics appear
                    a moral struggle; therefore, as a politician his job was to accomplish "moral and political
                        regeneration."8 Years after his congressional career had ended he
                    could proudly state, "Step by step I saw my constituents march up to my
                        position."9 Self-righteous, impatient, and intense, he was also an
                    able, earnest, and sincere man who worked with indefatigable ardor to create a better and more just
                    society.
            Julian never had to fear becoming a radical without a cause, for mid- nineteenth century America
                    abounded with causes for social missionaries. One of the oldest was land reform. Roy M. Robbins has
                    described the history of the national land system as basically a struggle between two forces,
                    speculation and squatterism, the man of wealth and the poor man. From the early days of the republic
                    land reformers raised their voices in support of the squatter, but they were often drowned out by
                    the more potent spokesmen of the speculator. Generally, the speculator's position was
                    adopted by 
                  
                     4 Julian, "A Search After Truth," 253.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 254-57; Clarke, George W. Julian, 41-42, 69-73.
                  
                     6 The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 8, 1899, described Julian as "impatient of
                            obstruction, conscious of the loftiness of his desires, dwelling ever in
                            scorn…." The 
                                Springfield
                            
                            Republican, July 8, 1899, said he was "bitter" because
                            things did not get better quickly enough. Quoted in Clarke, George W.
                            Julian, 424-27.
                  
                     7 George W. Julian, Political Recollections, 1840 to
                            1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 67.
                  
                     8 George Julian to [not legible], October 24, 1857, Giddings-Julian
                            Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            .
                  
                     9 Julian, Political Recollections, 322.
               
                     the more thickly settled, capitalistic part of the country; the
                    East, and the squatter's viewpoint was accepted by the land-hungry pioneers of the
                        frontier.10
            
            Julian was born in 1817 on the Indiana frontier and reared near the pioneer community of 
                        Centerville
                    , located on the national road midway between the two forks of the Whitewater
                        River. His own family could have benefited from a homestead policy had it been in
                    effect in 1823. In that year, when Julian was only six, his father died. His mother scraped together
                    what was left of the family money to purchase a fifty-acre farm.11 Julian
                    remembered these lean years as a "struggle for survival."12 Land reform was a
                    familiar subject to people in the 
                        Centerville
                     area. The local paper frequently carried articles supporting the cause and favoring the
                    adoption of a homestead law.13 The persuasive arguments of the French political
                    economist, Jean- Baptiste Say, were also familiar to Julian. In his Political
                    Economy Say showed that unused land was valueless, but land that was farmed benefited both the
                    individual farmer and the nation as a whole.14
            
            Individual ownership of land became the crux of Julian's own maturing plan for universal
                    human freedom. Through his reading and personal experience he came to believe that no man could be
                    truly free as long as he had to till another man's soil. Land ownership was the traditional
                    trademark of American democracy, and the fact that the country was entering a new industrial era did
                    not alter Julian's concepts. It made him more adamant in his convictions. Like Thomas 
                        Jefferson
                    , he had a horror of the effects of the industrial revolution on America.15 The Hoosier declared that industry "tends to aggregate our people in towns and
                    cities, and render them mere consumers, instead of dispersing them over our territory, and tempting
                    them to become the owners of land and the creators of wealth." Moreover, it fostered
                    "the taste for artificial life and the excitements to be found in great centers of
                    populations, instead of holding up the truth that 'God made the country,' and
                    intended it to be peopled and enjoyed." Julian dreamed of men with their families, working
                    for themselves on their own farms, depending neither on capital nor slaves, developing those
                    "characteristics called virtues."16
            
            
               
                  10 Roy M. Robbins, Our Landed Heritage: The Public Domain,
                            1776-1936 (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1942), 9-10, 34; Fred A. Shannon, The Farmer's Last
                            Frontier: Agriculture, 1860-1897 (Economic History of the United States), Vol. V; 
                            New York
                        , 1945), 73-75; St. George L. Sioussat, "Andrew 
                            Johnson
                         and the Early Phases of the Homestead Bill," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, V (December, 1918),
                        254-55.
               
                  11 Clarke, George W. Julian, 21, 29-31, 58.
               
                  12 George S. Cottman, "Mr. Julian's
                        Autobiography," Indiana Magazine of History, II (June, 1906), 70.
               
                  13 Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 76-77.
               
                  14 Clarke, George W. Julian, 58; Jean-Baptiste Say, A Treatise on Political Economy; or the Production, Distribution, and Consumption
                            of Wealth (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1859), 292-97, 359-65.
               
                  15 LaWanda Cox, "The Promise of Land for the Freedmen,"
                            
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XLV (December,
                        1958), 426-27; Morton and Lucia White, The Intellectual Versus the City: From
                            Thomas 
                                Jefferson
                             to Frank Lloyd Wright (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962), 12-29.
               
                  16 George W. Julian, "Our Land Policy," Atlantic
                        Monthly, XLIII (1879), 336-38; Congressional Globe, 40 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                    1716.
            
            
            Also like 
                        Jefferson
                    , Julian was concerned with the political implications of the nation's land
                    system. In Julian's mind the impact of the land policy on the nation's development
                    could not be overstated. "Laws regulating the ownership and disposition of landed
                    property," he said, "not only affect the well-being but frequently the destiny of
                    a people." The land system, in fact, directly determined the political system of a country.
                    Real political democracy depended on democratic land holdings.17 If the
                    nation's democratic institutions were to be preserved, the United States needed
                    "small farms, thrifty tillage, compact settlements, free schools, and equality of political
                    rights," and not "large estates, slovenly agriculture, widely-scattered
                    settlements, popular ignorance, and a pampered aristocracy lording over the people."18 Large landed estates, therefore, were antithetical to both economic and
                    political democracy. Like many men from the agrarian West, Julian adhered to a philosophy that would
                    not be appreciated by a new, rising breed of industrial capitalists.
            The idea that government should give land outright to actual settlers, surrendering entirely the
                    seeking of revenue, had been presented to Congress as early as 1814; but until Thomas Hart 
                        Benton
                     introduced his Graduation Bill in 1825, which provided for outright grants of refuse
                    lands, nothing approaching this idea received action by the national government. By the early
                    1850's, however, the West was almost completely won over to homesteading;19 and, as the expansionist and slavery issues temporarily slipped into the background after
                    the Compromise of 1850, new advocates of free land for the landless went into action. Andrew 
                        Johnson
                    , friend of the poor white class of the South, had previously introduced his cherished
                    homestead bill in Congress but had received no favorable action. In the short session of 1850-1851, 
                        Johnson
                     again introduced his bill, this time gaining the support of a freshman representative,
                    Free Soiler George W. Julian.20
            
            On January 29, 1851, the thirty-three-year-old "Burnt District" representative
                    delivered his first speech on the homestead measure. It is doubtful if 
                        Johnson
                     appreciated Julian's support, for the Hoosier crusader violated the spirit of
                    the Compromise of 1850, the "final settlement" of the slavery issue, by combining
                    with his advocacy of the homestead principle an out-and-out abolition argument. Julian told the
                    House that the homestead bill would make a "formidable barrier" against the
                    introduction of slavery 
                  
                     17 Julian, Political Recollections, 296-97.
                  
                     18
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 2249.
                  
                     19 Benjamin H. Hibbard, A History of the Public Land
                                Policies (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 350; Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, 92-111.
                  
                     20 Sioussat, "Andrew 
                                Johnson
                             and the Early Phases of the Homestead Bill," 254-60. Some of the
                            antislavery elements of both major parties bolted in 1848 to form the Free Soil party, which
                            was dedicated to keeping slavery from expanding into the territories. Antislavery sentiment
                            had long been strong in the "Burnt District," in part because of the large
                            population of Quakers. Julian, running as a Free Soiler, owed his election to the strong
                            antislavery forces in his district and to the votes of many Democrats, who entered no
                            candidate of their own. Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 45-50.
               
                     into the territories. Since it provided for farms of only 160
                    acres, and because slavery needed extensive estates to flourish, Julian explained that slavery could
                    never establish a foothold in the public lands under such a policy. The outspoken Hoosier was
                    convinced that the homestead principle offered far greater protection against slavery than Daniel
                    Webster's "ordinances of nature."21
            
            Julian did not advocate the homestead measure just because it was a handy and effective tool to use
                    against southern slavery. To him, it was a great humanitarian effort which fulfilled his dream that
                    every family would have the opportunity to earn a home on the public domain. Homes kept men from
                    crime and almshouses, he declared, and gave them a surrounding conducive to "virtue, to the
                    prosperity of the country, and to loyalty to its government and laws." Not only would the
                    homestead bill aid the poorer classes, he claimed, but all classes would benefit. In a plan somewhat
                    reminiscent of 
                        Clay
                    's American System, Julian contended that homesteads would create markets for
                    eastern manufacturers and produce foodstuffs for eastern cities. At the same time it would draw off
                    from urban centers surplus laborers who were the source of crime and poverty.
            He insisted, furthermore, that the government's coffers would not suffer by giving land away
                    rather than selling it. Instead of diminishing public revenue, the homestead bill would actually
                    increase it. Governmental revenues were chiefly derived from duties on imports, he explained; and
                    because home- steading would increase national production, the nation's exports would
                    increase. He predicted that the rise in exports would be matched by a corresponding rise in imports.
                    Thus, under the homestead principle, he said, "Humanity and the dollar will go
                        together."22 The homestead bill was more to Julian than an
                    antislavery measure or a humanitarian effort or an economic enterprise; it was a national panacea.
                    His coupling of free land with free soil, however, did not help the chances of the measure; and both
                    the Senate and the House failed to approve the homestead bill.
            More than a decade lapsed before Congress passed the Homestead Act. It was almost that long before
                    Julian returned to Congress. Defeated for reelection in 1851, he resumed his seat in Congress ten
                    years later, quickly becoming important in the radical Republican faction. Because of his hatred and
                    disgust for the institution of slavery, he returned to 
                        Washington
                     to wage a holy war to free the slaves. Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     on the other hand was not prepared to lead that crusade for freedom, at least not at
                    the expense of the 
                        Union
                    . Against 
                        Lincoln
                    's moderate policy Julian dedicated himself.23
            
            
               
                  21 Webster believed that slavery could never expand into the territories
                        because nature herself had forbidden it by unfavorable soil and climate. The discussion of
                        Julian's speech, in this and following paragraphs, is based on the Congressional Globe, 31 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix, 135-38; George W. Julian, Speeches on Political Questions (
                            New York
                        , 1872), 50-66.
               
                  22 Julian, Speeches on Political Questions, 64.
               
                  23 Julian, Political Recollections, 118, 181, 191-201;
                        Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 128, 154, 164-69; Julian, Speeches on Political Questions, 192-211.
            
            
            As long as slaves were chained to southern plantations, Julian's primary goal was the
                    extinction of Negro slavery. This crusade, however, did not preclude spirited work for land reform,
                    the emancipation of the American farmer. When Speaker Schuyler A. Golfax, in December, 1861, offered
                    him an appointment to the important House Committee on Public Lands, the Indiana representative
                    leaped at the chance. Reforming the "undemocratic" and
                    "monopolistic" land system had long been a "pet project";
                    indeed, it would become no less a missionary effort for the Indiana crusader than freeing the
                        slave.24
            
            Because of the overwhelming problems accompanying the outbreak of the Civil War, it was not until
                    early in 1862 that Congress concertedly attempted to deal with other questions. Just as the cries of
                    the emancipationists were reaching a shrill pitch, there arose a demand to implement other planks of
                    the Republican platform of 1860. That platform protested against, among other things, "any
                    sale or alienation to others of the public lands held by actual settlers," and against
                    "any view of the free-homestead policy which regards the settlers as paupers or suppliants
                    for public bounty…." In short, it demanded a "complete and satisfactory
                    homestead measure."25 Land appropriation by railroad companies,
                    combinations of capitalists, and individual speculators had reached a high point on the eve of 
                        Lincoln
                    's election; and Julian, shouting his fidelity to the Jeffersonian dream, waded
                    into the battle for the passage of a homestead act.26
            
            During the debate on this measure Justin Morrill, the vigorous 
                        Vermont
                     representative, voiced one of the major objections of its opponents. After first
                    stating that he favored the bill in principle., he asserted simply that the war made it inexpedient
                    to pass such a sweeping measure. Seeing a chance to enter the fray, Julian jumped to his feet to
                    rebuke Morrill. Even though the 
                        Vermont
                     representative did not explain or elaborate his objections, Julian proceeded to
                    castigate him for believing that vacant land had value or in any way aided the northern war effort.
                    Harking back to his theme of 1851, he advocated settlement as the best way for the public lands to
                    bring in revenue and fill the 
                        Union
                     treasury. This bill, Julian assured the House, would "promote the highest
                    interest of the soldier by conferring the greatest possible benefit on the country."27
            
            On May 20, 1862, President Lincoln signed the Homestead Act. At the time Julian was as joyful and as
                    sanguine as any of its supporters. "It was a magnificent triumph of freedom and free labor
                    over the slave power," he thundered, and "its final success is among the blessed
                    compensations of 
                  
                     24
                            Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 21; Julian, Political
                                Recollections, 236.
                  
                     25 Kirk H. Porter and Donald Bruce 
                                Johnson
                             (comps.), National Party Platforms, 1840-1964 (
                                Urbana
                            , 1966), 31-33.
                  
                     26 Paul W. Gates, The Farmer's Age: Agriculture,
                                1815-1860 (Economic History of the United States, Vol. III; 
                                New York
                            , 1960), 95.
                  
                     27
                            Congressional Globe, 37 Cong., 2 Sess., 136.
               
                     the bloody conflict in which we are now plunged."28 Within a few weeks the Hoosier began to see that the act left many holes
                    through which speculators and monopolists could squeeze. He then began his determined effort to plug
                    these holes. By 1883 events had forced Julian to admit that there were fatal mistakes in the bill.
                    The "half-way measure," he said grimly, furnished "a remarkable
                    commentary upon the boasted friendship of the Republican party for the landless poor."29
            
            In less than a month after Congress approved the Homestead Act, another plank of the Republican
                    platform was on the statute books. On July 1, 1862, Julian joined with his fellow congressmen to
                    incorporate the 
                        Union
                     Pacific Railroad Company, endowing it with 30,000,000 acres of public land, the most
                    liberal land grant in history. Within a few years Julian would become the most outspoken critic of
                    railroad land grants in Congress, but it was not until after the Civil War that he finally realized
                    the extent of this threat to the homestead principle. In 1862, in the heat of the war, he believed
                    that the nation's defense demanded that the 
                        Union
                     be tied together with the black steel ribbons, whatever the cost.30
            
            The settlers' watchdog, however, was not completely asleep; for when Morrill presented his
                    bill granting public lands to states and territories for the purpose of establishing agricultural
                    and mechanical colleges, Julian sprang to the settlers' defense. He branded the plan
                    "legalized plunder" which vitiated the homestead principle passed barely two weeks
                    earlier. The new bill provided that those states with no public lands in their borders would receive
                    shares of college scrip, or land office money, which could be sold. These grants, Julian declared,
                    would be nothing more than "monopolies" donated to states which would dispose of
                    them with only revenue in mind and without a second thought for the settler. What good would the
                    Homestead Act do, he queried, if the eastern states looted the West of its broad domain? He
                    prophesied that MorrilPs bill would not be successful in endowing colleges; for when the college
                    scrip flooded the market, its price would drop to a fraction of what the land was worth. Thus, in
                    the end, only the speculator would benefit.31 Few congressmen were impressed
                    with the Hoosier's reasoning, and on July 2, 1862, the bill became law. Eventually under
                    the Morrill Act nearly 11,000,000 acres—an area slightly less than half that of
                    Indiana—passed into the hands of the states, much of which in turn went to land
                    speculators. Scrip land sold at prices as low as fifty cents an acre, and as a result in many states
                    school funds were low.32
            
            
               
                  28 George W. Julian, Select Speeches of Hon. Geo. W. Julian
                            of Indiana (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1867), 19.
               
                  29 Julian, Political Recollections, 218.
               
                  30 Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, 207; Julian, Political Recollections, 217.
               
                  31
                        Congressional Globe, 40 Cong., 2 Sess., 1712-16.
               
                  32 Paul W. Gates, Agriculture and the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1965), 259-66; Shannon, The Farmer's Last Frontier,
                        273-75. A table of the administration of land granted to agricultural and mechanical colleges by
                        the act of 1862 can be found in Hibbard, Public Land Policies, 335-37.
            
            
            During the Civil War none of the bills passed concerning public land permitted the states in
                    rebellion to partake of any of the benefits. The seceded states received no grants of land for
                    railroad construction or for agricultural colleges, nor were they able to take advantage of the
                    Homestead Act.33 Rather than offering the areas in rebellion additional land,
                    some northern congressmen ached to appropriate existing southern holdings. Just before Congress
                    adjourned in the spring of 1862, Julian joined the radicals in passing the Second Confiscation
                        Act.34 As originally framed it demanded the confiscation of all property of
                    persons in rebellion against the United States. Before 
                        Lincoln
                     would sign the bill, he insisted that Congress approve a joint resolution which
                    softened the measure. The resolution declared that confiscation would not be retroactive and that
                    the forfeiture should not extend beyond the natural life of the owner.35
            
            Julian was furious and denounced 
                        Lincoln
                    's plan of limited confiscation as shortsighted and a disgusting
                    "anti-republican discrimination" just when "the nation was struggling for
                    its life against a rebellious aristocracy founded on the monopoly of land and ownership of
                    negroes." Unlike 
                        Lincoln
                    , he envisioned permanent confiscation of southern lands. Permanent
                    confiscation was, in fact, a necessary prerequisite to the plan which crystalized in
                    Julian's mind. His plan combined confiscation, homesteading, and military bounties. After
                    the rebels had forfeited all lands in the insurgent districts, Julian wanted the land divided into
                    free homesteads for men who had served in the military service or who had otherwise aided in putting
                    down the rebellion. Julian wanted Negro laborers specifically included as eligible. To make it a
                    genuine homestead bill instead of a pure land bounty, a residence of five years would be
                        required.36 When Congress reconvened in December, 1862, Julian began
                    hammering away at 
                        Lincoln
                    's confiscation restrictions.
            In 1863 during the debate on 
                        Lincoln
                    's suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, Julian gained the floor but did not
                    speak on the business before the House. Joshua Reed Giddings, in a January, 1863, letter to Julian,
                    had prodded, "Why don't you give us a speech that shall shake that old
                        capital?"37 Perhaps the Hoosier accepted his friend's
                    suggestion, for he gave his most vigorous and bitter speech yet. Reaffirming his view of the war as
                    a conflict against slavery, Julian reiterated the radicals' demand for a vigorous war
                    effort. 
                        Lincoln
                     had recently issued his Emancipation Proclamation; but Julian demanded action,
                    "instant, decisive, defiant action," that would give effect 
                  
                     33 Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, 209-10.
                  
                     34 The First Confiscation Act was limited to property actually used
                            for "insurrectionary purposes." George P. Sanger (ed.), Statutes at Large, Treaties, and Proclamations of the United States of America (
                                Boston
                            , 1863), XII, 319.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 589-92, 627; T. Harry Williams, 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                 and the Radicals (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1941), 163-66.
                  
                     36 Julian, Speeches on Political Questions, 212-28;
                            Julian, Political Recollections, 219-20.
                  
                     37 Joshua R. Giddings to George W. Julian, January 18, 1863,
                            Giddings-Julian Papers.
               
                    
                    Indiana Magazine of History to the proclamation of freedom. Outlining his program,
                    he called for the arming of slaves, confiscation of all property belonging to
                    traitors, and boldly revealing part of his new plan, the distribution of some southern plantation
                    land among the Negroes.38 The speech was primarily a broadside at 
                        Lincoln
                    's administration. Julian's mention of giving soldiers and Negroes
                    plantation land was brief, but it served notice of what would be one of the Hoosier
                    representative's main concerns for the remainder of the war.
            The appointment of Julian to the chairmanship of the Committee on Public Lands in December, 1863, was
                    the official event that marked the new era in his career. Happily he asserted that "it
                    opened a coveted field of labor" on which he "entered with zeal." The
                    chairmanship continued for eight years and gave him a decided advantage for presenting measures
                    bearing on the land question. He made the most of his position.39 Julian had
                    always emphasized the close relationship between the homestead principle and the destruction of
                    slavery. During the fifties he had preached that homesteading would render the plantation system
                    impossible on the public domain. With the outbreak of the war and the actual passage of the
                    Homestead Act, he had won the battle which he thought would save northern territories from slavery.
                    He was then able to ask, could not the homesteading of southern land effectively destroy the
                    plantation—the breeding place of slavery? He believed that only by drastically reforming
                    the whole land system of the South could the emancipated slave be truly and forever free.40
            
            Even while the Civil War raged, Julian made tremendous efforts in Congress to weld land reform and
                    reconstruction together. He contemplated the genuine emancipation of the slaves by breaking up once
                    and for all the large agricultural estates of the South, thereby destroying its landed aristocracy
                    and punishing it for its rebellion against the 
                        Union
                    . Thus, homesteading in the South would become a two-edged ax, chopping at both land
                    monopoly and the old slaveholding aristocracy. Unfortunately for Julian and his program, the Civil
                    War was, in part, a contest for supremacy between southern agricultural capitalists and northern
                    industrial capitalists. As long as the northern railroad, mining, and lumbering interests were
                    convinced that land legislation was a means of remolding and controlling the South, Julian received
                    powerful support and won some success. But when it came into conflict with those northern interests,
                    Julian found himself brushed aside. In the end he battled both northerners and southerners in his
                    attempt to reconstitute southern society.41
            
            
               
                  38
                        Congressional Globe, 37 Cong., 3 Sess., 1064-69; Julian, Select
                            Speeches, 10-18; Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 168-69.
               
                  39 Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 187-88; Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 18; Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 236-37; Clarke, George W. Julian, 252.
               
                  40 Julian, Speeches on Political Questions, 56-58;
                        Julian, Select Speeches, 19-21, 23.
               
                  41 Julian, Select Speeches, 24; Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 188; Shannon, The Farmer's Last
                            Frontier, 76; 
                            Henry
                         Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as Symbol and Myth (
                            New York
                        , 1950), 227; Paul W. Gates, "Federal Land Policy in the South,
                        1866-1888," The Journal of Southern History, VI (August, 1940), 303-
                        307; Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 716.
            
            
            On March 18, 1864, Julian presented to the House a bill which represented the culmination of his
                    ideas on homesteading confiscated southern lands.42 In its final form the bill
                    provided for eighty-acre tracts for soldiers, while other loyal persons, without regard for race or
                    color, could procure half that amount. "The bill is novel," the Hoosier admitted
                    in his accompanying speech, but the "civil war in which we are engaged is one of the
                    grandest novelties the world has ever seen."43 Julian declared that one
                    of Congress' greatest responsibilities was the protection of the Homestead Act. This act
                    was already endangered, he claimed, by those who insisted that the public lands would have to be
                    sold to pay the war debt. Julian explained that even more threatening were the lavish grants of land
                    to railroads, agricultural colleges, and female normal schools. Speculators were "cheating
                    the government out of their productive wealth, and the poor man out of the home which else might be
                    his at the end of the war." If Congress did not want the nation to return to the
                    "Jewish darkness of land speculators and public plunder," it had to pass an
                    immediate and effective remedy.44
            
            The cure Julian prescribed was his scheme of confiscating and homesteading. Millions of acres of
                    additional land would be made available to faithful soldiers and loyal landless poor. More
                    immigrants would be tempted to put "land to the plow and make it pay and produce."
                    The freedman's wistful dream of "forty acres and a mule" would be
                    fulfilled. This rebellion had been considered a "slaveholders'
                    rebellion," but, he declared, it was also a "landholders'
                    rebellion." Julian claimed that the slaveholders owned five- sixths of all the land in the
                    South while constituting only one-fifteenth of the population. The bill, therefore, sought no
                    sweeping confiscation of land, only restoration to the people of their "inalienable
                    rights." It would do no more than break up and distribute the vast land monopoly of the
                    South.
            The Hoosier reformer turned next to a consideration of the legality of his confiscation measure. The
                    act of rebellion, he asserted, was an act of "suicide," which meant that the
                    traitors had no constitutional rights. "For them the Constitution had ceased to
                    exist." He declared that the "honest refusal" of 
                        Lincoln
                     to allow Congress to touch the real estate of the rebels "was the saddest and
                    grandest mistake of his life."45 Julian pleaded with Congress to repeal
                    the joint resolution passed the previous year protecting rebel land. He explained to the House that
                    Lincoln had changed his mind about the right of Congress to confiscate the landed estates of rebels.
                    He did not elaborate his claim; but two decades later when he wrote his Recollections, Julian explained that one day while he was visiting the President, 
                        Lincoln
                    
                    
                  
                     42 The following discussion of Julian's presentation and
                            defense of his bill is based on the Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1
                            Sess., 1185-90; and Julian, Select Speeches, 19-22.
                  
                     43
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 1185.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 1186.
                  
                            45
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     remarked that when he had prepared his veto of the confiscation
                    bill, he had not examined the matter thoroughly and that after further reflection and study he
                    thought that he would then sign a bill striking at rebel property.48
            
            Whether or not Congress allowed rebel land to be appropriated, Julian continued, millions of acres in
                    the South would fall into its hands in other ways, such as military seizures and forfeitures for the
                    nonpayment of taxes. Congress, therefore, had to choose between two courses: either the land must be
                    placed under the jurisdiction of the government "in trust for the people," or it
                    would fall into the grasp of speculators. The rich lands of the South, Julian asserted,
                    "have been cursed by this evil [land monopoly] from the beginning; and without the
                    interposition of Congress the system will be continued and vitalized anew by falling into fresh
                        hands."47 If the "loyal millions" were to have
                    homes on the land, the government would have to guard them from the "remorseless exactions
                    of capital," and from the "pitiless rapacity for avarice." By thus
                    throwing down the gauntlet to northern capitalists, Julian courted and eventually won the enmity of
                    a most powerful interest. "Mr. Speaker," he said in conclusion, "nothing
                    can atone for the woes and sorrows of this war but the thorough reorganization of society in these
                    revolted States."48 Making perfectly clear the dual purpose of his
                    bill, he demanded that Congress see to it that the South was "studded over with small farms
                    and tilled by free men."49
            
            For the next two months Julian battled to get his bill through Congress. On May 11, 1864, he again
                    forced debate on the measure.50 Representative Fernando Wood, Peace Democrat
                    from 
                        New York
                     and staunch opponent of the bill, declared his belief that there was a motive other
                    than home- steading the South in Julian's proposal. Julian's extraordinary zeal in
                    presenting the measure, he explained, first made him wary. "I suspected there was an
                    African somewhere," Wood said, "and after some search I have found him."
                    The bill specifically stated that there would be no distinction between races in its operation.
                    "There is the nigger, sir," he cried. The New Yorker claimed that Julian was
                    trying to aid "his black friends" under the "pretext of doing a patriotic
                    and humane act in behalf of our soldiers and sailors…." Wood's greatest
                    objection to the bill was its assumption that the 
                        Union
                     would never be restored; for if it were to be restored, each state must come back with
                    its territory intact. All confiscated property would either have to be paid for or returned.51
            
            Evidently Julian did not care to dispute the charge that he was the Negroes' friend, but he
                    did disagree with the charge that his bill would be 
                  
                     46 Julian, Political Recollections, 245-46.
                  
                     47
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 1187; Julian, Select
                                Speeches, 23-26.
                  
                     48
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 1188.
                  
                            49
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 2108.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 2233-34.
               
                     a hindrance to the restoration of the 
                        Union
                    . "On the contrary," he interrupted, "I think it would do
                    more to cement and perpetuate the 
                        Union
                     than any legislative measure that could possibly be devised." Peace and
                    harmony would be insured by assuring that loyal men would people rebel land.52
            
            The next day, May 12, following a lively exchange between Robert Mallory of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Julian over the question of who—southern plantation owners or itinerant
                    northern schoolmasters—was responsible for the white blood in mulattoes, Congress voted
                    on the bill. It passed the House by the close vote, largely along party lines, of 75 to 64. Before
                    the Senate could take up the act, Attorney General James Speed stopped confiscation in the South by
                    ordering that all property seized by the federal authorities be restored to its owners.53 Julian's hope for confiscation did not end with this defeat. He
                    hoped that the 1864 national Republican platform would endorse his measure. A platform subcommittee
                    favorably reported such a plank, but it failed to pass the general resolutions committee.54 Although Julian did win some success in opening the South to homesteading in
                    1866 when Congress approved his Southern Homestead Bill, which extended the Homestead Act of 1862 to
                    nearly 50,000,000 acres of public lands in the South, his defeat in 1864 marked virtually the end of
                    his agitation on the confiscation question.55
            
            In March, 1864, during the heat of the battle for his confiscation act, Julian asked, "Of
                    what avail would be an act of Congress totally abolishing slavery, or an amendment of the
                    Constitution forever prohibiting it if the old agricultural basis of aristocratic power shall
                        remain?"56 Julian maintained this sentiment throughout his long
                    life, but on January 31, 1865, his skepticism about the efficacy of a constitutional amendment to
                    abolish slavery temporarily dissolved under the flood tide of emotion generated when Congress began
                    balloting on the Thirteenth Amendment. When the amendment became law, Julian felt that he
                    "had been born into a new life" and that "the world was overflowing with
                    beauty and joy." He was "inexpressibly thankful" for the privilege of
                    recording his name on "so glorious a page in the nation's history."57 Even though Julian continued to believe and to preach that the newly freed
                    men needed free land, he felt relieved enough to turn his full attention for the first time to the
                    thorny problems in land policy that had no direct relationship to slavery.
            Almost immediately Julian was back at work on land reform, this time advocating a complete overhaul
                    of the federal government's policy 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 2249. Julian's entire exchange of ideas with other members
                            of Congress runs from pages 2249-52.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 2251; Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, 210-11.
                  
                     54 Julian, Political Recollections, 242-43;
                            Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 194.
                  
                     55
                            Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 715-18, 748; Shannon, The Farmers' Last Frontier, 76-78; Gates, "Federal Land Policy
                            in the South," 304-306.
                  
                     56
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., 1187.
                  
                     57 Julian, Political Recollections, 251-52.
               
                     toward the nation's mineral lands. Before long he was
                    busy protecting homesteaders in 
                        California
                     or 
                        Kansas
                     or 
                        New Mexico
                     against the bucanneering of speculators and the Indians against the piracy of railroad
                    barons. Julian's concern for the Negro and the South had by no means ended, but clearly by
                    1865 his missionary efforts were headed in a new direction.58
            
            Although Julian labored in the whole spectrum of social reform, reforming the nation's land
                    system was his most persistent and perhaps his most significant activity. He established his basic
                    position on public land policy early in his career; and once established, he held to it tenaciously.
                    "It may be taken for granted as a general truth," he said in 1851, "that
                    a nation will be powerful, prosperous, and happy, in proportion to the number of independent
                    cultivators of its soil."59 Julian fought to bring about the United
                    States of which Thomas 
                        Jefferson
                     had dreamed, but he was unable to stop the relentless tide of the new America. His
                    career proved, however, that no other man had the homesteader more at heart, spent more energy
                    protecting him, or more loved the world he symbolized than George W. Julian.
            
               
                  58 Riddleberger, George W. Julian, 204.
               
                  59 Julian, Speeches on Political Questions, 54.
            
         
         
         
            Miner K. Kellogg: Recollections of 
                        New Harmony
                    
            
            
                    Edited by Lorna Lutes Sylvester
                
            
                    Contributed by C. W. Hackensmith
                    ∗
                
            "The end of our journey took us by surprize from a hill overlooking the beautiful village
                    lying silent, clean and inviting in the plain below, with the silvery stream of the 
                        Wabash
                     encircling it in the distance with the bright green canebrakes and prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     in the far distance. It was indeed the picture of Paradise to me and I was loth to
                    descend the hill for a nearer view."1 Thus Miner Kilbourne
                    Kellogg—a fairly successful, mid-nineteenth century artist—remembered his
                    initial view of 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, Writing approximately sixty years after he had come to the tiny, southern
                    Indiana town in 1825, Kellogg recalled that he had been the first of Robert 
                        Owen
                    's disciples to arrive to participate in the humanitarian's
                        "new Social system."2 About a year and a
                    half later the Kelloggs and a few friends left the "disintegrating" community at 
                        New Harmony
                     to attempt another communal experiment near 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana. This, too, failed; and the participants eventually returned to their former
                    homes in 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               .3 Left temporarily behind in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in the care of a friend, Kellogg later observed, "I was thus not only the
                    first but the last of this band of moral heroes sacrificed for the good of the human
                        race."4
            
            Much has been written about 
                        New Harmony
                     and Robert 
                        Owen
                    . Among the best known works are George B. Lockwood, The 
                            New Harmony
                         Movement (
                        New York
                    , 1905); Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian and
                        Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in America, 1663–1829 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1950); William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                            New Harmony
                         (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1964); and Karl]. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                        1785–1847 (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1965). The published diaries, journals, and reminiscences of a number of visitors to,
                    leaders of, and 
                  
                     ∗ C. W. Hackensmith is professor emeritus of physical
                            education, University of 
                        Kentucky,
                                    Lexington
                     . He is the author of
                            "John Fitch, A Pioneer in the Development of the Steamboat," Register of the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Historical Society, LXV (July, 1967), 187–211.
                  
                     1 "Brief Notes for an Autobiography of Miner K. Kellogg.
                            1886," 48, Kellogg Notes and Memoranda, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Hereafter cited as "Brief Notes." Page numbers refer to the
                            original document.
                  
                     2 Robert 
                                Owen
                             (1771–1858), a wealthy mill owner from New Lanark, Scotland, bought
                            the town of Harmonie in southern Indiana from George Rapp and the Harmony Society in 1825.
                            An idealist and a social, educational, and labor reformer, 
                                Owen
                             planned to develop at 
                                New Harmony
                             a new social order based on communitarian living. Although his experiment in
                            Indiana failed within a few years and Owen abandoned attempts at social reform within the
                            United States, he continued to promulgate his Utopian ideas until his death.
                  
                     3 "Brief Notes," 35–40.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 40.
               
                    
                    
                  MINER K. KELLOGG. SELF-PORTRAIT. Reproduced from Llerena Friend, M. K.
                                Kettogg's 
                                    Texas
                                 Journal, 1872 (Austin: University of 
                                Texas
                             Press, 1967).
               
                    
                    
                  BUST OF MINER K. KELLOGG BY HIRAM POWERS, 1828. Reproduced from Llerena Friend, M. K. Kellogg's 
                                    Texas
                                 Journal, 1872 (Aastin: University of 
                                Texas
                             Press, 1967).
               
                     lay participants in 
                        Owen
                    's experiment also abound.5 Little, however, has been
                    published about Kellogg. Various dictionaries of American artists include brief sketches of his life
                    and work, but the information therein is incomplete and often incorrect.6
                    Probably the best and most recent account of Kellogg— based on his numerous diaries,
                    journals, notes and memoranda, sketchbooks, and articles—is M. K.
                        Kellogg's 
                            Texas
                         Journal, 1872, edited with an introduction by Llerena Friend.7 Manuscript material in the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , includes a Private Journal, labeled Vol. 1st., and a miscellaneous collection entitled
                    Kellogg Notes and Memoranda.8 Part of the latter, an excerpt from which is
                    reproduced below, is "Brief Notes for an Autobiography of Miner K. Kellogg. 1886."
            According to Kellogg's "Brief Notes" he was born in Manlius Square,
                            
                  Onondaga County, New York
               , on August 22, 1814. His father was a tailor, and his mother
                    helped with the family business of weaving. In. 1818 the Kellogg family—including Miner,
                    two older brothers, and a younger sister— left 
                        New York
                     state for 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , where it was hoped a less rigorous
                    climate might improve Mrs. Kellogg's health. When they arrived in 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , friends persuaded them to remain; and the trip to Tennessee was
                    abandoned. Mrs. Almira Kilbourne (Harris) Kellogg, Miner's mother, died in December, 1820,
                    probably of tuberculosis. In March, 1822, the boy's father, Charles Fraser Kellogg, married
                    Miss Elizabeth Gazley. Charles Kellogg was apparently quite a successful tailor in 
                        Cincinnati
                    —both before and after he went to 
                        New Harmony
                    . According to his son he used the most modern processes of the day. Shortly after the
                    family returned from southern Indiana, Miner's stepmother, who had helped to raise him and
                    whom he greatly admired, also died. Although Charles Kellogg was eventually married a third
                    time—to Mrs. Eliza (Smith) Downes—Miner remained in the home of James W.
                    Gazley, brother of the second Mrs. Kellogg.9
            
            
               
                  5 See, for example, Arthur E. Bestor, Jr. (ed.), Education
                            and Reform at 
                                New Harmony
                            : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                            1820–1833 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV, No. 3; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1948), 285–417. Karl Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimer, Travels through North America, during the Year 1825 and 1826, excerpt from Vol. II,
                        105–25, in Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A
                            Collection of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 418–37; The Diaries of Donald Macdonald (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 2; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), 147–349.
               
                  6 George G. Groce and David H. Wallace, The New-York
                            Historical Society's Dictionary of Artists in Ameirca, 1564–1860 (
                            New Haven
                        , 1957), 364; Mantle Fielding, Dictionary of American Painters,
                            Sculptors and Engravers (
                            Philadelphia
                        , n.d.), 196.
               
                  7 Llerena Friend (ed.), M. K. Kellogg's 
                                Texas
                             Journal, 1872 (Austin, 1967). See particularly pp. 20–56.
               
                  8 The Indiana Historical Society Library also has a transcript of Sheldon
                        Ingalls Kellogg, "A Narrative of the Life of Sheldon Ingalls Kellogg." Sheldon
                        Kellogg was Miner's older brother, and this narrative also contains a brief description
                        of 
                            New Harmony
                        .
               
                  9 "Brief Notes," 1–4, 8–10,
                        47–50, 56, and passim; Friend, M. K. Kellogg's 
                                Texas
                             Journal, 20–24, 27.
            
            
            While in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Miner attended school; took lessons on the violin, which he learned to play well;
                    worked as printer's devil and newsboy for the Western Tiller, edited by
                    Gazley; joined Fire Company "No. 3"; and clerked in a dry goods store. Any spare
                    time, however, went to painting. He copied fashion plates for his father; worked with carriage and
                    sign painters; took lessons from Abraham G. D. Tuthill, a portrait painter, and other artists; and
                    finally set up a studio of his own. Kellogg eventually gained considerable renown as a painter and
                    copier of portraits. His copy of a Gilbert Stuart picture of George 
                        Washington
                     brought a commission from the 
                        New Jersey
                     legislature to paint a portrait of the first President for the state capitol. This in
                    turn brought an appointment to West Point—not as a cadet but as a student of science and
                    design. After his study there Kellogg did portraits of President Martin Van Buren, Governor James K.
                    Polk of 
                        Tennessee
                    , various Cabinet members, and the aged Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    . Then, in 1841, initially as a courier of the State Department, he traveled and studied
                    extensively in Europe and the Near East. In 1858 the forty-four-year-old Kellogg married Celia
                    Logan, then twenty-one, in 
                        Paris
                    . They were separated in December, 1865; but Kellogg retained custody of his only child,
                    Virginia Somers Kellogg, born April 25, 1860. Throughout the rest of his life Kellogg traveled and
                    painted widely in the United States and abroad. Today many of his works may be seen in the
                            
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , Art Museum. On February 18, 1889, Kellogg, "painter,
                    traveller, showman, publicist, and marchand amateur" died at the home of
                    his daughter in Toledo, 
                        Ohio
                    .10
            
            The portion of Kellogg's "Brief Notes" reproduced below contain his
                    recollections of the days in 
                        New Harmony
                     and in the community near 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . He describes Robert 
                        Owen
                    , "bareheaded and bald—with a most genial and benevolent
                    aspect"; the rigorous school system;11 the social life of the
                    community; and even feminine attire. "Here was inaugurated," he wrote,
                    "what has since been called the 'Bloomer'—short skirts and
                    pantalettes. It was graceful and pretty enough—but above all convenient, and it lasted as
                    a fashion long after the disbanding of the community…,"12
                    Despite the stringent discipline of the schools and the hard work required of the children
                    ("We were to be utilitarians in every sense of the word."), life in 
                        New Harmony
                     was fun. Kellogg learned to swim, to play the fife, and to pilot a barge. With the
                    other children of the community he explored 
                  
                     10 "Brief Notes," 11, 15, 51–56,
                            65–67; Friend, M. K. Kellogg's 
                                    Texas
                                 Journal, 21, 28–56.
                  
                     11 Although Kellogg describes the severity of school life in
                            "Brief Notes," he used somewhat harsher terms in his Private Journal. He
                            wrote, "I loved dearly to ramble alone in the woods, especially in the morning and
                            evening, for I could sit with perfect contentment in sight of an old bridge, and a group of
                            trees, and hear the distant murmering [sic] of the water as it swept along its serpentine
                            course, until the glimmerings of a magnificent sunset would remind me that night approaches,
                            and I must return to my prison. I certainly must have been a romantic
                            lad!!" Private Journal. Vol. 1st., Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     12 "Brief Notes," 33.
               
                     the Rappite labyrinth. Under the tutelage of naturalist Thomas
                    Say, he developed an interest in zoology—his self-constructed straw hat becoming
                    "a general receptacle of specimens." Kellogg also mentioned his first venture in
                    portrait painting, a "pretty fair" sketch of Robert 
                        Owen
                     himself.13
            
            Skepticism about the accuracy of a narrative written so many years after the events it relates does
                    not mar the flavor or interest of this document. Kellogg does err: he could not have arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     in April, 1824, nor do other accounts indicate that his father occupied a very
                    prominent place in the new community. Occasionally an old man's bitterness interrupts the
                    child's memories. Writing in 1886, Kellogg often appears to deride his father for following 
                        Owen
                     "in an experimental effort to benefit the 'human
                    race'." An eleven-year-old boy may well have noticed a laborer's
                    dissatisfaction with a scholar's supposed leisure; but only an elder Kellogg would have
                    concluded, "In other words the drones became the masters of the hive, and it was only a
                    question of time when the whole fabric would collapse and then would come the end
                    which the wiser men began to fear but dared not openly predict."14 But
                    the importance of these recollections does not lie in their profound, scholarly contribution to the
                    literature of Robert 
                        Owen
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    . Rather Kellogg has provided a child's-eye view—however
                    clouded—of two important years in the history of southern Indiana. His descriptions of
                    school life, the famous people he met, the teachers who encouraged him, and the amusements of a boy
                    amid the workings of a "new society" are interesting and valuable.
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid., 26–28, 29.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 30–31.
            
            
            
                    Brief Notes for an Autobiography of Miner K. Kellogg. 1886.1
               
                
            Up to this time [1825] my father had supported himself by his trade that of a tailor and was one of
                    the most excellent and fashionable of the City [
                        Cincinnati
                    ]. Had he been content to follow up his business he might have laid by a
                    competence—but he had no love of money, his heart was in some way inclined another way
                    which lead his mind to the contemplation of those abstract subject[s] which could be of little
                    service in the accumulation of means of immediate and direct benefit to himself. He scarcely ever
                    discussed commercial matters though he did political economy because it was of general concern, or
                    of benefit to the community at large. This wavering between the choice of a line of personal benefit
                    or a line of general good to humanity—kept his mind in just that unsettled condition as
                    prepared it for the reception of any plausible doctrines that promised a revolution in the accepted
                    order of things and which would create an entirely new System in the organization of society for the
                    good of the human race!
            This was just that condition of thought which was ready to receive the ideas of a new
                        Social system propounded by that great humanitarian Robt 
                        Owen
                     who had just made his appearance on an American Rostrum to propagate such a social reform, promising to result in a much happier era in human affairs. To this
                    enchanting doctrine my Father was ready to give ear, when Mr. Owen arrived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and gave lectures in advocacy of his peculiar views, and to gain proselytes to join him
                    in establishing a community in which these views should be carried into execution in a formal and
                    practical manner apart from the old communities which now prevented, through custom and prejudice a
                    favorable result to this new order of social 
                  
                     1 In editing this portion of Kellogg's autobiography every
                            effort has been made to retain the author's spelling, grammar, punctuation, and
                            style. Kellogg frequently omitted periods after abbreviations and sometimes failed to place
                            them at the end of sentences. His spelling was not always perfect, and occasionally he did
                            not begin his sentences with capital letters. These lapses and idiosyncracies have been
                            retained and have not been indicated by a [sic] as long as the meaning remained clear. In
                            many instances it was impossible to distinguish between Kellogg's capital and lower
                            case letters and between his periods, commas, and dashes. His intentions regarding
                            paragraphing were also difficult to ascertain. Decisions in these cases were necessarily
                            arbitrary, but whenever possible modern usage prevailed. In several instances additions
                            and/or deletions and erasures were made in what appeared to be the original manuscript.
                            Although it was impossible to tell whether Kellogg or someone else made the changes, what
                            seemed to be the most recent version was used. The following items have been standardized:
                            all raised letters have been brought down to the line; all flourishes or embellishments have
                            been removed; obvious repetition of words and phrases has been deleted; underscored words
                            have been italicized. With only four exceptions, Mr. Parsons, Gilmore, Ran Boss, and Ethan
                            Williams, all individuals mentioned in the document have been identified in footnotes. The
                            original autobiography is located in the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Grateful acknowledgement is made to Miss Caroline Dunn and her staff for
                            permission to publish and help in preparation of this portion of the manuscript and to
                            Professor C. W. Hackensmith for first calling attention to it.
               
                     life.2 The calm logic and good temper of Mr.
                    Owen captivated Father and he became one of the very first proselytes to follow him in an
                    experimental effort to benefit the "human race", at the
                    thoughtless risk of the fatal result which might overwhelm the members of his own family in case his
                    new venture should prove a failure! Thus it is with all enthusiastic humanitarians! But I need not
                    dwell on this fruitful subject; it must have been already exhausted by able peers throughout the
                    realm of social Philosophers. Men's minds in all ages give readier acquiescence to the
                    dictates of emotion than to the coolness of reason; and nothing but the actual results of sad
                    experience will correct their fatal delusions.
            Father was the victim of emotion; gave up his business, raised all the means he could and embarked in
                    the new Enterprize zealously in the spring of 1824. He became indeed one of the most active
                    Lieutenants of Mr 
                        Owen
                    .3 Many families of Gincinatfi] were as enchanted with the prospect
                    of a happy change in their social condition as was Father, and joined him in a journey to the
                    "promised Land." They went by Steamboat down the 
                        Ohio
                     until reaching Mt. Vernon in Indiana. This was a little village
                    upon the high bank of the river—composed of a few straggling frame buildings and probably
                    two hundred inhabitants. One hotel only.4 Landing the few trunks and household
                    goods belonging to the party at the water's edge they were left in charge of some one of
                    them whilst the others ascended the bank to the village Inn, where temporary accommodations were
                    found for the women and children. The weather was delightful, & sunny.
            preparations were now made for an onward move to the interior—the objective point of the
                    pilgrimage some fifteen miles distant on the banks of the Wabash River. In the
                    mean time it was determined to send a messenger ahead to make proper arrangements for the reception
                    of the party in "
                        New Harmony
                    ," which was to be their future "happy home".
            The prospect ahead was enchanting to all. The old folks were children again and moved as actively and
                    as gaily as in the days when picnicks were calling them to the woods for a good old frolic.
            
               
                  2 Robert 
                            Owen
                         arrived in 
                            Cincinnati
                         on December 9, 1824, and apparently remained only a few hours before proceeding to 
                            Louisville
                        . Kellogg's father must have learned previously of 
                            Owen
                        's successful social reform in New Lanark, Scotland, and of his plans to
                        inaugurate a "New Moral World." Contemporary 
                            Cincinnati
                         newspapers were not checked, but no other record has been found of 
                            Owen
                        's speaking in 
                            Cincinnati
                         at this time. The Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 1824–1826
                            (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 2; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), 236–37.
               
                  3 Other sources do not indicate that the elder Kellogg assumed so
                        important a place in 
                            Owen
                        's project, either in 
                            Cincinnati
                         or later in 
                            New Harmony
                        , as this document suggests. The Macdonald diaries note the Kelloggs'
                        arrival in the Indiana community and state that Miner's father was placed on a
                        committee which apparently served as a kind of preliminary governing body. Diaries
                            of Donald Macdonald, 292.
               
                  4 An early history of 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana, notes that 
                            Mount Vernon
                         became the county seat in 1825, the year of Kellogg's arrival. According
                        to the publishers, "The town took a new lease on life and grew quite rapidly, and was
                        the rival, and even ahead in numbers and commercial importance, of 
                            Evansville
                        ." History of 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1886), 361.
            
            
            
               VIEW OF NEW HARMONY Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library
            
            
            Mr. Parsons a young graduate of West Point was of the party and he was chosen to go on to 
                        New Harmony
                     to make known our coming to Mr 
                        Owen
                     who was awaiting our arrival. I was to accompany him. He mounted a spirited iron gray
                    colt and I was placed behind him and we made the journey through the uninhabited forest in great
                    glee, everything was fresh and joyous the bids plentiful gay in colors and musical. This in the
                    month of April 1824 The end of our journey took us by surprize from a hill overlooking the beautiful
                    village lying silent, clean and inviting in the plain below, with the silvery stream of the 
                        Wabash
                     encircling it in the distance with the bright green canebrakes and prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     in the far distance. It was indeed the picture of Paradise to me and I was loth to
                    descend the hill for a nearer view. But we had to move on to our destiny. The village was laid out
                    symetrically in squares bounded by wide streets, clean and white, but not a soul or animal to be
                    seen. It was Sunday—every body within their domiciles. We rode slowly through the street
                    fronting us not knowing where to find Mr. Owen. But noticing a goodsized house painted red differing
                    from all others we concluded it to be for public uses and rode towards it—no one yet in
                    sight from whom to get information—when we noticed a man emerge from the house and await
                    us before the door in expectancy. We saluted him and Parsons told him who we were "from 
                            Cincinnati
                        
               ." It was Robert 
                        Owen
                    . He was bareheaded and bald—with a most genial and benevolent
                    aspect—bade us welcome in quiet and Fatherly tones, and reaching up for me took me in his
                    arms to descend—greeting me with a kiss, placed me upon the ground with the remark that I
                    was the first disciple of his that had yet
                    arrived to make a home with him in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Escorting us into the Hotel—for such it proved to be, a servant took our
                    horse and we were domiciled for the time with the much loved man who was to direct our destinity in
                    the future. He was entirely alone not a member of his family had yet arrived, and Mr. Parsons soon
                    became the recipient of the projects to be carried out in the immediate future for establishing of
                    the Colony.
            In a day or so our families arrived from Mt. Vernon and were properly housed and
                    cared for in different parts of the almost deserted Village.6
            
            And now comes the proper time to give some account of the history of the origin and building up of
                    this unique settlement—of this most lovely of towns then existing in this far western
                    State of the American 
                        Union
                    . Its history and condition will throw a light upon the radical changes which were soon
                    to destroy its beauties and turn it into a "Paradise Lost." to those humanitarians
                    and free thinkers who were soon to possess it. Of course, all the steps taken in these changes were
                    witnessed by me, and being of a novel kind had a lasting effect upon my youthful mind and character.
            
               
                  5 Another record of the Kelloggs' arrival in 
                            New Harmony
                         indicates that the family came on Sunday, April 24, 1825. Diaries of
                            Donald Macdonald, 292.
            
            
            A sufficient number of the followers of Rapp had been left in Harmony to take charge and care of
                    properties which had been made over to Mr 
                        Owen
                     until he himself should arrive and take formal possession.6 These
                    consisted principally of the manufactories, dwellings and stationary property— and of
                    horses, cows, and other live stock which ranged the fields. There had been left a supply of
                    everything necessary for the convenience and temporary support of the New Comers. Some of the
                    factories were still running with the old hands, mostly women, who were to be withdrawn after being
                    supplemented by new ones. Families on arriving were distributed in various abodes now vacant and put
                    into some employment suited to their qualifications, such as farmers, mechanics and teachers. My
                    Father took a leading part in this labor of organization. It was not long before he was in some
                    measure relieved by the arrival of Mr 
                        Owen
                    's eldest son Robert Dale and I was placed under his particular charge.7 About this period the community was somewhat surprized and encoraged by the
                    arrival of a distinguished nobleman from Germany—a traveller and observer of the
                    character of our people and the practical operations of our Government— and a friend of
                    Mr. Owen. This was Prince or Duke of8 Mr. Owen escorted him every where to make
                    him thoroughly conversant with the present inchoate state of the community and what was intended to
                    be its future usefulness & distinction. I was happily for myself chosen by Mr 
                        Owen
                     to accompany them in their walks, and to listen to their views exchanged upon a variety
                    of topics relating to the new Community. I retain 
                  
                     6 George Rapp was a German-American religious leader and founder of
                            the Harmony Society. Dissatisfied with the teachings of the Lutheran Church, Rapp broke away
                            and preached to a group of his own followers in Germany. Later he and his associates moved
                            to America; established a community, Harmony, near 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , Pennsylvania, in 1804; and founded the Harmony Society in 1805. In 1815 Rapp
                            moved his community to Indiana, founding the town of Harmonie on the Wabash
                            River about fifteen miles from 
                                Mount Vernon
                            . Rapp's settlement was a religiouslybased, communistic colony in which
                            work, equality, and celibacy was the rule. In 1825 the Harmonists sold their town to Robert 
                                Owen
                             and moved back to Pennsylvania. For an exhaustive discussion of Rapp's
                            religious beliefs, the workings of his society, and the enormous prosperity of the
                            Harmonists in Indiana see Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony
                                Society, 1785 to 1847 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1965). As Kellogg indicates, a number of Rapp's followers remained in 
                                New Harmony
                             until May, 1825. Ibid., 289.
                  
                     7 Robert Dale 
                                Owen
                            , eldest of Robert 
                                Owen
                            's children, arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                             in January, 1826. William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent:
                                The Story of 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1964), 104, 137. No record has been found of Robert Dale 
                                Owen
                            's taking charge of Kellogg. For a complete account of the younger 
                                Owen
                             see Richard William Leopold, Robert Dale 
                                    Owen
                                : A Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940).
                  
                     8 Karl Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, toured the United
                            States for fifteen months during 1825 and 1826 and later published his impressions of the
                            country. He visited 
                                New Harmony
                             in April, 1826. His account of the visit does not mention Kellogg. Karl
                            Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, Travels through North America, during the Year
                                1825 and 1826, excerpt from Vol. II, 105–25, in Harlow Lindley (ed.),
                                Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of
                                Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            Ill; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 418–37. Kellogg, apparently unsure of the name or the
                            spelling and intending to add it later, merely left a space in the original document.
               
                     a vivid recollection of a scene occurring in our visit through a
                    large woolen Factory then in operation. As soon as it was made known that a distinguished foreigner
                    was visiting it—the machinery was stopped—and the spinners [Rappites] grouped
                    in their different rooms in respectful silence to receive the guest. These operatives were all women
                    and girls in their tidy simple dresses, and modest agreeable countenances. After a few words of
                    greeting from the Visitors as they passed into the different rooms, these working girls almost
                    seized me in their arms one after another, and embraced and kissed me as something entirely new and
                    pleasant to their lives. This attention was more agreeable to them than to me, for I knew not what
                    to make of it nor how to return it with grace, it became a little too much of a good thing and
                    embarrassed me greatly. I learned however afterwards to account for the scene. There had been no
                    children in their community since their families had departed for their distant abodes, hundreds of
                    miles away! But the Prince and Mr 
                        Owen
                     were evidently pleased at this exhibition of womanly tenderness and instinct.
            We made excursions daily, and I walked between these two agreeable men, each taking me by the hand
                    whilst they observed and chatted. The Prince remained several days and on his departure thoughtfully
                    left with me as a souvenir of his visit, a merry, knowing little poodle full of
                    tricks that he had brought all the way from Germany and who had been my jolly playmate in our walks
                    about the village. His name was Pico, and I shall never forget him. He died in a
                    few weeks of distemper and it was a long time before I ceased to weep for him—Poor Pico!
            As soon as enough children had arrived to form into classes, schools were established for their
                    reception and care. There was one large boarding school which was conducted on the Military Mess
                    system with two long tables parallel in one room. Into this the scholars were marched with military
                    precision to their allotted places, and thus marched out together to the playgrounds where they were
                    dismissed. Indeed the whole exercises were carried out in a prescribed and regular military manner.
            Into this school I was placed. The food was of the simplest and cheapest kind—no meats, no
                    eggs, no pies—Nothing in fact but corn mush and milk. This was good and healthy to those
                    that liked it—but I didnot—it so disagreed with me that I could not touch the
                    mush, the milk only was sipped up, hence I was nearly starved. Whenever I could do so after
                    dismissal I would slip into the kitchen door and beg for something to eat— and I was
                    often gratifies [sic] by the kind old cook giving me a good sized piece of the hardbaked mush which
                    adhered to the large iron pot. There seemed to be a determined effort to starve me out of my
                    fastidiousness and to keep up the principle of equality among the scholars—all must be
                    treated alike. In the playground—quite a field behind the school, were erected swings
                    bars, poles and other things pertaining to a Gymnasium, and gave great delight and healthy exercise
                    to us all: and here also we were regularly  drilled in squads and
                    companies in all military movements by experienced men. Our recitations were conducted in so
                    agreeable a manner that all were interested and studied faithfully—there was no need of
                    severity in any case. In fact the established order of government was one of kindness—
                    persuasion and love: an order more acceptable to the scholars, than agreeable to the
                    teachers—for the latter were compelled to keep a check on their impatience, and to govern
                    their own tempers when sorely tried. I recall one laughable instance of this. One of our best
                    instructors was an Irishman of fine abilities named Gilmore. He was marching us
                    down a broad street for exercise and drill formed into one long line across the street. We could
                    keep a line well dressed but for one gawky lazy overgrown boy named Ran Boss, who would persistently
                    fall a step behind. Gilmore would frequently touch him up from behind with a long fishing pole of
                    cane—still he lagged behind—at last Gilmore lost all patience and temper after
                    exhausting kind words—then he brought his long pole suddenly to his aid by a swishing
                    sweep across the back of Ran who found his proper place very quickly. But the whole line broke as if
                    by one impulse—the boys scattering in all directions with the cry of "Old
                    School"—Old School"—with Gilmore in great passion following
                    those he could reach with his pole—uttering his malediction as he ran. "I'll give you old school, I'll give you old
                    school," but he never got us together again that day—and we were never called
                    upon to make any apologies for such rudeness to our teacher—it was so well understood
                    that he had himself violated the Golden Rule of the school. This was the only violation of 
                        New Harmony
                     discipline that my memory now recalls.
            A Mr. Jennings now arrived, an educated man and competent teacher.9 A class of
                    twelve was chosen from our school to be promoted and placed under his special care at his own house,
                    I was one of the fortunate twelve. We went to his house and were given sleeping apartments up
                    stairs. A blanket was all that was considered necessary for boys in preparation of "making
                    men of themselves". This rude bed we had to make up ourselves every morning at day break,
                    by simply rolling it up on the floor and against 
                  
                     9 According to the Macdonald diaries Robert L. Jennings arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                             on April 24, 1825, in company with the Kelloggs and other families from 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Apparently he left for the 
                                Queen City
                             again about May 5 in order to persuade more of his friends to come to the
                            Indiana community. 
                                Jennings
                             had been trained in the military profession in England; had abandoned this
                            calling for that of the clergy; had come to the United States as a Universalist preacher;
                            and in turn had abandoned this profession to join 
                                Owen
                            's experiment. Jennings was involved in the educational process in 
                                New Harmony
                             and conducted a boarding school there. According to the Duke of Saxe-Weimar,
                            "his reserved and haughty character was ill suited for such a situation,"
                            and Owen gladly consented to his withdrawal from the school. 
                                Jennings
                             later helped edit the first issues of The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Gazette and served as equestrian drillmaster of the town's
                            company of light infantry. He never lost interest in education, however, and apparently
                            conducted other boarding schools at 
                                New Harmony
                             and elsewhere. Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 292, 293;
                            Bernhard, Travels through North America, 436; William Pelham, Letters of William Pelham, Written in 1825 and 1826, in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 370, 373, 376, 379, and passim; Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent, 119, 129–31;
                            Leopold, Robert Dale 
                                    Owen
                                
                     , 31–35, 61–62.
               
                     the wall. True Military discipline which was in every way
                    carried out by Mr 
                  
                            Jennings
                        —an honest and zealous disciple of the New Order of things. But such
                    was the severity and exposure to which our systems were subjected that the number twelve was
                    gradually so diminished by illness that after a few months discipline I was about the only one left
                    to make up a class, so that it was disbanded and I was promoted to some higher and
                    more agreeable position in this progressive community of zealots and
                    humanitarians, by being placed in some mechanical employment.
            I will note some of the severities of our duties. We were allowed neither shoes nor
                    stockings—even in the worst of winter weather, and were marched about with ice beneath us
                    and snow around us. This was to harden our systems! Even our bare heads were not shielded from
                    storms at any tune. In summer our heads had a better time of it, we were allowed straw
                    hats—but we were obliged to weave the straw ourselves, and leave wide lines of openwork
                    around the crown for ventilation. I made some very fanciful hats and was delighted with such a
                    pleasing labor, and study of ornamental forms of the shining material. We had to take a morning
                        "Constitutional before breakfast no matter what the weather. In
                    summer our route was down to the Wabash river into which we took a good plunge
                    bath, this was to give us strength to undergo the risks and effects of the more rigorous exercises
                    of the winter months. In this season we had to take the same Constitutional over the same
                    course—breaking the ice at times that we might gain free entrance to the exhilirating and
                    placid waters beneath! Yet all this dangerous trial of our systems was not in any degree prepared
                    for by a more generous and proper diet than was permitted in. the school we had so gladly left
                    behind. Yet I myself was zealot enough to be proud of having submitted without
                    complaint to this severe treatment.10
            
            The boys were made useful in various ways—Sometimes we were employed in the fields, hoeing
                    and gathering potatoes or other vegetables— hetchelling flax11
                    —shucking corn and other light work. Indeed there seems to have been no end to the
                    employments in which we were engaged and instructed, and by which a revenue to the
                        Community might be gained at
                    
                  
                     10 The schools at 
                                New Harmony
                             were supposedly based on the educational system developed by Johann Heinrich
                            Pestalozzi, a Swiss reformer in the field of education. Pestalozzi believed that the child
                            must receive both instruction and discipline in order to develop his complete
                            potentialities. Unlike the harsh schools of the nineteenth century, however, the
                            Pestalozzian system did not hold with severe corporal punishment but emphasized discipline
                            based on love and understanding. Thus Gilmore, who had apparently been trained in
                            "old school" methods, could not control his unruly charges. It is
                            difficult to ascertain just how closely the 
                                New Harmony
                             schools in general—and 
                                Jennings
                            ' school in particular—conformed to Pestalozzian teachings
                            and just where the strict military regimentation fitted into the system. For further
                            discussion of the schools and the education at 
                                New Harmony
                             see Arthur L. Bestor, Jr. (ed.), Education and Reform at 
                                    New Harmony
                                : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                                1820–1833 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV, No. 3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948).
                  
                     11 The word hetchel is a variation of hatchel or hackle, meaning to comb or board with long metal
                            teeth. It is used in connection with dressing flax, hemp, or jute.
               
                    
                    the same time. We were to be utilitarians in every sense of the word. As the
                    society increased in numbers various trades were established by competent tradesmen and the boys
                    were placed under their tuition and guidance. In the mean time men of learning arrived and took
                    positions as professors of higher branches of study such as botany and natural
                    history—even of languages and Philosophy and they did not lack for students before the
                    final collapse of the great experiment. It is a fact of especial interest to know
                    that many of the brightest intellects in the United States found their way to this new social
                    organization in the hope of making it, by the exercise of their exceptional attainments a Model, and
                    an eminent success. Among these accomplished scholars a few may be named as examples, because they
                    have been widely known and acknowledged as such. Say, the Naturalist, William
                    Maclure the "Father of geology." etc etc Other men of more than ordinary
                    intelligence came into this charmed circle. There was Phiqepal D'Arusmont, afterwards the
                    husband of Fanny Wright who often visited and encoraged the movement by her eloquence and engaging
                    language and noble manners. She had been a very noted and acceptable lecturer on free thought and
                    expounder of the doctrines of Mr 
                        Owen
                     throughout the principal cities—and—being the first female who had yet appeared upon the American Rostrum drew very large and intelligent
                    audiences whenever she lectured. I think she must have been one of the most original and attractive
                    women who has ever graced the lecture room in the United States. She undoubtedly led the way and
                    gave courage to those of her sex who afterwards enforced their views and sentiments however peculiar
                    or unpopular upon the attention of the public ear.12
            
            The "fife and drum" was agreeable music to my ear. I wanted a fife. There was no
                    way of getting one but to make one. So I went across the river into a cane brake where I selected a
                    suitable piece of cane took it to the black smith shop and with a redhot piece of iron burned out
                    the holes at proper distances and really made a very good fife—upon which I learned to
                    make music good enough to march by, and then used to lead a company of boys through the streets in
                    great glee and glory. Father used to amuse my infant ear with a real fife he had
                    brought from the war—this I suppose 
                  
                     12 In January, 1826, the keelboat Philanthropist
                            arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                            . Better known as the "Boatload of Knowlege," its passengers
                            were a group of brilliant, eccentric intellectuals whom Robert 
                                Owen
                             had recruited in the eastern states. Included among the passengers were William
                            Maclure, geologist, educator, and philanthropist, who was 
                                Owen
                            's principal associate and financial partner in the 
                                New Harmony
                             venture; Thomas Say, zoologist, conchologist, entomologist, curator of the
                            American Philosophical Society, and professor of natural history at the University of
                            Pennsylvania; and Guillaume Sylvan Casimir Phiquepal d'Arusmont, a Pestalozzian
                            teacher sponsored by Maclure. William S. Phiquepal, as he was known for a while in the
                            United States later married Frances Wright, a social reformer and leader in the free thought
                            movement. Miss Wright first came to 
                                New Harmony
                             in March, 1825, and apparently resided in the Indiana community off and on
                            until 1828. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent, 136–43. See also
                                Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 333–37; Victor Colin Duclos,
                                Diary and Recollections of Victor Colin Duclos, in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 537–38.
               
                     created a taste for the instrument.13 When I
                    could play well enough to deserve a better instrument Father actually managed to buy me a silver four keyed flute from some one in 
                        Evansville
                    , and this was my companion for many years, and I learned to play well enough by ear to
                    be considered quite a musician! When I left 
                        Cincinnati
                     it was lent to Ethan Williams—but I never saw it again—I hear it
                    is now in 
                        New Orleans
                     with some member of that family.
            I learned to swim, at first by pushing ahead of me a board for support with this I followed some
                    older boys across the 
                        Wabash
                    —they had landed in 
                        Illinois
                     and waited on the shore for me—but just then an immensely long water snake
                    passed swiftly ahead of me, frightening me so badly that I turned around to return to the Indiana
                    shore the boys screaming out to me that the snake would get me yet before I landed. Such was the
                    strength of the current that I was taken far beyond my starting point, but with great exertion
                    succeeded in landing soon enough to escape the rapid "cut-off in which had I entered I
                    should certainly have been drowned. This cut off had been caused by the effort of the 
                        Wabash
                     to make a shorter course leaving an island of some extent in the centre of the stream.
                    It was not navigable for steamers—they took the current around outside the island which
                    still maintained the original growth of forest trees, and the birds and animals native to the
                        district.14 At certain seasons at high water a raid was made by the
                    Harmonites upon the game—scows canoes and small boats carrying the raiders into every
                    part of its forest with their firearms—returning with the boats laden with splendid
                    ducks, squirrels and other wild game. On one of these expeditions I was made pilot of one of the
                    barges. It was a difficult, tiresome service for a little boy. the current was so
                    strong—rushing around the great trees, and over the tangled undergrowth—the
                    overhanging wild grapevines dropping from great heights imperilled our course—for to be
                    swept into this swirling tide would have been next to being lost; for there was no earth visible
                    upon which a footing could be obtained. Yet such an experience I enjoyed, and derived such knowledge
                    that I soon became quite 
                  
                     13 Miner Kellogg's father joined a dragoon company for the
                            defense of Sackett Harbor during the War of 1812. This is probably the war to which Kellogg
                            refers. Llerena Friend,M. K. Kellogg's 
                                    Texas
                                 Journal, 1872 (Austin, 1967), 22.
                  
                     14 In the time of Rapp's Harmonist Society the
                            community's access to the 
                                Wabash
                             boat landing was via Main Street. The river has changed course many times in
                            the intervening years, and today residents of 
                                New Harmony
                             reach the Wabash river bridge along Church Street. Wilson,
                                The Angel and the Serpent, 42. A group of petitioners to the Indiana
                            legislature in 1818 described the area mentioned by Kellogg as follows: "there is
                            at this place a large Island in the River on the Harmonie side the cut off
                            as it is called is three miles in length and the other fifteen and we are informed by one
                            Navigator Mr. Jones who ascended the River the [sic] would rather Navagate the Cut off then
                            the other by fifty dollar…." Quoted in Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 1785–1847 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1965), 263. The Harmonists had specifically purchased the land on the island
                            in order to control both sides of the river. They hoped to avoid annoyance and to follow
                            their own way of life in peace without disturbing others, but this situation frequently
                            caused hard feelings with their neighbors. Arndt, George Rapp's
                                Harmony Society, 263–64.
               
                     expert in handling an oar—often venturing any where
                    alone with a single oar in the rude "dug-out" or canoe of the
                    aboriginal denizens of these prolific solitudes.
            I became very fond of the study of zoology—and made excursions into the woods in search of
                    birds, insects and reptiles. Professor Thos Say, was our Instructor. My straw hat was a general
                    receptacle of specimens. Sometimes the outside was pinned full of beautiful and rare
                    insects—butterflies and beatles on which I received lessons whilst they were still
                    living. I was taught how to detect venemous from innocent reptiles and how to safely catch and
                    examine them—carrying the innocent ones, alive home in my pockets without fear. They
                    became great favorites from their grace of movement varied and lovely colors—the garter
                    variety especially.
            The first Labyrinth I ever saw was at 
                        New Harmony
                    . It was grown in an open field near the town and a source of constant
                    amusement to children. Its lines were formed of vines grown upon light fences and about four ft
                    high, converging as they reached the centre. Here the visitor came upon a circular hut made of the
                    ends of rough logs cut to a point externally leaving one window—& a blind door
                    which had to be sought out—& only found by pushing at the walls. I remember well
                    my first visit to this hut, after a long & tedious run back and forth through the labyrinth.
                    On seeking for the door a large snake took a look at me from between the logs, laughing at me with
                    its long red tongue. I got back out of the labyrinth much sooner and easier than I found my way in.
                    This play house had been formed by the ingenious Germans of the Rapp community.15
            
            Before Rapps house stood an interesting specimen of petrified sandstone lying upon four brick columns
                    as support. Upon it were deeply imprinted the tracks of human feet, one before the other as in the
                    act of walking. This stone was found somewhere in the neighborhood.16
            
            
               
                  15 The labyrinth to which Kellogg refers was composed of a small wooden
                        temple surrounded by tall, intricately placed hedgerows. Rapp apparently meant the labyrinth to
                        be emblematical of his society. The hedgerows represented te difficulty of arriving at harmony.
                        The temple had a rough exterior, indicating that at a distance harmony had no allurements. It
                        was, however, beautifully finished within to show the beauty of harmony once attained. Arndt,
                            George Rapp's Harmony Society, 112.
               
                  16 The rock to which Kellogg refers is a limestone slab on which are found
                        two naked human footprints. Apparently Frederick Rapp, George Rapp's adopted son,
                        purchased the curiosity in 
                            St. Louis
                         sometime in 1819 and brought it back to 
                            New Harmony
                         in order to preserve it. Enemies of the Rappites circulated a story that Father
                        Rapp used the strange rock to hoax his followers. According to the legend Rapp told his people
                        the footprints were Gabriel's, made when the angel came down from heaven to advise him
                        about the conduct of their affairs. Despite proof that St. Louis residents had known of the
                        existence of the limestone slab for many years and that Frederick Rapp probably bought it only
                        because of an interest in natural history, the myth persists today. A further indication that
                        Rappites did not believe the Angel Gabriel legend is their sale of the rock to 
                            Owen
                         along with the rest of 
                            New Harmony
                        . For a detailed description of the limestone slab and its legend see Wilson, The Angel and The Serpent, 70–77.
            
            
            In the Public Square was a large church and a town Hall, leaving about half the square for play
                    ground—in its centre stood a large pump and its trough before it. this trough furnished a
                    basin which served the boys for ablutions, and was a constant resort.
            The Church was used on Sundays for religious services by believers of every doctrine—and
                    even by Atheists when they wished to confute the believers in Holy Writ. The Town Hall was used for
                    public meetings. Mr 
                        Owen
                     often lectured. At one of these lectures I took a seat in the gallery directly opposite
                    to him, and with a paper on my hat-crown made a first attempt at drawing a likeness. It seemed a
                    pretty fair attempt as the boys recognized it immediately, and made quite a talk after the
                    lecture—Hearing of it Mr 
                        Owen
                     sought me out as I was washing my hands at the pump, and asked to see it. I was so
                    mortified at his having found me out that I declined his request—but his words were so
                    kind and encoraging that I took off my strawhat and pulled out the drawing for his examination. He
                    smiled at it, and said he thought it might be very good, and added, patting me on the shoulder,
                    "proceed—proceed, my son and you will make an Artist one of these days"
                    These words from so great a man impressed me for a very long time and were the first to give me
                    corage to "proceed" in making attempts of a similar character. Mr. Parsons
                    assisted me in my labors. He had learned drawing at West Point. Here was a new source of delight and
                    I drew upon it often in trying to copy the outlines of birds butterflies and other beautiful
                    subjects. I cannot imagine a region richer in birds of splendid plumage or insects of greater rarity
                    and variety. The paroquets were so plentiful that flocks of them passed through the thick woods with
                    lightning speed shrieking like a steam whistle—in their rapid flight—their
                    brilliant greenish & goldish tints fitfully flashing across amid the sombre shadows of the
                        forest.17
            
            Very little time was occupied in this study of art—so many other duties were forced upon
                    me in the varied trades and exercises demanding attention. But it served the purpose of turning my
                    attention and taste to the beautiful arts.
            After four oclock in the afternoon our school hours terminated for the day; then we strolled around
                    and played in the woods as we liked. One day 
                  
                            
                        17 "Parroquets" were apparently quite common in
                                southern Indiana at this time. Another visitor to the state describes them as follows:
                                "though they have become so familiar; and though they excell all the birds of
                                this country in beauty of plumage,— their scream is so discordant, and their
                                fierceness of disposition so apparent, as to preclude every sensation of attachment.
                            "These birds build their nests in hollow trees. The strength of their necks is
                                remarkable; and we are assured that when both wings and feet are tied they can climb
                                trees by striking their bills into the bark." David Thomas, Travels through the Western Country in the Summer of 1816, in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 80.
                        
               
                     I was walking with Mr Parsons, and stopped to look upon some
                    work men laying the foundation for a new building. One of these work men saluted Mr. Parsons and
                    ceased his work to have a chat. "Well Professor, you have an easy time of it this hot day,
                    but you get just as much pay as we do, and yet we work from daylight till dark, whilst you can stop
                    work at four oclock."
            "This does seem wrong that's true," said the teacher,
                    "but there are different kinds of labor, some physical and some mental: each has its value
                    in the social economy. Would you like to change places with me?" "No I thank you,
                    but it dont seem altogether fair any how" and turned sullenly away again to his labor. Here
                    was the beginning in men's minds of the workings of the idea of equality
                    which they had acknowledged in joining the community. This idea soon took root and was being freely
                    discussed as new recruits came into camp. And it was not very long before men sought the easy
                    positions—many were dissatisfied to labor under the guidance of others and to do the
                    duties of subordinates. This pernicious notion grew to such proportions that the most inefficient
                    persons pushed forward claims to the superintendency of factories and mechanical establishments, and
                    when rejected would sulk away and shirk those duties which were within their capacities. Hence the
                    result was that, the most important labors for the ultimate success of our experiment were by
                    degrees avoided or only half performed by unwilling or wrongheaded men. As long as the intelligent
                    and honorable men who founded the society were its guides all went on happily and prosperously and
                    made its name known widely, drawing in members from every quarter. Had there been a proper
                    regulation for the admittance of those only who might become useful and devoted to its future
                    success— the experiment would have had a longer trial. Without such a wise method of
                    initiation it soon became apparent that the drones were fast taking possession of the hive and there
                    could be found no method by which to drive them out. They were beginning to eat up the resources of
                    the Community. Factories were mismanaged and the quality of their goods falling in the markets where
                    they had once stood superior to all others. Cattle and sheep were neglected in the fields and even
                    fences were being used for firewood notwithstanding the unlimited supply lying in the adjacent
                    woods. The streets became unclean and buildings needed repairs. It seemed that it was
                    nobody's especial duty to attend to such matters—and no force of law could be
                    brought to bear on delinquents. In other words the drones became the masters of the hive, and it was
                    only a question of time when the whole fabric would collapse and then would come the
                        end which the wiser men began to fear but dared not openly predict.
            Whilst Father was in his laboratory in Cin. he made some experiments on the quality of the white clay
                    used in some of the processes therein. He  imagined it would make
                    good porcelain—even china—and produced some cups as clear and beautiful as
                    china. He stated this fact to 
                        Owen
                     and hoped it might open a new industry to the community. Mr 
                        Owen
                     then arranged with him to obtain some of it It had been sent to the Laboratory in 
                        Cincinnati
                     from the Missippi river, near 
                        Memphis
                     I think. Father and some chemist— may be Maclure? were charged by Mr 
                        Owen
                     to go down there and if practicable purchase the whole tract of the 
                        Clay
                     land—that a sure supply might be made available for manufacturing purposes.
                    If it turned out as expected Father was to be compensated for his discovery by having a right to all
                    he wished to use for the term of twenty years. He was unfortunately left pennyless after leaving the
                    community—and hence nothing more ever came of that speculation. But the
                    clay did become useful a few years afterwards and made fortunes for a company in 
                        Louisville
                     who obtained all the clay they needed for the mere expence of
                        transportation to 
                        Louisville
                    . This is the history of the establishment of the beautiful porcelain factory for many
                    years— possibly yet existing in the city of 
                        Louisville
                    . Whether the executors of 
                        Owen
                     held on to the tract I never learned. This was sixty years ago.18
            
            No money was circulated in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The principle was barter on the cooperative plan. One store alone sufficed for all the
                    traffic—each purchaser paid in the value of his labor. There was an excitement among us
                    boys one day when some coin was received at the store. It had been a strange object in the town and
                    we were gratified by the opportunity afforded by the storekeeper to handle some few cents of the
                    currency of the outer world! Towards the end of the experiment the exports fell short of the imports
                    needed for our sustenance—and want and trouble stared us in the face—crowds
                    sometimes surrounding the store clamoring for the actual necessities of life. This fact I well
                    remember for I witnessed it in great astonishment and fear. Only think of such a dire result to such
                    magnificent promises. A collapse must soon ensue of course.
            We were often treated to a ball in the town hall. The only thing different from such an amusement in
                    other towns was the dress of the girls. Here was inaugurated what has since been called the
                    "Bloomer"—short skirts and pantalettes. It was graceful and pretty
                    enough—but above all convenient—and it lasted as a fashion long after the
                    disbanding of the community—possibly does yet among the old residents.19
            
            
               
                  18 The Duke of Saxe-Weimer also mentioned that "procelain
                        earth" had been discovered not far from 
                            St. Louis
                         and that "two experienced members of the society" had gone to
                        bring some back to 
                            New Harmony
                         to use in experiments. Bernhard, Travels through North America,
                        425.
               
                  19 Another resident of 
                            New Harmony
                        , Mrs. Sarah Pears, described the female dress as "a pair of undertrowsers
                        tied round the ankles over which is an exceedingly full slip reaching to the knees, though some
                        have been so extravagant as to make them
            
            
            There was one fact deserving notice in that society of comparative strangers to each
                    other—met here from every quarter—there was no thieving nor
                    crime—consequently no police or courts. There were no drinking saloons. I dont think
                    there was an instance of inebriaty known—nor do I believe there was any intoxicating
                    liquor in the place.20 It was peaceful—every man respecting his
                    neighbor. Religious observances were confined to those whose faith exacted them, but they were not
                    enforced on others—even by general opinion. Free thought on such matters was equally
                    respected, hence no unpleasant collisions of sentiment. Mr. Owen himself did not believe in the
                    inspiration of the Scriptures, nor did his sons, and I suppose many others held that view, but there
                    were no contentions. Every one quietly enjoyed his own belief. Sunday was by
                    common consent kept as a holiday—and was enjoyed as each person liked—in
                    repose, in work or in study—in music or in games of recreation.
            The church building in the public square was held sacred on Sunday for the uses of religious
                    people—so that when they occupied it on that day the square in front of it was not used
                    for any species of amusement which might disturb worshipers within. There was no law but public
                    sentiment to control such things. There being no Church or other bells, the Sunday was as silent in 
                        New Harmony
                     as it is in any Mohammedan town. It impressed me very greatly the beautiful Sabbath day
                    on which I entered it. It did not appear to be inhabited, and was as silent as Pompeii itself.
            The town was laid out in squares enclosing four brick dwellings one at each corner—the
                    inner space was given up to gardens for the families residing in the houses—one family to
                    each. Factories and workshops were placed in the suburbs. Wood only was then used and therefore no
                    black smoke was seen and the atmosphere always clear and healthy—every thing as clean and
                    inviting as a parlor floor.
            In bad weather of course the streets were exceptions, as in all such unpaved towns without water
                    works or hydrants. Pumps supplied drinking water, good and plentifully. There were no accidents by
                    fire during the two 
                  rather longer, and also to have the sleeves long." Mrs. Pears also discussed the
                            men's apparel, "The pantaloons are extremely full, also tied around the
                            waist with a very broad belt, which gives it the appearance of being all in one….
                            They are tied around the neck like the girls' slips, and as many wear them with no
                            collar visible, it is rather difficult to distinguish the gentlemen from the
                            ladies." Thomas 
                                Clinton
                             Pears, Jr. (ed.), 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , an Adventure in Happiness: Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 82.
                  
                     20 According to the Duke of Saxe-Weimer, 
                                Owen
                             reported that the Rappites' old distillery was to be torn down because
                            he had forbidden the serving of spirituous liquors in 
                                New Harmony
                            . At the time of the Duke's visit, however, wine was still being made;
                            and apparently the townspeople did not maintain complete abstinence. Bernhard, Travels through North America, 425.
               
                    
                    
                  NEW HARMONY IN 1824 Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library
               
                     years of my stay—even had there been—the
                    houses were so isolated that even without an engine no serious conflagration could have occurred.21
            
            A few small steamers had ventured to run up the 
                        Wabash
                     as far as Terrehaut—but very seldom seen—so small was the
                    Commerce.
            In time the evidences of the ultimate failure of this humane but ill-advised project of bettering the
                    social condition of men had so multiplied that even the zealots had given up hopes of success. They
                    maintained however that had there been a proper organization at the first, it must have ultimately
                    succeeded. Of these believers my father was one, and longed for an opportunity to establish another
                    society in some other quarter on a new basis—eliminating all the evils which experience
                    had shown to be pernicious and destructive in the present attempt to ameliorate the ancient
                    condition of the civilized world. After a quiet conference with a few of his old 
                        Cincinnati
                     friends in the community and with Mr. Owen it was arranged to take a "New
                    departure". Father was fortunate enough to obtain enough money to help him in this
                    enterprize—he got twenty dollars and it was all that Mr 
                        Owen
                     could spare—showing the desperate condition of his own finances! But he had
                    confidence enough in the result of such an enterprize as to bless it and lend a hand.
            This new party of confidential friends quietly took their departure for fresh fields and pastures
                    new, so as not to alarm the old members and create a sudden and complete break down of the
                        Society.22 A very warm advocate of Socialism was known who possessed a good
                    farm and some means near 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Indiana. He was prevailed on to engage in the new movement, and to offer his farm in
                    aid of the purpose.
            The date of our removal I forget, say in 1827, nor do I remember our departure, but it was back over
                    the same road to Mt. Vernon, for here we had to await some days the passing of
                    a Steamer from below. Our luggage of the whole party was placed at the waters edge while the
                    families stopped up in the village—leaving some of us to care for our property and watch
                    for a steamer to take us away. It was my turn one night. The river was very low—the night
                    clear and a steamer could be seen several miles off—but her paddles could be heard before
                    she could be discerned. I often placed my ear to the water to catch the first notice of her approach
                    and at last she was heard and I joyfully gave the signal to our party to hurry down. 
                  
                     21 The Duke of Saxe-Weimer recalled a fire in the washhouse when he
                            was in 
                                New Harmony
                             in 1825. He, too, states that since the houses all stood separately, there was
                            nothing to fear from extension of fire. Bernhard, Travels through North
                            America, 426.
                  
                     22 The Kellogg's caution, if such it were, was unnecessary.
                            Dissatisfaction with the 
                                New Harmony
                             experiment was considerable. At least four similar offshoots of the society,
                            including one called Macluria and another named Feiba Peveli, had developed by the end of
                            1826. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent, 24.
               
                     We had a fire kept up on the shore as a timely notice to the
                    steamer to stop for passengers, or she might have passed up without us—leaving us several
                    days more for the next steamer. She noticed our fire and as the river was too low for her to reach
                    the shore, she awaited us in midstream. By the aid of her yawl and some ferry boats ourselves and
                    luggage was safely placed aboard—and we then moved rapidly up to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     our destination. Here we were put ashore, and climbed up the bank to the town situated
                    high up along the river. For many reasons we were detained some days, I suppose while some
                    arrangements were entered into with the farmer who was to receive and conduct us to his country
                    home. I knew we wandered about the town almost pennyless—for I at last parted with my
                    only pocket piece, a "fipenny bit", and it distressed me; but I could not withold
                    this small contribution for a pail of Milk needed by the women to get us up a frugal meal! This
                    seemed to me the most pitiful condition we had ever known—and it was. The farm was about
                    ten miles out from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in a very rich country, and our courage was stimulated by the promises of plenty of
                    good things and nice times when we settled in our new home! Such was undoubtedly the belief of our
                    brave leaders—nothing could quell their faith in the "good time
                    coming". To shelter our party in the meantime an untenanted deserted old house in the
                    outskirts of town was taken; and what still reminds me of the fact is that there were some loud
                    complaints from the owner who feared we would remain there too long gratis so were
                    hurried out on our journey as quickly as possible, and 
                        Providence
                     aided us with most delightful weather.
            The farmer, I think his name was Phillips, resided in roomy substantial frame house, surrounded by
                    barns, cribs and out houses, well cultivated fields and good fences.23 All gave
                    evidence of thrift comfort and happiness. At any rate we were soon cheered by a good substantial
                    meal for our hungry bodies—our spirits beginning to warm up with the old promises of a
                    blissful ending to our troubles.
            The women were comforted and made at home by the kindhearted hostess whose zeal in
                    our cause was as lively as that of her husband. The men and boys were shewn over the place, and
                    projects concocted for the future building up of a new town around this old homestead. The next day
                    the axe was laid upon many a fine tree in preparation for foundations of necessary
                    dwellings—and many lines marked out among the fences for future thorough- 
                  
                     23 According to the will book of 
                        Jefferson County, Kentucky
                     , one Jenkin Phillips owned a number of acres in the old 
                                Illinois
                                Grant
                             in 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana. Presumably this was the land to which the Kelloggs and their friends
                            moved. Despite the later trouble which caused the new community to disband, Phillips
                            retained ownership of the land until his death. Katharine G. Healy (ed.), "Calendar
                            of Early 
                        Jefferson County, Kentucky
                      Wills: Will Book No. 2, June, 1813-December,
                            1833," Filson Club History Quarterly, VI (April, 1932),
                            183–84.
               
                     fares of an imaginative village—such was the kind of
                    labor of the first few days. How I enjoyed the talk of these wise enthusiasts over the grand plans
                    which occupied their lively minds, whilst their arms were busy in making havoc of the improvements
                    of the olden time. My youthful joys began to live again. I roamed over the fields and forests
                    collecting glorious butterflies and insects, always with an eye open for snakes of
                    course—they were to be my pets. Squirrels quail and other small game
                    abounded, corn cribs kept them in good health and fearless of man. They too became at last among the
                    pets of the household. I was literally in clover and celebrated these happy times by the piercing
                    notes of the old fife and attempts to get out of the new and wonderful flute the oft studied strains
                    so dear to my father's heart—of Robin Adair"—Charlie over
                    the Water" and "Auld Lang Sine". The Scotch blood was innate, and he
                    joined in my festal exercise by the most dexterous use of his favorite Jewsharp
                    which often astonished me.
            The snakes were kept safely in a little box with a sliding lid which my Aunt Jane had given me, and
                    was hidden away in an outhouse among other baggage—and here I quietly looked over
                    & handled them always alone. Aunt Jane had occasion to visit the place to look after trunks.
                    One day I heard the piercing scream of a woman in that house and Aunt Jane burst out of the door in
                    a spasm of fear, screaming unceasingly until she reached the homestead door into which she rushed
                    and fell upon my mother's lap in convulsions. I well knew what was the cause and made quick
                    steps to the snakehold where my pets were fast crawling over the sides of their box from which the
                    cover had been partially drawn by my Aunt. I soon secured them and knowing what would be the result
                    of the fright, I carried the box out of a back door and secreted it among the weeds in the corner of
                    a worm fence—I was never allowed to use that house for alike purpose. After this I kept
                    the box in an empty corncrib some distance away in a field where I went when I wished some fun with
                    the snakes. One day I missed them. My greatest surprize was how it was possible they could escape,
                    the key hole was too small and there was no other exit possible. After Aunty's fright I had
                    placed a tiny lock upon the cage and carried the key in my pocket for safety. The lid was still
                    locked. But how those snakes ever escaped is a mystery to this day! I saw a man wink as I told my conumbrum [sic] but what's a wink? But this ended my enjoyment of
                    snakes forever—and I have never been able to look at them except with a crawling horror.
            Amid the joyful activity of all hands a sudden halt was called—Mr. Phillips was in
                    trouble. The Sherif came with writs against him from Creditors who had heard of the changes now
                    going on for the destruction of his property and his probable bankruptcy as a result. I never knew
                    the rights in question. I heard them energetically argued by the leaders pro and con without the
                    least understanding the points. But I soon knew that we were 
                    peremptorily ordered to stop work and move off the premises. Whether Mr. Phillips really owned the
                    farm I do not know. Having no means to spend in a lawsuit it was thought best to follow orders and
                    vacate at once. This was done and we all packed up again and moved back to Jeffersonvillej en route to some other more hospitable place. Then it was arranged to
                        disband! All the families but one took the next steamboat for 
                        Cincinnati
                     leaving me in care of Mr. Westcott the shoemaker who was soon to follow the others to
                    their oldhomes in 
                        Cincinnati
                    !
            This was the end of all hopes of planting a happy community of Socialists in that quarter of the New
                    World!
            After seeing the "beginning, rise and fall" of this noble experiment, the next
                    steamboat took my guardian and his little ward back towards 
                        Cincinnati
                    . I was thus not only the first but the last of this band of moral heroes sacrificed for
                    the good of the human race!
         
         
         
            April as Hoosier History and Heritage Month
            At its regular biennial session in 1967 the Indiana General Assembly approved a resolution, sponsored
                    by Senator Robert P. O'Bannon of Corydon and Senator J. J. Bailey of Anderson, declaring
                    April of each year to be Hoosier History and Heritage Month. The resolution's suggestions
                    about relevant historical programs and observances should be helpful to students, teachers,
                    librarians, and citizens generally. During April, schools, historical societies, libraries, museums,
                    newspapers, luncheon clubs, and the like should sponsor educational programs or exhibits concerning
                    some topic or aspect of Indiana's history and heritage. Moreover, as indicated in the
                    resolution which follows, April is a particularly pleasant time of year to visit historical sites
                    and to enjoy the beauty to be found in most of Indiana's countryside as well as in many of
                    its towns and cities.
            The legislative declaration of April as Hoosier History and Heritage Month was one of various
                    by-products of the Indiana Sesquicentennial. Having such a month annually affords a helpful reminder
                    that the study of state and local history merits constant attention and encouragement. Since this
                    year is the first since the legislative resolution became effective, the Indiana
                        Magazine of History is especially pleased to be able to include the proclamation of
                    Governor Roger D. Branigin formally calling upon Hoosiers to observe April as Hoosier History and
                    Heritage Month. Governor Branigin is himself unusually well informed about Indiana history and is an
                    avid collector of valuable books, manuscripts, and other material about all aspects of the
                    state's history, making it particularly appropriate that this initial proclamation should
                    come from him.
            The legislature of 1967 also took another important step concerning state and local history. It
                    directed the Indiana Department of Natural Resources to make a statewide study of historical sites
                    and buildings. Dr. I. George Blake, professor of history at 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana 46131, has been appointed director for this study. In cooperation with an
                    advisory committee he is collecting information about historical sites and buildings and will
                    subsequently suggest guidelines and priorities concerning their preservation and maintenance to the
                    next general assembly. Representatives of historical organizations and other individuals who have
                    useful information about Indiana's historical sites and buildings should make it available
                    to Dr. Blake.
            
            A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION declaring the month of April as Hoosier History and Heritage Month.1
            
            WHEREAS, An understanding and appreciation of Indiana's history and government are essential
                    to proper exercise of citizenship on the part of Hoosiers; and
            WHEREAS, Schools, libraries, historical societies, museums, theatres, art associations, and musical
                    organizations contribute significantly to such understanding and appreciation; and
            WHEREAS, Service clubs, women's organizations, business and professional groups, fraternal
                    orders, and organizations of laborers, farmers, youth, religious, and political groups have many
                    opportunities to encourage such understanding and appreciation; and
            WHEREAS, The Act of Congress resulting in the writing of Indiana's first Constitution at
                    Corydon in June, 1816, and the state's admission to the 
                        Union
                     on December 11 following, was approved by President James Madison on April 19, 1816;
                    and
            WHEREAS, April is a particularly pleasant and rewarding time to visit Indiana's scenic and
                    historical places: Therefore
            
               Be it resolved by the Senate of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, the House
                        of Representatives concurring:
            SECTION 1. That the month of April annually be declared Hoosier History and Heritage Month by formal
                    proclamation of the Governor of Indiana; that especially during April, schools, libraries,
                    historical societies, museums, theaters, art associations, and musical groups should make special
                    efforts to feature classes, lectures, exhibits, plays, pageants, and other educational programs
                    regarding Indiana's history and heritage; and that service clubs, women's
                    organizations, business and professional groups, fraternal orders, and organizations of laborers,
                    farmers, youth, religious, and political groups are urged to develop or cooperate with others in
                    sponsoring educational programs concerning Hoosier History and Heritage Month.
            SEC. 2. That during April, Hoosiers both individually and collectively be asked to engage in special
                    programs or projects which help protect and preserve parks and wilderness areas, foster preservation
                    and increase of natural resources, and enhance and safeguard the natural beauty of all portions of
                    the Hoosier State.
            SEC. 3. That particularly during April, state and local units of government, representatives of the
                    mass media, and Indiana organizations and citizens generally are encouraged to cooperate with others
                    in sponsoring programs which increase knowledge of and appreciation for the large and continuing
                    debt owed those who have made important contributions to economic, educational, political, and
                    religious life from pioneer days to the present.
            
               
                  1 The following resolution is reproduced verbatim, without change in
                        punctuation or spelling, from Indiana, Laws (1967), 1344–45.
            
            
            
                    proclamation
                
            FOR: HOOSIER HISTORY AND HERITAGE MONTH… APRIL 1-30, 1968
            TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME, GREETING:
            WHEREAS, the State of Indiana has a rich historical heritage which has produced an image distinct and
                    unique among the fifty states: and
            WHEREAS, this image reflects the courage of Indiana's early settlers, the stability of the
                    principles of its government, the varied character and talents of its citizens, and the pride and
                    patriotism of all who call themselves, Hoosier: and
            WHEREAS, it was in April, 1816, when President James Madison signed the law authorizing
                    Indiana's admission to the 
                        Union
                    , and it was on December 11, 1816, when formal statehood began: and
            WHEREAS, it is fitting that today's generation of Hoosiers demonstrate their appreciation of
                    this heritage and rededicate themselves to its traditions and ideals:
            NOW, THEREFORE, I, Roger D. Branigin, Governor of the State of Indiana, in accordance with Chapter
                    362, Acts of 1967, do hereby proclaim the month of April, 1968, as
            HOOSIER HISTORY AND HERITAGE MONTH
            
                    and urge all citizens to reread the State's Constitution and stories about
                        Indiana's history, and that our schools, libraries, historical societies, museums,
                        civic groups, and other organizations recognize this State's history and heritage in
                        special programs.
                
            [SEAL]
            IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I HAVE HEREUNTO SET MY HAND AND CAUSED TO BE AFFIXED THE GREAT SEAL OF THE
                    STATE OF INDIANA, AT THE CAPITOL, IN THE CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, THIS 30TH DAY OF JANUARY 1968.
            [Signed] R. Branigin GOVERNOR OF INDIANA
            BY THE GOVERNOR [Signed] Edgar D. Whitcomb SECRETARY OF STATE
         
         
         
            Indiana History Workshop
            The eighteenth annual Indiana History Workshop will be held at McCormick's Creek State Park, 
                        Spencer
                    , Indiana, from Thursday evening, April 25, through Sunday morning, April 28, 1968. A
                    diversified program is planned, and a schedule of the lectures will be provided in an early issue of
                    the Indiana History Bulletin. Arrangements for rooms should be made directly with the management of
                    Canyon Inn at the park. The workshop is sponsored by the Indiana Historical Bureau, the Indiana
                    State Library, and the Indiana Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               We Came Rejoicing: A Personal Memoir of the Years of Peace. By Harvey Jacobs. ([
                        New York
                    ]: Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 216. $4.95.)
            In We Came Rejoicing Harvey Jacobs shares his recollections of his boyhood in rural
                    Indiana. Jacobs is an alumnus and former faculty member at 
                        Franklin
                     College and now heads the Journalism Department at 
                        New Mexico
                     State University. He writes with skill and discrimination.
            It was a good time and a good place to be a boy. The place was a prosperous 
                        Johnson County
                     farm; the time was the 1920's. Apparently, it remained a pretty good place
                    even after the onset of the great depression. The author recalls his eager anticipation of the
                    opening of the sugar camp, the special savor of sugar-camp meals, the never-ending boy's
                    job of carrying wood, and the warm sweet taste of fresh syrup. Educational experience is relived at
                    the "consolidated" one-room school. What it lacked in plumbing, it made up in
                    teaching: Jacobs learned to write. The country church was a vital institution, and Harvey joined via
                    the immersion route along with a dozen other boys during a "protracted meeting."
            The rising tide of technological change is treated extensively. There was a Fordson tractor which
                    Harvey drove before his mother thought he should. The costs and characteristics of cars are
                    discussed, and it is clear that the social pattern was being altered by the internal combustion
                    engine. The exciting advent of radio is described in "Don't Jar the
                    Catwhisker." And Harvey had his first airplane ride, flying with a 
                        Shelby County
                     barnstormer from the Jacobs hayfield.
            Other essays deal with the wheat harvest and threshing, the general store with its varied wares and
                    smells, and the excitement engendered by train traffic at the local station. Tribute is paid to Dr.
                    Carl, the country doctor, and that venerable social-educational mechanism, the Farmers'
                    Institute. Harvey recalls the thrill of buying the right pie in the pie auction, which carried with
                    it the privilege of sitting with the right girl. And there was the weekly visit to the county seat
                    on Saturday night, an event of considerable social and economic significance.
            
               We Came Rejoicing is rich in nostalgia, but it is also good social history. For
                    over a century the independent small farmers were the dominant element in Indiana society. Jacobs
                    pictures this way of life just as cumulative technological change, shifting agricultural economics,
                    urbanization, and the impact of the great depression combined to destroy it. This Hoosier yeomanry
                    built a strong society. While its agricultural efficiency compares unfavorably with the large scale
                    commercial farming that has supplanted it, it produced generation after generation of good citizens.
                    It merits remembrance.
            
                    Indiana Historical Bureau
                
            Hubert H. Hawkins
         
         
         
            
               Improving the State Legislature. A Report of the 
                        Illinois
                     Commission on the Organization of the General Assembly. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xiv, 146. Notes, appendices, index: summary of recommendations.
                    Paperbound, $2.95.)
            A strong argument can be made that the single most important political institution in the complex
                    American system of government is the state legislature. In spite of the growing role of the central
                    government, the national Congress and the President still function in only limited areas; and even
                    then often through programs which are modified and differentiated by state decisions. All local
                    governments, at the other end of the spectrum, do only those things authorized by state legislation.
                    The General Assembly of a state is a key institution, involved directly or indirectly in many
                    national and all local activities, as well as those of the states themselves.
            Like most political institutions, especially those deeply rooted in history, the form and functioning
                    of most state legislatures have lagged behind the rapidly changing needs and urgencies of the times.
                    This report, produced by an official 
                        Illinois
                     commission composed of a dozen legislators and ten citizens, includes eighty-seven
                    recommendations for substantial and significant reforms and renovations in the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature and its procedures. The recommendations are clearly and persuasively
                    presented and justified; it is hard to escape the conclusion that the Assembly would be far more
                    effective if the proposals should be adopted.
            In spite of (or perhaps even because of) its extensive proposals for change, the report is basically
                    a conservative document. It aims at the preservation and strengthening of an historic institution,
                    and it envisions essentially the same role for the institution which the state's first
                    constitution-makers had in mind—a role for which its present structure and practices are
                    not very adequate. The recommendations are for substantial changes, but not radical ones. Combining
                    the two houses into one is not even considered, though joint interim committees and a joint
                    committee on rules are proposed. The commission specifically rejects the concept of a full-time
                    professional body in favor of the traditional citizen, part-time, representative assembly. To enable
                    such a body to deliberate effectively, the commission proposes annual sessions; one-year
                    appropriation bills; greatly enlarged and improved staff services in drafting, summarizing,
                    indexing, and publishing bills; reductions in the number of committees; full-time professional staff
                    for the important legislative committees during the sessions and interim committees between
                    sessions; modern mechanical office and secretarial services; and revised procedures and schedules.
            There is much in the report that would be just as valuable for 
                        Illinois
                    ' sister state of Indiana.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            York Willbern
         
         
         
            
               The Frontier Re-examined. Edited by John Francis McDermott. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. vii, 192. Notes, illustrations, index. $6.95.)
            The thirteen papers in this volume were given at a conference in 1965 at Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University, Edwardsville Campus. As the editor says, a complete survey of the frontier
                    was not the intent of the conferees. The nearest approach to any thematic continuity comes when some
                    of the authors measure Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner by their own findings and conclusions. The essayists suggest overlooked or
                    neglected areas for investigation or interpretations that need revision, or they survey and analyze
                    studies already made.
            Although the editor asserts in the foreward that to "attack" Turner was not the aim
                    of the papers, as author of the first chapter he charges that Turner was "ignorant
                    of" or "ignored" four basic matters: the prevalence of class distinction,
                    the dominating types of men, the prune importance of business, and the presence of amenities on the
                    very brink of the savage world. McDermott is making a case for the importance of the urban frontier.
            Merrill J. Mattes pleads for more research into the role of the frontier towns, especially the
                    "jumping-off places" along the Missouri River for the
                    overland transcontinental trails to 
                        Oregon
                     and 
                        California
                    . Although Turner and his disciples either ignored or unwittingly by-passed many
                    opportunities for research in transportation history, Oscar O. Winther reminds present historians of
                    their responsibility to rectify this situation because of their advantages of hindsight and of a
                    rich harvest of source materials.
            One of the least investigated phases of the American frontier is the territorial
                    process—the collection and preservation of the federal and territorial records as well as
                    research and writing. Oliver W. Holmes contends that Turner's generalizations on
                    territorial development are too smug for what closer study of the records reveals. Herman R. Friis
                    catalogs a sampling of rich cartographic and graphic records and pointedly indicates their sad
                    neglect on the part of historians, including Turner, and geographers. John C. Ewers makes a similar
                    case for pictorial documents which are sometimes "more significant" as historical
                    documents than written descriptions.
            Turner's clarion call to look to the frontier for the secrets of American history inspired
                    many able studies of the mountain men in the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. Neglected, however, are the fur companies behind the enterprises in the field.
                    Richard E. Oglesby focuses on the years 1820-1823 in 
                        St. Louis
                    , previously labeled as a quiet period because of the panic and depression of 1819.
                    Evidence proves quite the opposite. Anthropologist Preston Holder illuminates some unclear corners
                    of time with provocative archeological studies to determine the Indian view of the fur trade in the
                    early days of the Indian- European exchange of gifts, goods, and ideas.
            In other essays: Donald 
                        Jackson
                     examines Spanish reaction to the Lewis and 
                        Clark
                    , Thomas Freeman, and Zebulon 
                        Pike
                     expeditions as they penetrated  what Spain regarded
                    as her "interior provinces." Ralph E. Morrow reaffirms that religious
                    organizations did not participate creatively in the frontier process in the early nineteenth century
                    because they were too deeply involved with internal problems as emergent denominations. Joe B.
                    Frantz attempts to articulate a cowboy philosophy. It is evasive and elusive, but Frantz chooses to
                    continue his search even though the spoor is cold.
            A pair of studies considers fiction and the frontier. In the four pre-Civil War decades, according to
                    Jules Zanger, the image of the frontiersman in popular fiction changed from "savage
                    simplicity and primitive depravity" to one of a heroic, self-made, independent, and
                    democratic representative American. George R. Brooks analyzes the American frontier image in German
                    fiction, especially in the works of four early nineteenth-century writers who spent some time on the
                    frontier. It is curious that seventy-novel Karl May, who never saw the setting of his stories and
                    who is sometimes called the James Fenimore Cooper of Germany, is not even mentioned.
            Anyone interested in the American frontier should read this collection of papers.
            
                    
                  
                            Miami
                         University
                
            Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               Church and State in French Colonial 
                            Louisiana
                        : Policy and Politics to 1732. By Charles Edward O'Neill. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 315. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
            This study of church-state relations in the early days of French rule in 
                        Louisiana
                     offers a minutely detailed and thoroughly documented account of the interrelated
                    activities of civil and religious officials in France, New France, and the colony itself, which
                    formed part of the Diocese of Quebec. Although the two powers were separate, the state, in the
                    person of the king, had vital powers over the Gallican church; and for the church national ideals
                    were linked with religious ones in the ancient spirit of gesta Dei per Francos. As
                    a result, Father O'Neill concludes: 
                        Where one might have expected monolithic union, one found, in reality, diversity and
                            complexity. Along with collaboration there was conflict, or rather there was confrontation.
                            In colonial planning, ideals and expediency were rivals; in missiology, theology stood
                            vis-À-vis nationalism; on the general social scene, the design for a spiritual
                            New France was confronted by the lawless corruption that followed forced immigration into an
                            unstable polity (p. 283).
                    
            
            The church-state confrontation in Louisiana was even more marked than in New France. It was
                    complicated from the first by rivalries, which are perpetuated today by Franciscan and Jesuit
                    historians, among the secular priests and the religious orders; and the Jesuit author deserves much
                    credit for holding the balance so fairly amid the welter of conflicting interests and personalities
                    which produced more paper than progress in the colony. The 
                    ecclesiastical quarrels were complicated by factional disputes among the colonial officials and at
                    the court, which in the end had to settle both. If the religious element was indeed strong in French
                    colonial policy under Richelieu and Colbert, as the author perhaps too uncritically believes, the
                    missionary motive was not even mentioned in Antoine Crozat's charter of 1710 and figured
                    only in the fifty-third paragraph of the letters patent for John Law's Company of the West
                    in 1717. While some of the 
                        Louisiana
                     clergy were dedicated to the evangelization of the Indians and the maintenance of
                    morality in the French settlements, they received scant support from the court or companies for the
                    former, even though it was in the interest of trade, and found the latter an uphill task in a
                    society which Governor Cadillac characterized as "the piled up dregs of Canada…
                    without any subordination to Religion or to Government, steeped in vice" (p. 91).
            Father O'Neill concludes that the 
                        Louisiana
                     clergy never obtained the influence of the Canadian and that Louisiana never attained
                    the religious fervor of New France. The record of endless petty quarrels between rival lay-clerical
                    factions revealed in this book does much to explain the failure of the southern French colony to
                    achieve the same economic as well as spiritual development as the northern one.
            
                    University of Western 
                            Ontario
                        
               
                
            Mason Wade
         
         
            
               The Democratic Republicans of 
                            New York
                        : The Origins, 1763-1797. By Alfred F. Young. (Chapel
                    Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1967. Pp. xv, 636.
                    Notes, maps, tables. $12.25.)
            Professor Young has written an excellent study of political conflict and organization in 
                        New York
                     between 1777 and 1797. His years of diligent effort are revealed in the depth and
                    detail of this volume, which must be considered a major study of an important state during a
                    critical period. Many will disagree with certain conclusions, but no student of the early republic
                    will be able to ignore this book.
            Young has gone to the sources—newspapers, legislative records, personal correspondence,
                    pamphlets, records of political clubs, and even the Red Hook Society for the Detection of Horse
                    Thieves. Carl Becker's question, "Who shall rule at home?" is one of the
                    fundamental themes of this book, as Young describes the struggle of various groups for dominance in
                    revolutionary 
                        New York
                    . Unlike Linda De Pauw, Young sees a basic political continuity from the Revolution into
                    the 1790's. The conservative Whigs of 1776 became the Federalists of 1788 and the
                    Federalist party after 1790. The popular Whigs became followers of Governor George 
                        Clinton
                    , anti-Federalists and opponents of ratification in 1788, the anti-Federalist party
                    after 1790, then a "Republican interest" by 1793, and soon thereafter  Democratic Republicans. The 
                        New York
                     party was not a Jeffersonian group formed principally in response to national issues;
                    rather, it reflected state as well as national issues, with state issues dominant.
            Young's careful analysis of the complex interrelation of state and national political
                    questions is sometimes marred by his vague usage of the word party (pp. 208-209,
                    282, for example), and at times this failure blurs the continuity he finds in 
                        New York
                     politics. The author is at his best in analyzing the unexpected Federalist strength on
                    the Mohawk Valley frontier and in describing the changing allegiance of the
                    Manhattan mechanics. He is very much interested in organized groups, from the famous Democratic
                    Society to the obscure Society of Associated Teachers, established in 1794 to debate political
                    questions as well as the distribution of state school money.
            In twenty-six solidly documented chapters, Young réexamines twenty years of 
                        New York
                     politics and more than half a century of historical interpretation as well. The
                    Republicans did not prosper in the Empire State during these years, and this book explains why. 
                        New York
                     Federalists did not admire the common people, but they did seek votes. The
                    "liberalism" of the Democratic Republicans is exaggerated, for Young concedes that
                    many of them opposed abolition of slavery and other reforms which received Federalist support. This
                    lengthy volume is well written, but the author is overly fond of unnecessary direct quotations. The
                    bibliographical essay is a masterful review of an extensive literature. Young's treatment
                    of his subject far surpasses anything done previously. Those planning to write the political history
                    of other states would do well to make this book a model; it sets a high standard and deservedly
                    received an award from the Institute of Early American History.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        
               
                
            Patrick J. Furlong
         
         
            
               The 1826 Journal of John James Audubon. Transcribed with an Introduction and
                    Notes by Alice Ford. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xii, 409. Notes, illustrations, index. $6.95.)
            This is the definitive edition of the diary kept by John James Audubon during those months in 1826
                    when he left 
                        Louisiana
                     for England and Scotland in search of a publisher for his drawings of The
                        Birds of America. Parts of the Journal were edited and published in an
                    earlier work on the life of Audubon, but only in this scholarly edition by Alice Ford do we have
                    most of the original entries reassembled in original form and language and supplemented by drawings
                    made at the time.
            Alice Ford is our principal authority on the life and work of Audubon. She is the author of a
                    definitive biography of Audubon (1964) and has edited Audubon's Animals
                    (1951), Audubon's Butterflies (1952), and Bird Biographies
                        by John James Audubon (1957). These books cumulate to an impressive contribution to art, to
                    natural history, and to the social history  of nineteenth-century
                    America. The greater part of the Journal of 1826, however, was written in England
                    and Scotland. Apart from the interest a reader may have in Audubon's efforts to publish his
                    drawings in almost life size, the Journal provides a portrait of life among the
                    upper classes of British society at the beginning of the second quarter of the nineteenth century.
                    And it contains profiles of notable men and women whom Audubon met and saw with the perceptive eye
                    of an artist. The economist John R. McCulloch, the critic and writer Francis Jeffrey, merchant and
                    civic reformer William Rathbone IV of Liverpool and members of his family, the historian William
                    Roscoe, and Lord Stanley (Earl of Derby) are among the many members of British society whom Audubon
                    described.
            Audubon had a curious trait, often apparently in all innocence, of being unable to distinguish fact
                    from fancy. With respect to details of his own early life he was frequently a harmless but, to the
                    scholar, an annoying prevaricator. Miss Ford has identified and often clarified these slips between
                    fact and fiction. Few of these lapses, however, pertain to the Journal of 1826.
            To the social historian and the student of Anglo-American relationships, the Journal affords a
                    valuable documentary case of friendships and interactions between Britons and
                    Americans—in business, natural science, and scholarship in the early nineteenth century.
                    Audubon's wife (Lucy Bakewell) had many well-placed relatives in England, and Audubon was
                    himself an unusually interesting personality. But these do not appear to have been the factors that
                    were of greatest assistance to his mission. There is evidence throughout the Journal of a great interest in America among the British upper classes and in the notable
                    artistic achievement in natural history represented by Audubon's portraits of birds and
                    animals. Without this interest and sympathy, expressed in tangible support, the monumental Birds of America might never have been more than a rare and highly perishable set
                    of drawings; and its influence on American attitudes toward nature could never have reached the
                    extent permitted by the printed reproduction.
            The volume concludes with a set of letters by Audubon written during the period of the Journal and with letters of introduction written on his behalf by Henry Clay, Vincent
                    Nolte, Thomas Stewart Traill, and others. The book is published with the high-quality design and
                    typography that distinguishes the work of the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Lynton K. Caldwell
         
         
            
               The 
                            Oregon
                         Question: Essays in Anglo-American Diplomacy and Politics. By Frederick Merk. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xiv, 427. Map, notes, index. $7.95.)
            Samuel Flagg Bemis, the distinguished scholar of American diplomacy, used to tell his graduate
                    students that Frederick Merk's magnificent investigations of the 
                        Oregon
                     Question, which appeared over many years in articles  and a monograph, were all "chapters in search of a book." Merk, he used to say,
                    should bring these materials together, for the 
                        Harvard
                     historian had a great theme and clearly was its master. This recourse has now been
                    taken in the present volume which contains the collected essays together with the monograph from the 
                        Harvard
                     series—Albert Gallatin and the 
                            Oregon
                         Problem—and four new essays. It is gratifying indeed to see how all
                    these researches have fitted together. The book is definitive, if one may use an overworked word.
            Merk traces the 
                        Oregon
                     Problem beginning with the explorations of Captain Robert Gray in 1792. Serious
                    American claims began with Gray's discovery of the Columbia River. The
                    area in dispute—generally called 
                        Oregon
                    —gradually narrowed to the vast stretch of land between the present- day
                    upper boundary of 
                        California
                    , the forty-second parallel, and the present-day southern boundary of the Alaskan
                    panhandle, the line of "fifty-four-forty." There was not much Anglo-American
                    argument over the land below the 
                        Columbia
                    , which was deemed probably American, and that above the forty-ninth parallel, which
                    American negotiators usually considered British. The essence of the problem was the land to the
                    north and west of the Columbia River, the present-day western two-thirds of the
                    state of 
                        Washington
                    . The British sought this latter territory, and the Americans repeatedly offered the
                    forty-ninth parallel, in 1818, 1824, 1826–1827, and 1845. When extremists in the United
                    States agitated for "All 
                        Oregon
                    " to the southern boundary of Alaska, President James K. Polk in
                    1845–1846 seemed at first to join them; but he backed off and took the forty-ninth
                    parallel, almost the same line proposed by Albert Gallatin and Richard 
                        Rush
                     in the negotiations of 1818.
            The "fifty-four-forty men" were enraged at the prospect of a compromise, so they
                    thought, in 
                        Oregon
                    ; and not least of the President's critics was Senator Edward A. Hannegan of
                    Indiana. In 1846 the senator already was addicted to alcohol, which problem later proved his
                    complete undoing; and it may be that its baleful influence drove him into the following remarks
                    about Polk: 
                        So long as one human eye remains to linger on the page of history, the story of his abasement
                            will be read, sending him and his name together to an infamy so profound, a damnation so
                            deep, that the hand of resurrection will never be able to drag him forth. He who is a
                            traitor to his country, can never have forgiveness of God, and cannot ask mercy of
                            man…. I have only to add, that so far as the whole tone, spirit and meaning of
                            the remarks of the Senator… are concerned if they speak the language of James K.
                            Polk, James K. Polk has spoken words of falsehood, and with the tongue of a serpent (p.
                            382).
                    
            
            It was an intricate negotiation, as full as its oratory; and the details are impossible to set out in
                    a review. They are, though, the sort of details which will engross students of history. (They are
                    not of course for the reportedly new students of history who desire to master the Big Ideas and not
                    the details—without which the Big Ideas are invisible.) Merk's fascination with
                    his grand subject shines through these pages.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert H. Ferrell
         
         
         
            
               The Diary of James A. Garfield, 1848–1874. Two volumes. Edited with
                    an Introduction by Harry James 
                        Brown
                     and Frederick D. Williams. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1967. Vol. I: Pp. Ixx, 496. Vol. II: Pp. 450. Illustrations,
                    notes, appendix, indices. $30.00 per set.)
            The edited papers and diaries of important American leaders are being published in generous fashion,
                    and the first two of four projected volumes of the diaries of James A. Garfield are a welcome
                    addition to such scholarly efforts. Not all of the entries included were in Garfield's
                    handwriting, and the editors have taken care to indicate the role played by a part-time secretary,
                    George U. Rose.
            The editors' sixty-page introduction analyzes carefully the diaries' chief
                    contributions to an understanding of the religious, social, economic, educational, and political
                    life of nineteenth-century America. Garfield was a rather introspective person whose comments on his
                    own motives and efforts are often very revealing. His early commitment and his lifelong attachment
                    to the Disciples of Christ are thoroughly indicated; though, with his years at Williams College and
                    his entry into sophisticated 
                        Washington
                     society, a more ecumenical spirit developed. He, furthermore, became increasingly
                    distressed by "stupid" sermons from many pulpits.
            As a congressman Garfield was caught up in the Credit Mobilier and Salary Grab scandals, and he
                    suffered deep distress from the criticisms of his actions. The editors conclude that, in regard to
                    the Credit Mobilier affair, "his real offense was that he denied to the House investigating
                    committee that he had either agreed to take the stock or received a dividend" (I, xlvi).
            The notes have been prepared in meticulous fashion and offer a mine of information relating to the
                    third quarter of the nineteenth century and in particular to the Western Reserve of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.
            Any scholar realizes the difficulty of avoiding minor errors, a few of which may be noted. Jacob D.
                    Cox was not "of 
                        Cincinnati
                    " in 1860 (I, 348), for he located there after his term as governor ended in
                    1867. It is not accurate to state that in 1867 in 
                        Ohio
                     "the customary Republican majority in the legislature nearly
                    disappeared" (I, 429), for Democratic control meant the retirement of the arch-Republican,
                    Benjamin Wade, from the United States Senate. Congresswoman Frances Payne Bolton is not a niece of
                    Senator Henry B. Payne (II, 242), but a granddaughter. The pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
                    in Washington was Byron (not Bryon) Sunderland (II, 301).
            In a few cases significant details seem to have been overlooked. The editors point out that in 1852,
                    Mary Hubbell, who for a time was one of Garfield's romantic interests, addressed him as
                    "Leo" because a phrenologist had associated him with the constellation, Leo (I,
                    147). But Miss Hubbell had a keen sense of humor, and she may have had in mind a second reason for
                    the appellation, since Garfield had recently played an important role, that  of Pope Leo X, in a college colloquy (I, 142). It is indicated that in
                    1858 Garfield was offered a position as head of the "Hopedale School" (I, 330). It
                    might have been pointed out that this was to be for decades one of the leading normal schools in 
                        Ohio
                     and that the position was taken by Garfield's former mentor and colleague,
                    Amos S. Hayden. (See Roscoe H. Eckelberry, "The McNeely Normal School and Hopedale Normal
                    College," 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, XL, 86–119.) Charles
                    Sanders Peirce is identified as "an assistant in the Coast Survey,
                    1872–1884" (II, 116), but no mention is made of the fact that he was one who
                    laid the foundations for the later pragmatic philosophy of William James and John Dewey. It is
                    recorded that Garfield dined in 1873 with "Ben Holladay of 
                        California
                    " (II, 152), but it is not indicated that he was the well-known founder of the
                    noted "Holladay's Overland Stage." The editors might also have corrected
                    Garfield's error in stating that Salmon P. Chase was chosen to the United States Senate in
                    1848 (II, 330); actually it was February, 1849.
            Typographical confusion is found in misplaced lines in I, 356; II, 116; and II, 282. The volumes,
                    however, will prove indispensable to any scholar dealing in depth with the political, social, and
                    cultural life of the United States during the generation prior to 1875.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University
                
            Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
            
               Gold 
                            Rush
                         Diary: Being the Journal of Elisha Douglass Perkins on the Overland Trail in the
                        Spring and Summer of 1849. Edited by Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xxv, 206. Illustrations, notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $8.75.)
            
               Ho! For the Gold Fields: Northern Overland Wagon Trains of the 1860s. Edited by
                    Helen McCann White. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1966. Pp. viii, 289. Notes, maps, illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $8.50.)
            Like the steady flow of automobile traffic moving west on Highways 40 and 50, the Gold 
                        Rush
                     literature continues to roll off the nation's presses. And just as these
                    highways have become better surfaced, broader, and steadily improved to carry the volume of
                    speeeding traffic, so have the studies dealing with America's most romantic migration
                    continued to improve. Proof of this is found in the recent books edited by University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Professor Thomas D. Clark and Helen McCann White, 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society staff member. Each work has been meticulously researched. The
                    documentation does not merely better explain the respective contents and the multitude of sources
                    employed but also supplies extended assistance to researchers pursuing the same historical trails.
            Most striking of the advances now offered readers of argonaut experiences are the books'
                    notes and superlative maps detailing the westward march. For 
                    example, the Elisha Douglass Perkins overland record is equipped with charts that precisely fix each
                    day's length of travel. Along with such standard 
                        California
                     trail classics as those penned by Irene Paden and Archer B. Hulbert, teachers will
                    henceforth wish to recommend 
                        Clark
                    's handsomely equipped account as a preliminary base for those tracking prairie
                    schooner history.
            Who in fact was Elisha Douglass Perkins, and what does his diary add to our knowledge of the widely
                    chronicled "forty-niner"? Ohioan Perkins was descended from six generations of
                    Yankee forebears. This twenty-six-year-old optimist, apparently the leader of the "Marietta
                    Gold Hunters," has left us both a beautifully written and zestful journal. Of course he was
                    fascinated by those same passing scenes which intrigued other sojourners. Perkins, like most, had
                    only separated himself from his eastern hearthside to scoop up the yellow stuff on the Pacific
                    Slope, then to return to his Ohio Valley home. His last entry tells us what
                    actually occurred. "During the late pleasant weather John and myself… have made
                    something over 100 dollars—better than nothing, though small wages" (p. 154).
                    The account terminates here. Editor 
                        Clark
                    , however, has carried Perkins' career to its conclusion—death
                    aboard a wharf boat on the 
                        Sacramento
                     waterfront in December, 1852.
            It is sad that the diarist, rich with recollections and maybe even capital, was never able to rejoin
                    his wife. However, as his vividly penned record makes clear, he had lived the great adventure.
            
                    What would my wife say to see me with a cup of mud slime & water to my lips holding my
                        breath shutting my eyes while "putting it down!" Yet so far from injured by
                        such drinks, we actually grow fat upon it! or upon something else, for one thing is evident we
                        are improving in bodily condition. The exercise in the open air, plain food & good
                        appetites no doubt will make men of us before the trip is over (p. 30).
                
            
               
                        Clark
                     believes that Perkins' written testimony conveys "no hint on his part
                    that it involved a mystique" (p. xxiv). Yet in the appendix, where the editor has
                    obligingly supplied other contemporary Buckeye data, something more than an individual quest for a
                    lucky strike is sensed. From the April 26, 1849, 
                        Ohio
                    
                    Intelligencer
                    
                        Clark
                     includes the following: "If 
                        California
                     can be settled by such men as make a large majority of this company,
                    its population will compare well with that of the other states of the 
                        Union
                    " (p. 159). Albeit, a May 23, 1850, clipping pulsates with what motivated most
                    of the gold seekers: 
                        Among the Missourians are a large number of late volunteers to the Mexican war….
                            Our "Army of Occupation" and Army of Invasion are well represented from
                            every state. The soldiers were paid off in about the right time for them to
                            start;—having just returned from one adventure of danger and blood they were
                            ready to engage in another for gold (p. 187).
                    
            
            Helen M. White's study leaves little doubt that for many argonauts of the decade of the
                    1860's blood and gold had not lost its lure. Mrs. White has laid bare a chapter of
                    migration history heretofore largely uncovered: the overland trek of Minnesotans into 
                        Montana
                     and the Great Northwest during  and shortly after
                    the Civil War. She has not only brought together documents related to the various Fisk and Holmes
                    expeditions of those years, but after an assiduous search the compiler has collected extensive wagon
                    train rosters for these 
                        Minnesota
                    -launched trains. Genealogical societies will mine her information for years to come.
            Much of this collection is built around a nineteenth-century western prototype, James Liberty Fisk.
                    Fisk is almost too much the stereotype to be believed. However, as one document after another makes
                    patently clear, this dreamy-eyed frontier dynamo was no abstraction. Thanks to Mrs. White, James
                    Liberty and the three Fisk brothers have now obtained the historical recognition too long denied
                    them. Despite his effervescent, "My spirit never droops" (p. 161), James Fisk
                    certainly suffered his share of pioneer oscillations. With a middle name like
                    "Liberty" Fisk had to be con troversial. Few Northwest Indian episodes received
                    more unsavory notoriety than the deliberate strychnine poisoning of two dozen Sioux with which he
                    was connected. Actually he appears considerably more prudent than many of his wagon captain
                    contemporaries. To eager but ill-prepared 
                        Minnesota
                     gold seekers he counseled, "None who have homes and a
                    reasonable means of livelihood should be incited by big stories, however true they may be, to
                    emigrate to far off territories after a phantom fortune" (p. 11). And the manner in which
                    he armed one expedition with a twelve-pound mountain howitzer, advanced them into hostile country,
                    and held the wagons together in the face of repeated attacks by Sioux invites Hollywood's
                    prevaricators to turn to nonfiction copy.
            Most important, Mrs. White has compiled a great mass of social history dealing with the pioneers of
                    the 1860's. Her study is larded with information on their hopes, their daily activities,
                    and even the tools with which they mastered their environment. The Minnesotan's
                    achievement, and it took twenty years to amass, is unquestionaby the best single summation of the
                    northern overland wagon trains during the decade of the 1860's.
            
                    San Jose State College
                
            Ted C. Hinckley
         
         
            
               "Black Jack:" John A. Logan and Southern 
                            Illinois
                         in the Civil War Era. By James P. Jones. 
                        Florida
                     State University Studies, No. 51. (Tallahassee: The 
                        Florida
                     State University, 1967. Pp. xvii, 314. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $8.50.)
            The ubiquitous John A. Logan, 
                        Illinois
                     congressman and Civil War general, has often been portrayed as an opportunist of the
                    deepest dye. Like many others of his political generation who were caught up in the maelstrom of
                    sectional conflict and war, Logan was converted from an outspoken Democrat to a Radical Republican.
                    As a member of the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature  in the 1850's, he authored
                    that state's Negro exclusion law; yet, by the end of the war he had become a champion of
                    abolition. The story of Logan's conversion and the motives behind it provide a theme for
                    this book. An opportunist Logan undoubtedly was; but there was a good deal more integrity in the man
                    than he has been given credit for, as this generally sympathetic portrait reveals. A resident of the
                    pro-southern counties of 
                        Illinois
                    ' "Egypt," Logan mirrored the divided allegiances of his
                    district; but he also exerted considerable influence on it. Southern 
                        Illinois
                    ' devotion to the 
                        Union
                     during the war may be traced in large measure to his efforts.
            Perhaps the most puzzling period in Logan's career has been the crucial months of the
                    secession crisis. A follower of Douglas and an advocate of compromise, Logan was widely reported to
                    have counselled secession, only to make a complete about-face later when he declared his support to
                    the government and joined the 
                        Union
                     army. Jones, in an able and well-documented chapter, has finally set the record
                    straight. Far from being a secessionist, Logan merely reflected the predicament of many Douglas
                    followers. Douglas' urgent support of the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration following Sumter was more than they could immediately appreciate. After
                    months of soul searching, some Douglasites in 
                        Illinois
                    , like William A. Richardson, became Peace Democrats; others, like Logan, chose the path
                    of 
                        Union
                     and became War Democrats. Resigning his congresisonal seat, he took the field as one of 
                        Lincoln
                    's abler political generals and emerged from the war as one of 
                        Illinois
                    ' great war heroes. Undoubtedly, the realities of the postwar political
                    situation as well as the popularity he had achieved in the war contributed to his affiliation
                    ultimately with the Radical Republicans, but Jones also credits Logan with deeper motivations.
            Jones has not chosen to produce a full-scale biography but rather has concentrated on
                    Logan's immediate prewar and wartime record, "an attempt to present a man of
                    divided loyalties leading an equally divided section in days of national crisis" (p. xvi).
                    In doing so, he has produced a first-rate study. He has combined a painstaking and critical
                    examination of a wide range of sources with a persuasive analysis of a most difficult figure during
                    an equally difficult period. The story of Logan's role in the military campaigns of the
                    war—from the effort to clear the Mississippi Valley of Confederate
                    resistance to the sweep through the Carolinas—to which most of the book is devoted is
                    detailed with clarity and suspense. A native Floridian, Jones has added significantly to the story
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     in the Civil War as well as to the impact which the war had on the career of one
                    important professional politician.
            
                    University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
                
            Robert W. Johannsen
         
         
         
            
               Black 
                            Chicago
                        : The Making of a Negro Ghetto, 1890-1920. By Allan H. Spear. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xvii, 254. Notes, tables, maps, illustrations, note on sources, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The development of 
                        Chicago
                    's black ghetto was not simply a physical phenomenon brought about by the huge
                    Negro migration during the era of the First World War. Nor did this migration act as the catalyst
                    which caused 
                        Chicago
                    's Negro leaders to discard their integrationist views in favor of the dream of
                    a self-sustaining "Black Metropolis." In Black 
                            Chicago
                        
               , Allan H. Spear contends that Chicago's Negro ghetto developed
                    gradually, stimulated by the population shifts of the war years, but resulting primarily from white
                    hostility toward the Negro's quest for better jobs and decent housing.
            Spear traces the growth of 
                        Chicago
                    's Negro population from the 1890's, before the ghetto really
                    appeared. Though concentrated on the south and west sides, Negroes comprised more than 10 per cent
                    of only two wards in 1900 and as late as 1910 were less highly segregated from native whites than
                    were Italian immigrants. After the turn of the century, efforts by Negroes to move into all white
                    sections met with increasing hostility, and they were forced to find housing within areas partly
                    inhabited by Negroes. The ghetto began to take shape, spreading over 
                        Chicago
                    's south side as black immigrants poured in from the South and white residents
                    fled to segregated sections of the city. Segregation did not solve the city's problems; it
                    exacerbated them. Separation bred continuing suspicion and hatred, which in turn led to racial
                    violence. The 
                        Chicago
                     race riot of 1919 was the ultimate result of white racism and "destroyed
                    whatever hope remained for a peacefully integrated city" (p. 221).
            Paralleling this population shift was a change in the direction of Negro thought. During periods of
                    increased hostility the Negro American has consistently turned to a philosophy of self-help, be it
                    the mild, accommodating version advanced by Booker T. Washington or the militant cry of
                    "Black Power." Prior to 1900 
                        Chicago
                    's Negro leaders were committed to a policy of total integration; but as the
                    ghetto took shape and white hostility mounted, Negro businesses emerged to serve the growing black
                    population. These new Negro businessmen, while still demanding equal rights for Negroes, focused
                    their efforts on building a strong black community, politically powerful and economically
                    self-sufficient. But 
                        Chicago
                    's Negroes possessed neither the experience nor the resources to create a
                    viable community of their own, and "Black Metropolis" proved to be "a
                    woefully inadequate, vastly inferior version of White 
                        Chicago
                    " (p. 228).
            Much of Black 
                            Chicago
                        
                has a familiar ring to it: citizens in white areas organizing to resist Negro
                    encroachment; Negroes working at menial, low paying jobs with little opportunity for advancement;
                    and white politicians courting the Negro vote when running for office and perpetuating slum
                    conditions while serving in office. Indeed, what is most striking about Black 
                            Chicago
                        
                is the similarity that exists between conditions and attitudes in 
                    
                        Chicago
                     fifty years ago and today. The basic problems—jobs, housing, and race
                    prejudice—remain relatively unchanged.
            
               Black 
                            Chicago
                        
                is a very good book. The author's research is sound, his prose terse
                    and effective, and his conclusions illuminating. Because this book is written at a time when black
                    ghettoes all over the country are exploding in outbreaks of racial violence, this is also a very
                    important book. Spear's urgent message is that oppressive conditions in the Negro ghetto
                    are real, and they have existed too long. The period of time for white America to do something about
                    them is running out.
            
                    Tougaloo College
                
            John A. Dittmer
         
         
            
               Return to Winesburg: Selections from Four Years of Writing for a Country
                    Newspaper. By Sherwood Anderson. Edited with an Introduction by Ray Lewis White.
                        (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xi, 223. Notes, illustration, selected bibliography.
                    $5.95.)
            Sherwood Anderson's career was often marked by flamboyant attempts to exorcise frustrations
                    by escapes into over-simplification. Such attempts include, at thirty-six abandoning his family and
                    a solvent business in 
                        Ohio
                     for creative release among 
                        Chicago
                     artists and writers; his four marriages and attendant divorces; a streamlined
                    Freudianism as a direct route to the secrets of human problems; flirting with sentimentalized
                    Marxism for social reform; and typically, as demonstrated in this new and valuable anthology, his
                    flight in 1925 from pressures of the city and literary success to country quiet in southwest 
                        Virginia
                     and a try at rural journalism.
            In October, 1927, Anderson bought a printing business in 
                  Marion, Virginia
               , together with
                    its rival weeklies, one Democrat, one Republican. Caught up in the excitement of what seemed simpler
                    and more natural writing and in an experiment that hinted of redemption for a decadent American
                    press, he poured all his professional energies for a time into editing his two papers. Then, with
                    complexities multiplying as usual, he turned most of the labor over to his son and fled back to his
                    major world of fiction, general writing, and lecturing.
            Of this interim journalism only the items Anderson chose for his unsuccessful Hello
                        Towns! (1929) have been generally available. Now, Return to Winesburg
                    brings a balanced, well-edited sampling of eighty-seven pieces from November, 1927, through
                    December, 1931. They provide a coverage that will be very useful to both biographer and critic.
            Anderson obviously reveled in the variety his papers gave him. Early locals show him getting
                    acquainted, cultivating a chatty, folksy manner, and inevitably doing more editorializing than
                    straight reporting of Kiwanis meetings and courthouse business. In a revered American humor
                    tradition, he creates a fictional Buck Fever who writes rustic dialect letters to the editor. Better
                    worked are sketches of the countryside, revealing the sensitive impressionism  of a frustrated landscape painter and recalling fine moments in
                    Anderson's best short stories. Other pieces report sorties to 
                        Washington
                     and elsewhere in the outside world.
            To students of the man, especially interesting are the various evidences of Anderson's
                    intense involvement with this journalistic experience. Here was a new field, he insisted, that
                    demanded the best brains in the country: From it could come a fresh expression of popular will that
                    would counter the standardizing tyranny of cities, industrialism, and big business.
            There is much more—nothing, however, that reaches the stature of Winesburg, 
                            Ohio
                        
                (1919) or of the author's great tales and various autobiographical
                    chapters. Style ranges characteristically from best to worst. Childlike sentences and
                    ellipses—often intensely appealing—alternate with sloppy verbosity. But all of
                    it lives. Highest notch is reached, for this reviewer at least, in a few memorably indignant
                    paragraphs of April 12, 1928, reporting the unspeakable conditions of the men's cages in
                    the county jail. In moments like these one meets the man that helped give direction to the
                    generation of Hemingway and Faulkner.
            
                    Otterbein College
                
            Robert Price
         
         
            
               As We Saw the Thirties: Essays on the Social and Political Movements of a
                    Decade. Edited by Rita James Simon. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. 253. Notes. $6.50.)
            In the past two decades oral history projects have provided one of the most encouraging new
                    developments in the study of twentieth-century United States history. By making available important
                    data which otherwise might be lost to posterity, these programs in many cases have produced
                    important source materials. The volume edited by sociologist Rita James Simon is another example of
                    oral history. She invited eight individuals who played an active role in social and political
                    movements of the 1930's to describe their experiences. In particular, Professor Simon asked
                    them to discuss their purposes and goals, their followers, and their successes and failures. The
                    resulting lectures were given between October, 1965, and April, 1966, at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     where they were also transcribed. Together with brief introductions they constitute the
                    substance of this book.
            If not all of the invited participants were well known, yet all were active in their respective
                    causes. 
                        Norman
                     Thomas, Earl Browder, Gerald L. K. Smith, 
                        Granville
                     Hicks, and former United States Senator Burton K. Wheeler need no introduction. On the
                    other hand, A. J. Muste (pacifist), Max Schachtman (founder of the American Trotskyist movement),
                    and Hal Draper (an organizer of the American Youth Congress in 1934) are more obscure. Each,
                    however, receives equal space.
            Thomas comments on the Socialist view of the United States in the Roosevelt era; Browder explains the
                    perspective of American Communists; and Schachtman supplies a Trotskyist appraisal. Smith recalls
                    Huey Long's  crusade; Muste speaks of labor struggles;
                    Draper dwells on student movements; and Wheeler focuses on his years in the Senate during the New
                    Deal. Hicks confines his remarks to writers of the decade.
            The editing of the volume reveals at least three weaknesses. Mrs. Simon has reproduced the lectures
                    as they were presented and has not provided needed explanatory footnotes to illuminate or correct
                    casual or offhand comments by the visitors. Nor do the brief introductions to each talk help readers
                    to place a particular speaker in historical context. In her introductory remarks concerning Smith,
                    for example, the editor curiously omits any mention of Smith's long career as one of
                    America's most rabid anti-semites. Surely his great admiration of Nazi genocide programs is
                    relevant to an understanding of his views on social justice. Finally, the conceptual framework of
                    the book is very loose. Although Mrs. Simon posed some worthwhile questions for her guests, the
                    participants did not consistently use her frame of reference. Indeed, they display a propensity to
                    ramble.
            The contribution of this work to an understanding of the 1930's is not profound. With the
                    exception of discussions by Browder and Schachtman the essays tend to be superficial. They add
                    little to what is already known, whether fact or insight. In the vast literature about the New Deal
                    this book will take its place as a collection of brief reminiscences.
            
                    University of 
                            New Mexico
                        
               
                
            Gerald D. Nash
         
         
            Below is the author's reply to the review of History of the United States
                        Rubber Company: A Case Study in Corporation Management ([
                        Bloomington
                    ]: Bureau of Business Research, Indiana University, 1966), found in the December, 1967,
                    issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. The reviewer, Jack J. Detzler, Saint Mary's
                    College, was given an opportunity to respond but did not do so.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    January 23, 1968
                                
                        Dear Editor:
                        On pages 322-23 of the December, 1967, issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                                        History there is a review of the History of the United States
                                        Rubber Company. The critical judgments of the reviewer appear to have been
                                    formed from the viewpoint of the general reading public. However, as indicated in
                                    the Foreword and more specifically in the Introduction, this work was designed as a
                                    case study in corporation management, primarily for use in a graduate course in
                                    business administration. The assignment to develop such a study determined the
                                    choice and organization of the material.
                        From the general reader's viewpoint, proportion may seem
                                    "askew," as it did to the reviewer. For example, much more space
                                    has been taken in detailed discussion of financial operations than would be
                                    considered advisable in the usual business history. Serious financial problems
                                    dominated the  policies and actions approved by
                                    the corporation's management during many years. After the First World War
                                    almost every other major rubber company underwent either receivership or some other
                                    form of financial reversal and reorganization. United States Rubber survived only
                                    after massive infusion of capital by the du Ponts, who also supplied sorely needed
                                    administrative acumen at a crucial time.
                        Which treatment of the steps taken by management to meet the various situations would
                                    be more helpful to students? A brief statement that certain obligations had been
                                    refunded on such a day? or a detailed explanation of the manner in which the
                                    operation had been carried out? Members of the faculty of the Graduate School of
                                    Business, Indiana University, who were consulted, unhesitatingly chose the more
                                    detailed analysis.
                        There are other instances in the narrative where the needs of the advanced student
                                    have dictated what might well be considered disproportionate elaboration of subjects
                                    of lesser interest to the general reader. The reviewer deplored the absence of
                                    historical perspective. The aim was to present each decision or action by management
                                    in the light of such knowledge as the executive may be presumed to have had readily
                                    available at the time those decisions or actions occurred. They did not possess the
                                    advantage of knowing what has since transpired. Similarly, executives now
                                    responsible for decision- making must act without benefit of the hindsight of 1969
                                    or the 1970's, to say nothing of that clarity of perspective which may have
                                    become commonplace by the year 2000.
                        Graduate students for whom this study is designed may be expected, and properly so,
                                    to have acquired previously a good working knowledge of the basic elements of our
                                    country's industrial growth. Therefore no space has been allotted for
                                    relating many aspects of that growth. The discussion of external developments,
                                    industrial, economic, technical, political, and so on, has been focused instead on
                                    those factors which most significantly influenced the corporation's
                                    progress. This highly selective approach made it possible to deal with them in
                                    sufficient depth.
                        The reviewer concluded with the statement that "questions tumble endlessly
                                    into the reader's mind." He also indicated that "the
                                    'why' of specific company actions" should have been
                                    spelled out. In view of the precise purpose of the history, what he has judged to be
                                    shortcomings actually seem to enhance the merit of the work. Since the reviewer had
                                    these reactions, participants in a doctoral seminar or other course in business
                                    administration may find the account equally provocative.
                        The author makes no claim for grammatical perfection. He has been grateful for the
                                    capable assistance faithfully rendered over a period of several months by the
                                    professional editorial staff of the Bureau of Business Research, Graduate School of
                                    Business, Indiana University. Its members deserve much credit for the quality of the
                                    final production.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    [Signed] Glenn D. Babcock
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
   
