
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 100, Issue 4, pages 291-402. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:100+issue:4+year:2004&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            EDITOR'S NOTE
            With the close of 2004, the IMH prepares to enter its centennial year. Such occasions are, at one
                    level, unremarkable—the work of historians, educators, genealogists, and others seeking
                    to make sense of the past continues from one year to the next, regardless of the season.
            In other ways, anniversaries are surprisingly effective catalysts, both for fresh historical research
                    and for public awareness of its results. The paired bicentennials of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase and the subsequent explorations of Lewis and Clark, for example, have
                    occasioned a long series of public events, museum exhibitions, and—not
                    least—new literature over the last two years. For this issue, we have commissioned two
                    review essays, one from Western historian Joseph Porter and the other from former IMH editor Bernard
                    Sheehan, assessing some of that new material in light of a long tradition of historical writing.
                    Alongside these essays, historian Robert Ferrell marks the passage of another kind of cyclical
                    event—the presidential election season—with his thoughts on the art of writing
                    presidential biography. In the lead article, Edward Frantz takes on a neglected moment in the career
                    of one American president, Benjamin Harrison, whose efforts at shoring up sectional support for his
                    1892 campaign presage the grueling drive for "swing states" that we have seen in
                    the 2004 campaign.
            For our own purposes, the coming anniversary of this journal provides an occasion to take stock of
                    what the IMH can and should do for its readers. Central to that question is our continued mission of
                    providing you with original, interesting historical writing that invites new understanding of this
                    state and its environs. Added to that goal, we seek to take advantage of new media and to reach new
                    audiences. Our Indiana Archives series—here represented by a look at collections related
                    to African  American history—reaches out to students
                    and scholars alike, offering new sources for research. Our widely expanded website (http://www.
                    indiana.edu/~imaghist) offers a growing number of past IMH articles and historical documents
                    (including all of the Indiana Archives series). Starting next year, the website will also feature a
                    special section dedicated to helping Indiana teachers develop lesson plans related to the
                    state's history. Finally, I am pleased to announce that IMH subscribers can now find the
                    full text of the journal online at yet another convenient site: The History Cooperative
                    (http://www.historycooperative.org), one of the most widely used historical–journal
                    websites. In this introductory period, anyone visiting the site may access the IMH. Beginning next
                    year, access will be limited to you as IMH subscribers. You will also enjoy reduced–fee
                    access to online issues of other well–known journals, such as the Journal of
                        American History and the American Historical Review, which are found on
                    the site.
            All of this comes at a cost—and this is where I appeal to you as readers to help us
                    rededicate ourselves to our mission on this eve of our 100th year. Enclosed with this issue you will
                    find an envelope, addressed to Indiana University and designed to contain your voluntary,
                    tax–deductible contribution to our IMH Second–Century Fund.
            How is our money spent? As in the past, the Indiana Historical Society continues to underwrite the
                    cost of printing and mailing the journal to its members, who receive the IMH as a benefit of
                    membership. Indiana University supplies our office space and expenses, as well as staff salaries.
                    But as IU's budget tightens and even shrinks, we lack critical resources for the kinds of
                    special initiatives that will keep the IMH strong in years to come. The Second–Century
                    Fund supports IU in funding these initiatives. It will allow us to enhance our online presence, to
                    reach out to school teachers and other audiences, to provide IU students with internships and
                    training, and to commission special articles and issues.
            Your support will help us to ensure this journal's continued success for another 100 years.
                    I thank you for considering a contribution, and I hope you will not hesitate to let me know how we
                    can make the IMH useful, interesting, and enjoyable—for you and for future generations of
                    readers.
         
         
         
            A March of Triumph?
            Benjamin Harrison's Southern Tour and the Limits of Racial and Regional Reconciliation
            EDWARD FRANTZ
            On April 17, 1891, Mayor Lucas Clapp of 
                  Memphis,
                            Tennessee
               , stood at a dais to introduce
                    President Benjamin Harrison. The president was in the midst of a nationwide whistlestop tour. He had
                    already spent three days in the South, stopping quickly in a succession of towns to deliver a speech
                    before moving on. Most of the introductions that Harrison received during these speeches were bland
                    boilerplate material. As a result, the words that Clapp uttered were particularly memorable. He
                    lauded his fellow white southerners as "lovers of justice and equal rights," and
                    asserted "that in dealing with the gravest and most perplexing social and political problem
                    that has ever confronted a community or a people, it is our purpose and our habit to be just and
                    lawabiding." But Clapp, a southern Democrat, could not resist the urge to make a
                    pas– 
                  Edward Frantz is an assistant professor of history at the University of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , where he teaches a range of courses in African American and American history.
                            He is currently working on a book manuscript explaining the interaction of race, region, and
                            Republicanism since the Civil War. The author would like to thank Abby Frantz, Greg Bond,
                            Tony Gaughan, John Cooper, James Baughman, William Cronon, Stanley Schultz, Stephen
                            Kantrowitz, Alexander Shashko, Brett Barker, and Craig Werner, as well as the anonymous
                            reviewer for the Indiana Magazine of History for their help on this
                            article and the larger subject matter.
               
                     sionate partisan plea at the northern Republican's
                    expense. Speaking on behalf of white Memphians, he noted that there was "a paramount aim
                    and purpose with us to guard our social purity, preserve our civilization and maintain Caucasian
                    prestige and supremacy."1
            
            Clapp laid down the gauntlet; a Southern politician had frankly addressed the color line as a matter
                    of formal inequality. In his remarks, however, Harrison neither admonished the southern mayor nor
                    directly addressed the topic of white supremacy. Instead, he introduced a theme that he would
                    consistently pursue throughout his tour: the supremacy of the law. Harrison claimed that
                    "[t]his government of ours is a compact of the people to be governed by a majority,
                    expressing itself by lawful methods." Continuing in this vein, he asserted that Americans
                    "must all come at last to this conclusion, that the supremacy of the law is the one
                    supremacy in this country of ours." The president's comments were greeted with a
                    roar from the crowd.2
            
            It is hard to determine what in particular the audience found so compelling about Harrison's
                    response. Did they welcome a statement of aggressive intervention from a northern president? Did
                    they endorse his love of law? Or did they merely appreciate the verbal exchange that had taken
                    place? The meanings of Harrison's statement become clearer when placed in the context of
                    the journey that he had undertaken. Harrison would face similar encounters throughout his national
                    sojourn, though none as direct as his confrontation with Mayor Clapp. The entire scene speaks to the
                    precarious relationship between race, region, and Republicanism in 1891 that lies at the heart of
                    this article.3
            
            The second major tour through southern states by a Republican president since the Civil War,
                    Harrison's journey was important for three major reasons. First, the tour signified a new
                    political tack for the president and the Republican Party as they looked ahead to the election of
                    1892. Having advocated in 1890 measures widely perceived as hostile to white southerners, Harrison
                    now applied a more conciliatory approach. The Republican Party was ready to court southern voters by
                    addressing themes 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Memphis
                            
                            Appeal–Avalanche, "The Nation's
                            Head," April 18, 1891, p. 1.
                  
                     2 John S. Shriver, comp., Through the South and West
                            With the President, April 14– May 15, 1891 (
                                New York
                            , 1891), 23–24.
                  
                     3 The three most relevant books on the intersection of these topics in
                            Benjamin Harrison's era are Vincent E DeSantis, Republicans Face the
                                Southern Question: The New Departure Years, 1877–1897 (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1959); Stanley E Hirshson, Farewell to the Bloody Shirt: Northern Republicans and the Negro Question, 1877–1893
                            (1962; 
                                Chicago
                            , 1968); and Rayford W. Logan, The Betrayal of the Negro: From
                                Rutherford B. Hayes to Woodrow Wilson (1954; 
                                New York
                            , 1965).
               
                     that would appeal to both northern and southern whites and by
                    dealing with racial issues in national terms. Second, the tour demonstrated the limitations of that
                    approach, in particular the party's evasiveness on issues of racial justice. Throughout his
                    southern swing, Harrison used oblique attacks, including appeals to the law, and he and his party
                    paid the price for that strategy. Finally, the journey highlighted the ways in which white
                    southerners, blacks, and the Republican Party continued to contest the legacy of the Civil War and
                    Reconstruction. Although the long–term implications of the president's journey
                    were not evident to many of his contemporaries, with hindsight it is clear that Harrison and the
                    Republicans sacrificed the basic interests of black Americans.
            Harrison's trip in the spring of 1891 was fraught with potential difficulties. The tour was
                    the first nationwide trip undertaken by a president. As a result, it proved to be an organizational
                    nightmare. Harrison and his aides analyzed train schedules, consulted local delegations, and
                    extended political favors. Where would the president go, what places would he avoid, and what would
                    he say? George 
                        Washington
                     had established the precedent for presidential travel by visiting all of the states,
                    but the growth of the railroad made travel in the now vastly expanded nation more practical and more
                    comfortable. In 1880 
                        Rutherford
                     Hayes had become the first president to visit the west coast, but no one before
                    Harrison had attempted an intensive speaking tour throughout the country. The political significance
                    of a nationwide tour cannot be overemphasized. When Harrison argued about the importance of adhering
                    to the Constitution, or raised specific policy issues such as tariffs, he was appealing not to any
                    particular region but to the entire country In addition, Harrison became the first president to
                    visit 
                  Arkansas, Texas
               , and a number of western states. Residents of western cities and
                    towns could know that in welcoming their president they paid honor not only to their country but
                    also to their community and its place within the nation.
            The trip was not all pomp and parades. In an era before public opinion polling, travel was an ideal
                    way for presidents to gauge reaction to their existing policies and send up trial balloons for new
                    initiatives. Harrison's 1891 trip solidified a Republican tradition, begun by Hayes, in
                    which the party's president used a journey through the South as an opportunity for
                    announcing new political priorities.4
            
            
               
                  4 For more on the emergence of Republican presidential tours during the
                        Gilded Age, see Edward Frantz, "Goin' Dixie: Republican Presidential Tours of
                        the South, 1877–1933," Ph.D. diss., University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        –
                            Madison
                        , 2002.
            
            
            With an ambitious scale and an important political message, Harrison carefully scheduled his southern
                    destinations. Commencing on April 14, he gave major speeches in 
                  Knoxville, Chattanooga, Atlanta
               , Birmingham, 
                  Memphis, Little Rock, Houston
               , Galveston, San Antonio, and El
                    Paso— all within one week. Such a pace meant that local citizens had a limited
                    opportunity to meet and speak with the president. It also meant that Harrison gleaned little about
                    these locations, because at times he did nothing more than stop in the train depot to speak and
                    shake hands. Southern cities preferred a quick presidential visit over none at all, but many local
                    leaders lamented the fact that the Hoosier never remained in one location for more than
                    twenty–four hours. Some places missed the president entirely. The New Orleans Daily Picayune decried the president's absence: "It is to be
                    greatly regretted … that 
                        New Orleans
                    , the largest and most representative city in the South, should not have been
                        visited."3 In neighboring 
                        Mississippi
                    , Harrison chose a characteristic flanking movement, passing through towns but giving no
                    speeches. The Magnolia State had recently disfranchised its African American population, and it
                    remained in many ways the taproot of southern racism. It would be the only state that Harrison
                    visited during his long journey in which he did not deliver a speech. Like his other maneuvers with
                    respect to racial politics, this decision reaped some short–term benefits but yielded
                    long–term problems.
            Short, paunch–bellied, with the requisite bearded visage of his era, Benjamin Harrison was
                    as stubborn as a mule. Described even by allies as prickly, he was a loner who did not communicate
                    well. Like so many of his generation, Harrison's public career started after his service in
                    the Civil War. When he volunteered in the summer of 1862, Harrison was commissioned as a lieutenant
                    of the 70th Indiana Regiment. Among their many campaigns, the regiment took part in General William
                    T. Sherman's 1864 March to the Sea. Harrison's career was distinguished by
                    competence, if not brilliance; by the conclusion of the war he had been brevetted a brigadier
                    general.
            Upon war's end, Harrison went back to his law practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , made an unsuccessful run at the governorship in 1876, and served 
                  
                     5 New Orleans Daily Picayune, editorial,
                            "The President's Trip," April 19,1891, Benjamin Harrison Papers,
                            Library of Congress microfilm edition (
                                Washington
                             D.C., 1960), Scrapbook volume 10, p. 146, series 16, reel 146. All subsequent
                            references to the Harrison Papers will be noted as BH Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  Benjamin Harrison in 1891. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                a single term in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, between 1881 and 1887. Although biographer Harry Sievers identifies Harrison
                    with the radical faction of Republicans, he did not hold elective office during Reconstruction. He
                    had been, however, a mild advocate for African American rights and spoke up occasionally about
                    racial injustice in the South.6 His writings during the war do not dwell on the
                    issues of slavery or freedom, nor do they often reflect on black people. His association with his
                    extended 
                  
                     6 Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier President:
                                The White House and After (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 149–53.
               
                     family, many of whom hailed from 
                        Virginia
                    , no doubt exerted some influence on these attitudes, as did his political maturation in
                    the closely divided state of Indiana. Even more than 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana had a strong faction of pro–southern Democrats and conservative
                    Republicans. The naturally conservative Harrison would have found it expedient to play down divisive
                    racial issues when he sought political office in his state. Harrison briefly stepped away from
                    politics in 1887 but did not have long to wait before he became his party's nominee for the
                        presidency.7
            
            In 1888, boosted by the enthusiastic support of the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR) and the appeal
                    of an experimental front–porch campaign, Harrison eked out a victory over Democratic
                    incumbent Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     despite losing the popular vote. Fraud, violence, and intimidation had prevented many
                    African Americans living in the former Confederate states from voting. Had those votes been freely
                    cast and counted, Republicans claimed, their candidate would have received a substantial majority.
                    Despite conditions in the South, the 1888 election also ushered Republican majorities into both
                    houses of Congress. With a majority of seven in the Senate and twelve in the House, Republicans had
                    a firmer grip on both the executive and legislative branches than at any time since 1875. They
                    seemed well–positioned to enact any domestic policies they wanted to pursue, including
                    measures that would prevent the southern voter fraud and violence that they had decried.
            The political context is critical for understanding Harrison's actions as president, but so,
                    too, are his personal traits and convictions. Journalist Henry Stoddard assessed the president as
                    "[e]arnest, thorough and prudent, he lived up to the great responsibilities of his office;
                    he gave a conservative, constructive administration."8 He was not as
                    powerless as his contemporaries depicted him, however. Numerous representations of a tiny Harrison
                    beneath a gigantic top hat perpetuated the notion that he was a political pygmy.9 Like many men of his generation, Harrison vener– 
                  
                     7 The most colorful aspect of Harrison's campaign was that
                            Lew Wallace, author of Ben Hur, wrote the official campaign biography and
                            did his best to portray Harrison in similar heroic terms. For a description of their
                            association, see Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier Statesman: From
                                the Civil War to the White House, 1865–1888 (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 368–71.
                  
                     8 Henry L. Stoddard, As I Knew Them: Presidents and
                                Politics from Grant to Coolidge (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 164.
                  
                     9 had used the slogan "Grandfather's Hat Fits
                            Ben" in the 1888 election, and so critics used the image of the short Benjamin
                            Harrison in an oversized top–hat belonging to William Henry Harrison. For more on
                            the Puck cartoons of the era, see Richard West, Satire on
                                Stone: The Political Cartoons of Joseph Keppler (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1988).
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Puck cartoon, 1890, by Frederick Opper. Political cartoonists
                            produced several variations on this disparaging image of Harrison, almost buried by his
                            grandfather's legacy.
                  Courtesy President Benjamin Harrison Research Library
                ated the law and believed passionately in its supremacy. When, as president, he learned of
                    violations of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, he was as likely to lament the flouting of
                    law in the abstract as he was to decry the human impact of such racial injustice.
                    Harrison's extreme reserve makes it even harder to see where he stood on racial issues. He
                    often wrote and spoke of civil rights abuses in abstract terms as violations of the law, thereby
                    robbing his statements of most of their power but  also
                    shielding him from the vociferous criticism of his southern Democratic opponents. In his inaugural
                    address, for instance, Harrison condemned the "evil example of permitting individuals,
                    corporations, or communities to nullify the laws because they cross some selfish or local interest
                    or prejudices."10 Sievers concludes that on the issue of race,
                    Harrison, "although no torch–bearer like [his first assistant postmaster and
                    Republican campaign specialist James] Clarkson, at least would not abandon the Negro."11
            
            Harrison's racial attitudes and actions were especially important because racial
                    violence—a persistent problem throughout the post–Civil War
                    South—reached new levels of frequency and intensity during his presidency. The
                    precipitous rise in lynching during the Harrison administration was a brutal reality for African
                    Americans. A reign of terror, the likes of which had not been seen since Reconstruction, swept
                    through the southern states in particular. In 1891, 127 African Americans were lynched.12 For black Americans supremacy of the law and enforcement of the Constitution
                    were not matters of abstract theory but daily issues of survival. The Republican president and
                    congressmen were aware of the plight of black voters and black citizens in general, but all too
                    often they failed to act decisively. Harrison's 1891 southern swing was therefore vital to
                    African Americans' interests, because every action and every utterance would be filtered
                    through the prism of southern race relations. Would Harrison support the rights of black citizens
                    and rebuke white southerners for violence and fraud?
            Race relations constituted one key issue for post–Civil War presi– 
                  
                     10 James Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the Messages
                                and Papers of the Presidents, 1789–1897 (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1897), vol. 9, 5444.
                  
                     11 Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier President,
                            82.
                  
                     12 For more on lynching and the South see W. Fitzhugh Brundage, Lynching in the New South: 
                                    Georgia
                                 and
                            
                                Virginia
                            , 1880–1930 (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1993). The figure used here is taken from the National Association for
                            the Advancement of Colored People's Thirty Years of Lynching in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1889–1918 (1919; 
                                New York
                            , 1969), 29. According to the organization's records, the number of
                            southern blacks lynched during 1891 broke down by state as follows (ibid., pp.
                            43–101): 
                                Alabama
                            : 15; 
                                Arkansas
                            : 9; 
                                Florida
                            : 8; 
                                Georgia
                            : 8; 
                                Louisiana
                            : 12; 
                                Mississippi
                            : 20; 
                                North Carolina
                            : 2; 
                                South Carolina
                            : 1; 
                                Tennessee
                            : 13; 
                                Texas
                            : 10; 
                                Virginia
                            : 2. The total number of recorded lynchings of blacks in the southern states in
                            1891 was 100; in contrast, during the same year in the 8 eastern and midwestern states and
                            territories where any lynchings of blacks were recorded (
                        Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma
                     , and West 
                                Virginia
                            ) the total number was 13.
               
                     dents; another was the related issue of southern politics. The
                    removal of the last federal troops from the South in the spring of 1877 brought to a close the
                    tumultuous Reconstruction years. Thereafter, Republicans in particular were anxious to assert new
                    policies meant to increase the party's popularity. Yet the political landscape pointed the
                    Republicans in two separate directions. On the one hand, the party had been formed to stop the
                    expansion of slavery, and had increasingly committed itself during the war and Reconstruction years
                    toward racial justice, most notably in its advocacy of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth
                    Amendments. One alternative for Benjamin Harrison and his fellow Republicans as they took power in
                    1889 would have been to reassert the legacy of their martyred hero, Abraham Lincoln, and openly and
                    vigorously pursue greater justice for black Americans.13
            
            On the other hand, the Republicans were deeply conscious that twenty–four years after 
                        Appomattox
                    , they were still a sectional party. With few exceptions, they had not found reliable
                    ways to develop a significant southern following. Southern racial politics developed into a
                    zero–sum game: what would benefit one race would hinder the other. Because the
                    Reconstruction experiment had come to a close, many Republican leaders believed the wisest policy
                    that the party could pursue was one of moderation and tolerance toward white southerners. By 1891,
                    Harrison had developed a third strategy for dealing with the South, demonstrating his uncertainty
                    about the best direction in which to lead the party. A closer look at all three strategies will help
                    to establish the context of Clapp and Harrison's oratorical confrontation.
            Upon taking office, Harrison initially encouraged the formation of southern state–level
                    organizations united around the issue of a high tariff. The groups would be known by a variety of
                    names but would not be labeled explicitly as Republican. African Americans were barred from
                    participation in this political network; indeed, that was a large portion of the rationale behind
                    the attempt. There were, Harrison and other Republicans believed, many white southerners
                    economically sympathetic to their 
                  
                     13 For more on the increasing displays of sectional reconciliation,
                            see Gaines M. Foster, Ghosts of the Confederacy: Defeat, the Lost Cause, and
                                the Emergence of the New South, 1865 to 1913 (
                                New York
                            , 1987); Nina Silber, The Romance of Reunion: Northerners and the
                                South, 1865–1900 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1993); David W. Blight,"'For Somedung Beyond the
                            Battlefield': Frederick Douglass and the Struggle for the Memory of the Civil
                            War," Journal of American History, 75 (March 1989),
                            1156–78; and Blight, Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 2001).
               
                     party who could not bring themselves to support a group allied
                    with African Americans. In theory this might have been true, but the strategy ignored the political
                    realities of the post–Reconstruction South. As a result, leading Republicans abandoned
                    the idea after electoral losses in 1889, and concluded, in the words of historian Stanley Hirshson,
                    that "the Bourbons [conservative Southerners] were not to be trusted and that only federal
                    regulation of elections could solve the sectional problem."14
            
            The year 1890 marked a turning point for the Harrison administration and for the country. At the
                    president's urging, the party adopted a second strategy toward the South, sponsoring two
                    major bills which returned directly to the fundamental question of racial justice. One bill,
                    sponsored by 
                        New Hampshire
                     Senator Henry W. Blair, concerned federal funding for education, which would have
                    affected southern states in particular. If the Blair bill was controversial, the Federal Elections
                    Bill inspired outrage among white southerners.13 Derisively labeled the
                    "Force Bill" by its opponents almost immediately after its introduction by 
                        Massachusetts
                     congressman Henry Cabot Lodge, the bill sought to renew the spirit of the Fourteenth
                    and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution by guaranteeing federal oversight of federal elections.
                    It proposed to send federal supervisors to cities with a population of more than 20,000, to any
                    congressional district upon the request of 100 voters, and to counties or parishes upon the
                    application of 50 voters.16 While Lodge's bill applied to the whole
                    country, most people read the measure as being directed squarely at the South. After heated debate,
                    the bill passed the House on a party–line vote (with only two Republicans breaking
                    ranks), 155–149. In the Senate, after concerted backroom dealing, Lodge's bill
                    failed even to come up for debate during the first session and thereafter was put on the back burner
                    and filibustered to death.17 By the time the Federal Elections Bill died, 
                  
                     14 Hirshson, Farewell to the Bloody Shirt, 205. For
                            a more in–depth discussion of the tariff plan, see pp. 174–89.
                  
                     15 For more on the Blair bill, see ibid., 192–200. The bill
                            would have affected southern states in particular because it tied funding rates to
                            illiteracy rates, which were highest throughout the South. Hirshson stresses that in 1890,
                            unlike previous years, the bill met considerable opposition in the North, even among
                            Republicans. Historian Rayford Logan, on the other hand, points out that although
                            Republicans failed to carry the bill, opposition among Democrats, particularly southerners,
                            was more important. See Logan, Betrayal of the Negro, 66–70.
                            The most in–depth study of both the Lodge and Blair Bills is Daniel Wallace
                            Crofts, "The Blair Bill and the Elections Bill: the Congressional Aftermath to
                            Reconstruction," Ph.D. diss., Yale University, 1968.
                  
                     16 "Hirshson, Farewell to the Bloody Shirt,
                            204.
                  
                     17 Logan contains a particularly strong discussion of the Lodge Bill;
                            see Betrayal of the Negro, 63–87.
               
                     1890 had turned to 1891, and Republicans, who held the
                    presidency and both houses of Congress, had reintroduced divisive racial and sectional issues into
                    the national discussion without translating their efforts into any legislation.
            The chief result of all this Republican politicking was that the party now received all of the
                    criticism and ire of southern Democrats, who used the opportunity to whip up racist fears to levels
                    unseen in years. On the state level, southern Democrats were even able to translate their sentiment
                    into political action, most noticeably in 
                        Mississippi
                    . Although efforts had begun even before the proposed Lodge Bill, white demagogues used
                    the specter of an all–intrusive, Republican–controlled federal government
                    controlled by Republicans to ratify a state constitution that effectively disfranchised almost all
                    African Americans, chiefly through poll taxes and literacy tests.18 It soon
                    became apparent that neither Congress nor the president could—or would—make a
                    decisive response.
            Northerners were well aware of the bitter debate triggered by the Lodge and Blair bills, but many
                    were distracted by another political development throughout parts of the Great Plains and the South.
                    Whereas the Lodge Bill threatened to reintroduce sectionalism into American politics, the growing
                    popularity of the Farmers' Alliance threatened the premise of the two–party
                    system. The demands that grew out of the group's meeting in 
                  Ocala, Florida
               ,
                    in December 1890 have stood ever since as a landmark declaration of dissatisfaction with the
                    political status quo. Endorsing the free coinage of silver, the direct election of senators, and a
                    subtreasury system for grain distribution, storage, and credit, the Ocala platform followed on the
                    heels of an election in which Alliance candidates won governorships in four states of the former
                        Confederacy19 Harrison watched these 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Mississippi
                             became the model on which other Southern states rewrote their constitutions
                            between 1890 and 1910. For an excellent discussion of this trend see C. Vann Woodward,
                            "The 
                                Mississippi
                             Plan as the American Way," in Origins of the New South,
                                1877–1913 (1951; 
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1997), 321–49. The best and most exhaustive recent work on
                            disfranchisement is Michael Perman, Struggle for Mastery: Dis/ranchisement
                            in the South, 1888–1908 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 2001); see also J. Morgan Kousser, The Shaping of
                            Southern Politics: Suffrage Restriction and the Establishment of the
                                One–Party South, 1880–1910 (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1974). While not discounting the importance of racism, Kousser believes
                            partisanship was the decisive motivation for white southerners to disfranchise voters.
                  
                     19 The states were 
                        Georgia,
                                    South Carolina, Tennessee
                     , and 
                                Texas
                            . For more on the Populists and their Alliance predecessors, see Lawrence
                            Goodwyn, The Populist Moment: A Short History of the Agrarian Revolt in
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1978); John D. Hicks, The Populist Revolt: A History of the
                                Farmers'Alliance and the People's Party (1931; Lincoln, Neb.,
                            1961); Robert C. McMath, Jr., American Populism: A Social History,
                                1877–1898 (
                                New York
                            , 1993); and McMath, Populist Vanguard: A History of the Southern
                                Farmers' Alliance (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1975).
               
                     developments with great concern and predicted that "if
                    the Alliance can hold full one half of our Republican voters in such states as 
                        Kansas
                     and Neb. our future is not cheerful."20 One of the
                    purposes for the 1891 trip was to strengthen the ties between Republicans and local communities in
                    an effort to check the Alliance's strength.
            By the beginning of 1891 the Republican president and congress had made their last effort to enforce
                    the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments via new federal laws, and their failure resulted in anemic
                    morale. In contrast, many southerners hailed the rise of the Farmer's Alliance as the dawn
                    of a political revolution. In 
                        Mississippi
                    , whites rejoiced in their ability to disfranchise African Americans by law. The
                    election of 1890 energized Alliance members and white southern Democrats alike, all at the expense
                    of Harrison's Republican Party. The Republicans suffered disastrous losses that overturned
                    their majority in the House; the new political landscape meant that Harrison would be working from a
                    position of weakness, rather than the strength he had enjoyed during his first two years in office.
                    As the president plotted new paths, his national tour in April and May of 1891 became an important
                    platform for giving voice to new strategies, especially his southern policy and his proposals for
                    ameliorating racial animosity.21
            
            Harrison did not make the journey alone. A small contingent, including his wife, both of his adult
                    children, his daughter–in–law, and a niece, accompanied him. The remaining
                    members of the official party were all men: Postmaster General John Wanamaker, Secretary of
                    Agriculture Jeremiah Rusk, and Marshal of the 
                        District of Columbia
                     Dan Ransdell, the last of whom served under Harrison in the Civil War. In addition to
                    the official party, a stenographer, the heads of the various railroads, and three newspaper
                    reporters traveled with the president.22
            
            
               
                  20 Benjamin Harrison to Howard Cale, November 17, 1890, in BH Papers,
                        series 1, reel 29.
               
                  21 In 1888, Republicans had controlled the House 173–156, and
                        the Senate 47–37. After the 1890 election, the numbers dropped precipitously.
                        Democrats controlled the House 231–88, but the Republicans held on to control in the
                        Senate. Within the South, Republican House membership dropped from 13 in 1888 to just 4 in 1890.
               
                  22 For a list of those who traveled with Harrison, see Shriver, Through
                        the South and West, xvi. A substantial portion of the Harrison clan lived in
                        the White House, including their grown daughter Mary McKee and her children, their son
                        Russell's wife and one child, a niece, and the president's father
                        in–law; see Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier President,
                        52—57.
            
            
            
               Printed program of the 1891 tour, with signatures of the participants. The first
                        day's itinerary—with stops in five cities—reflects the pace of
                        the entire tour. George Elbert Burr Papers, courtesy Archives of American
                        Art—Smithsonian Institution
            
            Harrison carefully planned the stops on the tour. At times addressing audiences in as many as seven
                    places in a single day, he set a rapid pace. He thought carefully about how his speeches would be
                    covered, but above all, he was concerned with the content of the speeches and how they fit into his
                    political agenda. While he varied the details, Harrison concentrated on three common themes in his
                    speaking: the benefits of economic diversification for all classes, in all locations; the contrast
                    between the sectionalism of the Civil War and the reunion of the present; and, most important, the
                    supremacy of the law. Such divergent appeals, similar to those he had made to southern groups in the
                    first years of his presidency, had the potential benefit of reaching a broad spectrum of people and
                    the potential drawback of repelling as many listeners as they attracted. The people who were
                    galvanized by an emphasis on sectional reconciliation might be repulsed by the message of enforcing
                    the Constitution, and it was uncertain which groups would find the economic diversification message
                    most appealing.
            
            At first glance, Harrison's themes seemed likely to yield bland newspaper copy. The economic
                    implications, however, were important and wide–ranging. The Republican Party had
                    regularly sought high protective tariffs in order to encourage the development of American industry.
                    The South, however, was still primarily agricultural, with cotton dominating the region's
                    way of life. As a result, the Democrats who represented southern states traditionally advocated not
                    higher tariffs, which would make manufactured goods more expensive, but rather new markets for their
                    agricultural surpluses. Since the mid–1880s, however, advocates of the
                    so–called New South, who aspired to the coexistence of agriculture and industry, had
                    become increasingly vocal, and Harrison sought to translate what seemed to be a changing economic
                    landscape into political gain. An alliance between northern and southern capital might be a boon for
                    the Republican Party. The cities that he visited during his southern swing were thought to be
                    particularly fertile ground for the message, especially 
                        Atlanta
                    , home to the recently deceased promoter of the New South, 
                  
                            Atlanta
                         Constitution editor Henry Grady23
            
            It was particularly fitting, therefore, for Harrison to appeal to an 
                        Atlanta
                     audience on the basis of shared economic interest. In an April 16 speech in the city,
                    Harrison claimed that emancipation had "opened up to diversified industries these States
                    that were otherwise exclusively agricultural, and made it possible for you, not only to raise
                    cotton, but to spin and weave it."24
                    
                        Georgia
                     was no longer a one–crop state, Harrison maintained, and thus it was more
                    prosperous than it had been during slavery.
            Harrison devoted the longest speech of his tour almost entirely to the subject of foreign markets and
                    tariffs. Speaking in 
                  Galveston, Texas
               , on April 18, Harrison addressed what he thought would
                    be issues of paramount concern to residents of the port city. First touching on the efforts he had
                    made to improve funding for the navigation of the Mississippi River, Harrison
                    then turned to trade. He appealed to his audience to consider whether they wanted the 
                        United States
                     or European countries to control trade to the "sister republics that lie south
                    of us." He urged an economic interpretation of the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine when he contended that the trade was "naturally in large measure
                    ours—ours by neighborhood, 
                  
                     23 For more on the New South, see Paul M. Gaston, The New
                                South Creed: A Study in Southern Mythmaking (
                                New York
                            , 1970); Woodward, Origins of the New South;
                            and Edward L. Ayers, The Promise of the New South: Life After
                            Reconstruction (
                                New York
                            , 1992).
                  
                     24,
                            Through the South and West, 15.
               
                     ours by nearness of access, ours by that sympathy that binds a
                    hemisphere without a king."25
            
            The president closed his speech by clarifying the benefits of a more robust trade and a diversified
                    economy for the South and by sharing his hope for economic growth in all parts of the country.
                    "The vision I have," he stated, "all the thoughts I have, of this matter,
                    embrace all the States and all my countrymen. I do not think of it as a question of party; I think
                    of it as a great American question."26 Harrison's call for a
                    national interest superior to sectional matters was rhetorically effective. He curtailed his
                    discussions of slavery and the past and spoke about the potential for the future. The speech was
                    truly national in its outlook. Harrison could have given it in 
                        New Orleans
                     or 
                        New York
                     and received a similar response. By not pandering to the particulars of southern
                    interests, Harrison demonstrated that he thought of the region not in contrast to, but as part of,
                    the rest of the country.
            Harrison used the Civil War as another way of trying to establish a bond with his southern listeners.
                    The audience might have been hard pressed to believe that this small man with the rotund belly had
                    once served in the Union Army, but Harrison made sure to discuss his own experiences and to include
                    references to his Confederate counterparts. The president used this tactic most explicitly at 
                        Chattanooga
                     and 
                        Atlanta
                     on April 15 and 16, because he had fought in the vicinity of both cities in 1864.
            In 
                        Tennessee
                    , Harrison started his address by commenting that the last time he had seen 
                        Chattanooga
                    , " [i] ts only industries were military, its stores were munitions of war, its
                    pleasant hill–tops were torn with rifle pits, its civic population the attendants of an
                    army campaign." He contrasted these images of war with images of peace, noting that in the
                    place of guns were homes, in the place of armies, happy children. There had been "two
                    conquests—one with arms, the other with the gentle influences of peace—and the
                    last," the president hastened to add, "is greater than the first." What
                    had been a region divided by economic and political systems was now "not only in
                    contemplation of the law, but in heart and sympathy, one people."27
                    Harrison found the war a useful metaphor for discuss– 
                  
                     25 Ibid., 30.
                  
                     26 Ibid., 33.
                  
                     27 Ibid., 11–12.
               
                     ing economic, political, and social development in the last
                    quarter of the century. He did not touch upon any of the causes of the war, nor on which side was
                    right, but rather on the benefits of a unified country. In this respect, he favored the theme of
                    reconciliation, increasingly common among whites of both the North and South, instead of a more
                    radical emancipationist memory of the war.28
            
            In 
                        Atlanta
                    , Harrison once again opened with an allusion to the far different circumstances that
                    had prevailed in the city at the time of his last visit. The president could have drawn more direct
                    contrasts between past devastation and present prosperity, but perhaps sensing that such rhetoric
                    would stir up too many negative reactions, he refrained from doing so. He did, however, make a
                    direct appeal to southern veterans: "We can all say with the Confederate soldier who
                    carried a gun for what seemed to him to be right," Harrison proclaimed, "that
                    'the Lord knew better than any of us what was best for the country and for the
                        world.'"29
            
            Audiences might have expected Harrison to emphasize his Civil War service, but the fact that he
                    referred to the war and its veterans only three times during his days in the South suggests that the
                    president thought the war was of decreasing relevance to the politics of the 1890s.30 Indeed, his Galveston speech, in which he made no allusions to the Confederacy, was more
                    characteristic of Harrison's southern addresses than his speech at 
                        Atlanta
                    .31 The president's neglect of sectional and racial issues
                    did not bode well for African Americans, who had been so important to the entire Republican
                    legislative agenda in 1890, but who now were absent from the party's discourse. Bringing
                    economic issues to the forefront did not automatically negate African American interests, but
                    Harrison never explained how people of color fit into his economic vision. On the contrary,
                    Harrison's silences suggest that he realized that the Lodge Bill's defeat signaled
                    the end of any serious national–level political discussion of African American rights.
            
               
                  28 For more on the emancipationist vision and its declining prominence in
                        the 1890s, see Blight, Race and Reunion.
               
                  29 Shriver, Through the South and West, 15.
               
                  30 The third reference occurred in 
                     El
                                Paso, Texas
                  , during his
                        last speech in a former slave state. Harrison referred to the number of GAR members present in
                        the audience, and commented that it was one of the few wars that "brought blessings to
                        the 'victors and vanquished'"; ibid., 40.
               
                  31 Part of Harrison's restraint in addressing war issues can be
                        explained by the fact that many of the leaders of the war and the era were dying. During his
                        administration, and particularly the years following the southern tour, the list included
                        Jefferson Davis, William T. Sherman, Admiral
            
            
            The most explosive and the most important theme that the president touched upon while traveling
                    through the South was the supremacy of the law. Harrison never described what he thought such
                    supremacy should look like. His appeals were strongest when coupled with a corollary of equality
                    before the law, as they had been in 
                        Atlanta
                    . When he paired supremacy of the law with a discussion of majority rule, however,
                    Harrison's argument was much less impressive to African Americans and their allies.
                    Majority rule could be interpreted in a number of ways, some of which were extremely pernicious when
                    viewed in the context of the racial situation of the time. Harrison might have meant one thing when
                    he said majority rule, and members of his audience may have heard something entirely different.
            The first instance in which Harrison touched on the theme at any length was in 
                        Knoxville
                    , at the end of the first day of his journey. Harrison claimed that law was the bedrock
                    of American society and was based on the fact "that a majority of our people, taking those
                    methods which are prescribed by the Constitution and law, shall determine our public policies and
                    choose our rulers." It was not clear, however, whether Harrison was referring to national,
                    state, or local government. He further obfuscated the matter when he added, "we may safely
                    divide upon the question as to what shall be the law; but when the law is once enacted no community
                    can safely divide on the question of implicit obedience to the law"32
                    By introducing the concept of community, Harrison seemed to imply that supremacy of the law was
                    centered at the local level. If so, then his pleas for communities to unite behind enacted laws
                    almost constituted an open endorsement of Jim Crow segregation. Given Harrison's other
                    comments on this issue, it is more likely that he was referring to federal laws and making veiled
                    reference to the importance of observing the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. But by not making
                    his appeal explicit, the president left himself open to interpretation by the white natives of 
                        Knoxville
                    , who held the overwhelming numerical majority and the political power in their city and
                    clearly believed that they did not need Harrison to validate their leadership.33
            
            
               David Porter, Rutherford B. Hayes, and James G. Blaine. Homer E. Socolofsky and Allan B.
                        Spetter, The Presidency of Benjamin Harrison (Lawrence, Kan., 1987),
                        185–86.
               
                  32 Shriver, Through the South and West, 11.
               
                  33 1890 census figures show the overall population of 
                            Knoxville
                         was 22,535: 16,106 whites, and 6,423 blacks. The remaining residents were Chinese
                        (2) and "civilized" Indian (4).
            
            
            On April 16, in Tallapoosa, 
                        Georgia
                    , Harrison slightly revised his speech so that his appeals were more explicit. He
                    directly included the Constitution in his remarks and tried to focus his discussion on elections. In
                    this way he left his speech less open to interpretation than he had in 
                        Knoxville
                    , but he once again inserted the problematic word "majority" into his
                    text. So, although he was alluding to the Constitution when he stated that "every man shall
                    exercise freely the right that the suffrage law confides to him, and that the majority, if it has
                    expressed its will, shall conclude the issue for us all," Harrison again occluded the
                        issue.34 In a southern county that was ninety–percent white,
                    listeners would have focused on the term "majority" in Harrison's speech,
                    rather than the "every man" element. Harrison wanted to imply that the
                    Republicans, as the majority party on the national level, should have been able to pass the Lodge
                    Bill without the objections of Democrats. The president probably thought that he was performing a
                    delicate balancing act, in which he praised white southerners for some things while rebuking them
                    for others. Such abstract and indirect rebukes, however, had far less impact than Harrison intended.
            Again and again, the old soldier showed his fondness for the flanking movement over the frontal
                    assault. At most, he focused on constitutional issues for a sentence or two in any particular
                    southern location. Because he usually counterbalanced the issue of law with that of the easing of
                    sectional tension between the white North and South, Harrison's pleas were effective
                    rhetorical parallels at best. In the minds of the white members of his audience, they were, more
                    than likely, disregarded details. At times, Harrison could sound a clarion call to justice, as he
                    did in 
                        Atlanta
                     when he urged: "while exacting all our rights let us bravely and generously
                    give every other man his equal rights before the law."35 Or, he could
                    make explicit appeals as he did in 
                        Little Rock
                    : " [t]he commonwealth rests upon the free suffrage of its citizens and their
                    devotion to the Constitution. "36 Even in these cases, however, justice
                    and law were similes through which Harrison discussed racial interaction in the South. Law became
                    the code word for race. By putting complex issues in such abstract legal terms, Harrison sheltered
                    himself from white southern abuse, but also limited the effect of his words on local and national
                    audiences.
            
               
                  34 Shriver, Through the South and West, 16.
               
                  35 Ibid., 15.
               
                  36 lbid., 25.
            
            
            
               
                  
                     El Paso, Texas
                  , like many other cities, welcomed Harrison with a
                        parade. The photograph is by George Elbert Burr, official photographer for the tour. George
                        Elbert Burr Papers, courtesy Archives of American Art—Smithsonian Institution
            
            By April 21, 1891, Harrison had left 
                  El Paso, Texas
               , behind and was heading toward the 
                        New Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                     Territories. As southerners contemplated his visit, newspaper editors began dissecting
                    accounts of the various speeches, banquets, and parades that had taken place. They wondered if the
                    conciliatory posture that he had adopted would persist, or if the president would embrace yet
                    another political position as he contemplated 1892 and a possible run at reelection.
            Early on, papers such as the 
                  
                            Atlanta
                         Constitution emphasized the warmth and enthusiasm with which the president had
                    been greeted. This kind of reception was important, the editors believed, because it illustrated to
                    Harrison that the old antagonisms of the Civil War had died off. According to one 
                        Atlanta
                     editorial, as soon as he crossed into the South, Harrison "found himself
                    surrounded by loyal Americans, and his environment has been so thoroughly national that he has
                    forgotten that he is in a strange section."37 Such remarks were
                    commonplace, as communities 
                  
                     37
                            
                        
                                    Atlanta
                                 Constitution, editorial, "Mr. Harrison in the
                            South," April 20,1891, in BH Papers, Scrap–book volume 10, p. 155,
                            series 16, reel 146.
               
                     attempted to demonstrate their good will toward the president.
                    But at the same time, many southern papers reminded Harrison that their hospitality was conditional.
                    Were he to reintroduce the Republican–sponsored Elections Bill, he would get the
                    proverbial cold shoulder. Thus, the same editorial reminded Harrison: "When the president
                    reflects upon the logical consequences of the views which he has so freely expressed during his stay
                    in the south, he will see that he cannot consistently advocate or endorse any policy that revives
                    the old war issues, divides the sections, and oppresses half the republic in the interests of
                    partisanry in the other half."38
            
            Other newspaper editors refused to give Harrison even a modicum of credit. The seeming spontaneity
                    and enthusiasm of the crowds that greeted him throughout the southern tour were questionable,
                    according to the 
                  
                            Charleston
                         News and Courier: "The receptions that have been and will be extended
                    to the President in the South are purely matters of politeness. They are entirely lacking in
                    sincerity on both sides." The same editorial made it abundantly clear that the racial
                    issues raised by the Elections Bill were still fresh: "If he be impressed by the fitting
                    glimpses that he shall get of the Southern people and return to 
                        Washington
                     with the impression that the South is not yet sufficiently subdued to accept the Force
                    bill and negro rule … his long journey will not have been in vain."39
            
            As editors saw more of Harrison's speeches, many realized that the president had
                    consistently favored conciliation over confrontation. Some southern editors reacted with suspicion,
                    in particular when they heard of Harrison's celebration of the prosperous and diversified
                    economies of the new South. These editors pointed out that this state of prosperity existed because
                    white southerners (not intrusive Yankee Republicans) controlled their local communities. A New Orleans Daily Picayune editorial voiced this most directly: "[d]uring his
                    hurried trip through the South the President cannot have failed to … have noted the vast
                    development that has taken place since this section has been freed of the curse of Federal
                        interference."40 The Mobile Daily Register took a
                    similar angle, focusing instead on what Harrison did not say. "Mr. Harrison," the
                    paper claimed, "should have acknowledged that his advocacy of the passage of the force
                        
                  
                     38 Ibid.
                  
                     39
                            
                        
                                    Charleston
                                 News and Courier, editorial, "The President's
                            Journey and its Object," April 17,1891, in BH Papers, Scrapbook volume 10, pp.
                            132—33, series 16, reel 146.
                  
                     40 New Orleans Daily Picayune, editorial,
                            "The President's Trip," April 19, 1891, in BH Papers, Scrapbook
                            volume 10, p. 146, series 16, reel 146.
               
                     bill was an error, and that it was plain and evident to him
                    that the Southern people … can very safely be trusted to manage the public affairs of
                    their own commonwealths with a proper degree of honesty and discretion."41
            
            If some newspapers had inserted racial and regional commentary when Harrison had not touched on such
                    issues, editors were especially critical when the president did address those matters. The 
                  
                            Memphis
                         Appeal–Avalanche judged that Harrison's admonishment of
                    Mayor Clapp was misplaced; the natives of 
                        Memphis
                     needed "no preaching upon that text." The phrase "supremacy
                    of the law" was an endorsement of the Lodge Bill, a "partisan device contrived out
                    of a spirit of sectional hate and for the republican benefit." "When such laws are
                    supreme," the piece continued, "there is an end of liberty." The
                    editorial further suggested that Harrison must have seen that the crowd gathered to hear him was
                    racially mixed, a fact that the newspaper considered sufficient proof that "the relations
                    of the races were harmoniously maintained."42
            
            The 
                  
                            Atlanta
                         Constitution, which had printed an editorial favorable to the president only a
                    few days before, noted that Harrison "did not respond directly to Mayor Clapp's
                    suggestive remark in regard to the preservation of Caucasian supremacy, yet the matter was clearly
                    in his mind." The editorial further opined that Harrison had evaded comment on the issue,
                    not because he was addressing a southern audience, but because of "his knowledge that Mayor
                    Clapp, in declaring for Caucasian supremacy in this country, represents the unanimous sentiment of
                    the American people, without regard to sectional lines or party divisions." In a parting
                    shot at the minority of the popular vote that Harrison had received in the 1888 election, the
                    editorial noted that if majorities really did rule, then "Mr. Harrison would not at this
                    moment be president of the 
                        United States
                    ."43
            
            In the North, meanwhile, the tour had impressed at least one of the president's critics. A
                    largely negative editorial in the anti–administration 
                  
                            New York
                         Evening Post nevertheless praised Harrison's speeches throughout the
                    South. His advocacy of a more peaceful understanding between 
                  
                     41
                            Mobile Daily Register, editorial, "What the President Did Not
                            Say," April 22,1891, in BH Papers, Scrapbook volume 10, p. 171, series 16, reel
                            146.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Memphis
                            
                            Appeal–Avalanche, editorial, "Supremacy of the
                            Law," April 19, 1891, p. 4.
                  
                     43
                            
                        
                                    Atlanta
                                 Constitution, editorial, "Mr. Harrison's 
                                Memphis
                             Speech," April 19,1891, in BH Papers, Scrapbook volume 10, p. 142,
                            series 16, reel 146.
               
                     North and South was "utterly at variance with his
                    record as a narrow sectional partisan," according to the piece. "Day by day the
                    President has been uttering sentiments which not only were characterized by a spirit of
                    patriotism," the editorial continued, "but which also showed that his dull eyes
                    were hourly opening to a clearer perception of the true sources of national feeling and national
                    prosperity." According to the Evening Post, Harrison had finally realized
                    "what all Americans most desire—the unification of our people."
                    Although the jury remained out on Harrison's future, according to the Evening
                        Post, it could not help but be brighter than his past.
            Northern editorials such as the one in the New York Evening Post reveal that
                    southerners were not alone in their notion of what constituted "the people." Many
                    northern whites shared the view that "the people" meant the respectable white
                    people of both North and South. This was made clear by the contrast that the 
                        New York
                     paper saw between Harrison's conciliatory speeches in the South and his
                    "actions in the past, when he figured as the champion of the bloody shirt and the advocate
                    of the Force Bill."44 These efforts toward enforcing the Constitution
                    had drawn the ire of not only the white South but also significant segments of the North.
            Perhaps the most insightful perspective on the tour came from the African American press. These
                    papers had developed during the 1880s and become important mouthpieces for black political opinions.
                    Their editors had good reason for concern about the president's policies. Optimistic after
                    the announcement of Harrison's 1890 legislative plans, they now were concerned that the
                    president was taking a more politically expedient path and abandoning the interests of black
                    citizens. The 
                  
                            Washington
                         Bee provided the most positive reaction to the tour. Hailing the trip as
                    "the most remarkable one ever made by any President," the Bee had nothing but
                    superlatives to describe the president and his reception: "The ovations which he received,
                    and the applause given … indicate a change in the popular sentiment of the
                    south." Never had the race seen a better champion of their rights than Harrison, who had
                    "accomplished more in the way of arousing the south to a consideration of its own interest,
                    and its obligations to the country at large than any other living man."45
            
            
               
                  44 New York Evening Post, editorial, "The Way
                        to 'Unification,'" April 21, 1891, in BH Papers, Scrapbook volume 10,
                        p. 163, series 16, reel 146.
               
                  45
                        
                     
                                Washington
                             Bee, editorial, "President Harrison," May 28, 1891, p.
                        2.
            
            
            By July, T. Thomas Fortune, the acerbic editor of the influential New York Age, was
                    singing a vastly different tune in regard to Harrison's southern travels. One editorial
                    began by remarking on the nice time Harrison had on his trip and observing that both the president
                    and the average citizen had the right to expect such a warm welcome. Fortune warned, however, that
                    there was a side to southern hospitality that was being overlooked. Quoting at length from the 
                  
                            Nashville
                         American, he pointed to the resentment still in the hearts of many white
                    southerners. 
                        Let him not lay the flattering unction to his soul that he has won even the smallest place in
                            the hearts of the Southern people. … Mr. Harrison came as a distinguished guest
                            and as such was received. But his pleasant speeches, though happy in language and sentiment,
                            deceived nobody. The Southern people remembered that he calumniated them before all the
                            world, and the hollow mockery of his newspaper compliments will not erase the recollection
                            of his efforts to deliver them over as the lawful prey of the Negro barbarian and the
                            scallawag [sic] thief.46
                  
                     Fortune went on to remind Harrison of some simple facts. There was no question, he wrote,
                    of the Republican–party loyalty of one class of southerners: "the masses of
                    black men who were true to the Union." He contrasted these black voters with "the
                    masses of the white men who were traitors to the flag and are to–day milliners of the
                    Federal Constitution and villifiers of all who oppose their usurpation and tyranny." Then
                    Fortune laid down what he believed to be two immutable laws: "The white South is
                    Democratic. The black South is Republican. If President Harrison will keep this in mind he will not
                    cast any Republican pearls before Democratic swine so to speak."47
                    Although he did not venture a solution as to how Harrison could overcome the fact that fewer and
                    fewer African Americans were voting in the South, Fortune, who had been an ardent supporter of the
                    Lodge Bill, recommended any measures designed to ensure African Americans' full
                    constitutional rights.
            Taking a similar stance, the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Freeman spent little time on 
                  
                     46 New York Age, editorial, "Information
                            for the President," July 18, 1891, p. 2.
                  
                     47 Ibid.
               
                     the tour itself, instead focusing on the larger context of the
                    journey. The editors observed that northern black voters in key states such as Indiana had provided
                    Harrison's margin of victory in 1888. Despite this, not a single plum of patronage, among
                    the many available to the president, had found its way to black Hoosiers. The sight of the president
                    going to southern communities with the olive branch extended to white southerners was too much for
                    the editors of the Freeman to bear. Harrison had returned to 
                        Washington
                     without a vigorous racial agenda, and months had now passed. In July, the paper
                    observed that "President Harrison has obtained the support of colored men by promises which
                    he is either unable or unwilling to keep."48 In November, still
                    smarting at Harrison's neglect of his black constituency, the Freeman
                    took a shot at both the president's appointments and his appearance:
                    "Harrison the short, belongs to that class of statesmen and philanthropists who are never
                    quite prepared to admit competency in a Negro."49
            
            What did Benjamin Harrison himself believe? The president was certain that he had accurately gauged
                    the reception on the ground, and his own judgments were reinforced by a series of congratulatory
                    letters and telegrams from political allies. One of the first came from fellow Hoosier Clem
                    Studebaker, lauding Harrison's "splendid" journey and assuring the
                    president that "you have the party to your back almost as one man, and the country at large
                    well pleased with what you have done." In his letter of reply, Harrison evaluated the trip:
                    "No description of it has been at all adequate. It was indescribable in the enthusiasm and
                    magnitude and beauty of the receptions and the cordiality of the people." He admitted to
                    initial trepidation of such a daunting tour, " [w]hen I started I felt that I had laid out
                    a great undertaking, and shrunk a little from it; but I have reached home without the smallest
                    accident or untoward incident, and in a first rate condition of health."50
            
            Harrison received praise for his trip and for his speeches from a variety of sources. One letter from
                    the 
                        United States
                    ' legation to Portugal called the journey "a march of
                        triumph." Andrew Carnegie, preparing to set sail 
                  
                     48
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Freeman, editorial, "Has President Harrison Any Real Claim
                            Upon the Colored Vote?," July 25, 1891, p. 4.
                  
                     49
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Freeman, editorial, "The Negro Judgeship," November
                            21, 1891, p. 4.
                  
                     50 Clem Studebaker to Harrison, May 13,1891; Harrison to Studebaker,
                            May 18,1891, both in BH Papers, series 1, reel 31.
               
                     from 
                        New York
                     harbor for his summer vacation, took time to telegraph the president: "Permit
                    me to express the pleasure we have had in following you in your journey. The whole people
                    irrespective of party are proud of such a Pres[iden]t. [T]here is but one voice and that of Praise
                    and Gratitude for what you have done." Harrison was told by a prominent 
                        New York
                     Republican that "[y]our speeches have made a profound impression upon the
                    people. … I never saw such a change in sentiment in thirty days. The newspapers have
                    seemed to vie with each other in saying kind & complimentary words." William B.
                    Allison laid on perhaps the thickest layer of praise, deeming Harrison's speeches
                    "most admirable" and going on to claim that "No living man could have
                    more surely touched the chords of life; or made a better impression." There is little doubt
                    that to Harrison and many other Republicans the tour was a success. It assuaged recent wounds and
                    gave party followers hope for the upcoming election.51
            
            Unfortunately, Harrison and the Republicans harbored false hopes. Harrison's popularity
                    among voters had not increased since the 1888 election, which he won in the electoral college, and
                    by 1891 the president, a few congratulatory letters to the contrary, was not well regarded by most
                    of the Republican elite. The tour had not persuaded large numbers of southerners to change their
                    party allegiance, and it had done little to stem the growth of an upstart third party. Consequently
                    in 1892 the nation turned its eyes to the candidacies of Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     and Benjamin Harrison. Even given the conventions of the time, in which sitting
                    presidents were not supposed to campaign actively, neither candidate showed particular enthusiasm.
                    The excitement of the campaign came from the new People's Party (the heirs of the
                    Farmers' Alliance) and their candidate, James B. Weaver, who tallied 8.5 percent of the
                    popular vote, an impressive showing for the candidate of an infant party. The election revealed
                    that, as Harrison had suspected, the terrain of southern politics was shifting. Unfortunately for
                    the president and his party, the Populists had been able to organize most of the
                    anti–Democratic vote. In the South, still overwhelmingly Democratic, the insurgent
                    Populists drained further votes from the Republican column. Harrison neither won over any Democratic
                    foes nor checked the growth of a new party, and these combined 
                  
                     51 George S. Batahilles to Harrison, May 14, 1891; Andrew Carnegie to
                            Harrison, May 14, 1891; D. S. Alexander to Harrison, May 14, 1891; William B. Allison to
                            Harrison, May 20, 1891; and see also William McKinley to Harrison, June 18, 1891, all in BH
                            Papers, series 1, reel 31.
               
                    
                    
                  An item from the 1892 reelection campaign. Contrary to the message on this
                            rattler, Harrison lost the election to Grover 
                                Cleveland
                            . Courtesy President Benjamin Harrison Research Library
                factors help explain the Hoosier's defeat. African Americans, meanwhile,
                    grudgingly supported Harrison in 1892, largely to prevent a further diminution of their political
                    importance on the national scene. Perhaps the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Freeman summed up black voters' dissatisfaction with Harrison best
                    when the editor asked why there was "any just, logical, or sensible reason why the colored
                    voters of the Northern States … should clamor for the renomination of Mr.
                    Harrison?" The editorial concluded that the "pressing interests of our future as a
                    race, are too valuable to be jeopardized or sacrificed through a spirit of false fealty and
                    sentimentality for  any man who has been weighed in the balance,
                    and found wanting in the true essentials of leadership."52
            
            In sum, all of Harrison's 1891 efforts in the South did little to quell the tide of
                    criticism directed at his party and his administration. What then do we make of his journey? Was
                    that week in April an ephemeral moment in the history of American politics? The impulsive answer
                    would be "yes." With a longer perspective, however, it is apparent that Benjamin
                    Harrison was engaging in the type of activity that would intrigue his Republican presidential
                    successors over the next century. Historians of twentieth–century politics have analyzed
                    Richard Nixon's southern strategy and Ronald Reagan's appeal to southern voters
                    during the 1980 election. That year a Republican candidate won ten of the eleven states of the
                    former Confederacy, and the term "Reagan Democrat" was born.53
                    American life changed dramatically in the years between the Reagan and Harrison administrations, but
                    in the end, those who believed that white southerners ultimately would feel at home in the
                    Republican Party proved to be prophetic. To be sure, there were many necessary catalysts to the
                    change in partisan affiliation, but nevertheless, the roots of the modern transformation run deep.
            There remains a critical question with respect to 1891: what went wrong? Most historians look back on
                    this era and decry the weakness of presidents who could not escape the shadows of the great Abraham
                    Lincoln at one end of the period and Theodore Roosevelt at the other. They also chide the Republican
                    Party for abandoning African Americans after Reconstruction, even though it is evident that the
                    nation as a whole showed little enthusiasm for rebuilding the South, particularly after the end of
                    Grant's first term in 1873. The most frequent refrain from recent academics centers on the
                    theme of racial justice, i.e., that presidents should have been more willing to use
                    force—in the form of military troops—to enforce the Constitution. In
                    Harrison's era, however, the political willpower simply was not there. The
                    president's 1891 journey had decisively proven 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, editorial, July 25, 1891.
                  
                     53 The two best studies placing race and modem Republicanism in a
                            larger interpretive framework are George 
                                Brown
                             Tindall, The Disruption of the Solid South (
                                Athens
                            , Ga., 1972); and Dan T. Carter, From George Wallace to Newt
                                Gingrich: Race in the Conservative Counterrevolution, 1963–1994 (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1996). I embrace the wide perspective employed by both authors. A more
                            sympathetic look at Nixon and race can be found in Dean J. Kotlowski, Nixon's Civil Rights: Politics, Principle, and Policy (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 2001).
               
                     that. If military force was not an option, then various
                    coalitions between whites—northern and southern—and blacks, based on trust and
                    goodwill, were, in theory, a potential alternative.
            Yet, as many southern editorials from 1891 had made clear, the power struggle between black and white
                    was so severe that it negated any possible compromise. Some state–level exceptions
                    existed, as in 
                        North Carolina
                    , where Republicans and Populists forged bi–party governments between 1894
                    and 1898, but these were few and far between. As northern Republicans like Harrison tried to make
                    inroads with southern whites, they realized that none of their gestures of compromise were
                    reciprocated by their southern counterparts. When the Republicans tired of such conciliation, they
                    gambled by introducing their 1890 legislation dealing with education and voting rights. To many
                    suspicious white southern eyes the proposed laws looked like a second reconstruction, and the
                    southern elites who had regained power were not about to lose it again. Once it became clear that 
                        Mississippi
                    's methods for disfranchising its black population would not be forcefully
                    rebuked by the federal government, other southern states followed suit. Disfranchisement, the
                    official sanction of segregation in the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson ruling, and the
                    horrific number of lynchings during the 1890s proved to black Americans that they had few friends
                    willing to protect them.
            Indeed, despite the talk of the sections coming together in racial harmony, what was more immediate
                    in the wake of Harrison's journey was sectional discord. Hyper–sectionalism,
                    rather than hyper–nationalism.'best characterized the 
                        United States
                    . The southern tour consequently confirmed historian Rayford Logan's claim that
                    Harrison's attempt "to reopen the 'Southern question' had
                    provoked a counteroffensive from which the South emerged even more triumphant that it had in
                        1877."54 That was the ultimate tragedy of the president's
                    journey. Had Benjamin Harrison possessed the skills to balance his divergent constituencies, he
                    would be remembered as one of our most significant statesmen. Instead, his flanking movements with
                    respect to the political problems of the day remind us how confounding the relationship between
                    race, region, and Republicanism had become in late nineteenth–century America.
            
               
                  54 Logan, Betrayal of the Negro, 87.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Archives
            African American History
            JOHN M. GLEN, STEPHEN G. MCSHANE, BRENDA NELSON–STRAUSS, PAUL C. HEYDE, AND WILMA L.
                    GIBBS
            Half a century after the landmark Supreme Court decision in 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     v. Board of Education of 
                     Topeka,
                                Kansas
                  
                (1954), and four decades
                    since the passage of the momentous Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Indiana Archives series assesses
                    some of the state's archival holdings in African American history. These featured
                    collections document the variegated record of black experiences in Indiana, a record that contains
                    remarkable and precedent–setting achievements as well as innumerable instances of
                    discrimination and resistance.
            During much of the first half of the twentieth century, black Indianans commonly faced discrimination
                    at restaurants, hotels, hospitals, theaters, and public schools and beaches. And while the Great
                    Migration brought increasing numbers of blacks to the state, whites sometimes reacted vehemently, as
                    in the case of the prolonged strike at Gary's Froebel High School in 1945 demanding the
                    removal of black students. Public schools—at the 
                  John M. Glen, general editor of the Indiana Archives series, is professor of history, Ball
                            State University, 
                                Muncie
                            . Contributors to this installment of the series are Stephen G. McShane,
                            librarian, archivist/curator, Calumet Regional Archives, and interim library director,
                            Indiana University Northwest Library, Gary; Brenda Nelson–Strauss, head of
                            collections, Archives of African American Music and Culture, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; Paul C. Heyde, archivist and head of public and technology services, Black
                            Film Center/Archive, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; and Wilma L. Gibbs, archivist, African American history, Indiana Historical
                            Society.
               
                     primary, secondary, and university levels—reacted
                    slowly to the Indiana General Assembly's 1949 legislation abolishing public school
                    segregation. Some positive changes occurred in the 1950s—more jobs became available to
                    African Americans in the post–war era, and the state basketball championships won by the
                    all–black teams at Crispus Attucks High School in 1955 and 1956 helped influence
                    subsequent school desegregation— yet exclusion from public accommodations and
                    discrimination in housing and employment persisted.
            The General Assembly enacted a series of civil rights measures in the early 1960s that were in some
                    cases more extensive than federal laws of that decade, yet the state's African Americans
                    confronted new challenges. Shifting residential patterns and official inaction made genuine school
                    desegregation difficult, prompting the 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the NAACP to file a lawsuit against the city's public school
                    system. The suit sparked a prolonged legal battle that ultimately resulted in the
                    large–scale busing of students within most of the city beginning in 1980, a solution that
                    was never fully satisfactory and was already being phased out at the end of the twentieth century.
                    Court orders and school reorganization plans also settled desegregation suits in a number of other
                    Indiana communities. Meanwhile, a growing number of black voters and the rising prominence of racial
                    issues helped elect Richard Hatcher mayor of Gary in 1967—one of the first African
                    American mayors of a major American city. Hatcher and his successors, however, struggled to offset
                    the long–term economic decline of the Calumet region. In 1972, Gary took center stage in
                    the initiative to broaden black political power when it hosted the National Black Caucus, and
                    increasing black migration to urban industrial centers throughout the state continued to heighten
                    the political visibility of African Americans. Nevertheless, black protest in Indiana remained
                    largely moderate, nonviolent, and well within conventional political channels.
            The new century finds Indiana, like the rest of the nation, with two black populations: one, the
                    steadily growing number of entrepreneurs, professionals, college students, and
                    middle–class homeowners (epitomized by the rise to prominence within the state and nation
                    of the three–and–one–half–decade–old Indiana
                    Black Expo in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ); another, comprising poorer households, often headed by a single parent, still trapped
                    in deteriorating older neighborhoods, confronting crime and rocky relations with local law
                    enforcement, and faced with inadequate educational and employment opportunities and an array of
                    attendant social problems.
            In short, African American communities in Indiana have become increasingly diverse in the fifty years
                    since the 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     ruling, and the contributors 
                    
                  An excited crowd awaits the premiere of The Color Purple at
                            the Indiana (now Buskirk–Chumley) Theater in 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1985. Courtesy Black Film Center/Archive, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                to this year's Indiana Archives series suggest some of the resources available to
                    explore this often dramatic story, as well as the cultural trends that informed it. Stephen G.
                    McShane surveys the range of collections at the Calumet Regional Archives, particularly those
                    accessioned in the past ten years, that help document the educational challenges faced by African
                    Americans in Gary as well as the rise of black power in local labor and political arenas, the latter
                    trend mirrored by the establishment of various cultural organizations in the city. The next two
                    essays offer alternative avenues for exploring African American culture. Brenda
                    Nelson–Strauss, introducing the musical materials found at the Archives of African
                    American Music and Culture at Indiana University, sets the origins of the movement to collect
                    African Americana in the context of the civil rights events of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Paul
                    C. Heyde makes a similar case for the use of the films and related collections at the
                    university's Black Film Center/Archive. Finally, Wilma L. Gibbs considers the Indiana  Historical Society's archival holdings in African
                    American history, highlights some records that have attracted the greatest attention over the years,
                    and identifies those areas of the state's African American presence still in need of
                    documentation. Together these essayists clearly articulate the need—and the
                    opportunity—to complement Indiana's civil rights history by tracing the more
                    subtle and far–reaching economic, musical, cinematic, and athletic accomplishments taking
                    place around it.
            THE CALUMET REGIONAL ARCHIVES, INDIANA UNIVERSITY NORTHWEST LIBRARY: HOLDINGS IN AFRICAN AMERICAN
                    HISTORY
            In 1973, IU Northwest Professors Ronald D. Cohen and James B. Lane established the Calumet Regional
                    Archives (CRA) to collect, preserve, and make available records and papers documenting the history
                    of Lake and Porter Counties.1 Primarily a twentieth–century
                    repository in scope, the CRA maintains over four hundred distinct archival and manuscript
                    collections of correspondence, minutes, scrapbooks, programs, pamphlets, reports, photographs, maps,
                    films, videotapes, and sound recordings. While many of these collections are small (one linear foot
                    or less), virtually all of them possess some form of finding aid, from detailed inventories to
                    hand–written abstracts. About one–half of them are described online.2 The holdings of the Calumet Regional Archives are particularly
                    well–suited to the study of African American history, education, labor, civil rights and
                    black power, and the arts—especially in the predominantly black city of Gary.
            
               Education, 1920s–1940s. Among the CRAs collections dealing with the
                    history of Gary's school system, a few document the African American experience. A small
                    collection of personal files from long–time teacher Ida B. King (CRA 326) provides some
                    data on African American education, 
                  
                     1 The Calumet Regional Archives, IU Northwest Library is located at
                            3400 
                                Broadway
                            , Gary, IN 46408. For more information call (219) 980–6628; contact
                            archivist Stephen McShane (smcshane@iun.edu); or visit the website,
                            http://www.iun.edu/~lib/crahome.htm. The 1995 Indiana Archives article included an essay
                            describing the Calumet Regional Archives' holdings on Indiana history since 1945.
                            That article—as well as all of the archive series, including pieces on regional,
                            Civil War, and oral history holdings—can be accessed at
                            http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist/classic_articles.html.
                  
                     2 See IU'S online catalog IUCAT,
                            http://www.iucat.iu.edu; or consult a librarian for assistance with the OCLC and RLIN
                            bibliographic utilities. In addition, about one–half of the Archives'
                            collection inventories are available on the CRA website.
               
                     particularly at the segregated Roosevelt High School, built in
                    response to the Emerson School Strike of 1927, when hundreds of white students walked out after
                    administrators transferred black students to the school.3 A file labeled
                    "Froebel Strike" in Director of Industrial Education Guy Wulfing's papers
                    (CRA 107) contains memoranda, petitions, and other documents related to the Froebel Strike of 1945,
                    when white students boycotted classes in protest of Froebel's being the only
                    mixed–race school in the city. This episode drew national attention, including a visit by
                    singer Frank Sinatra urging students to halt the strike.
            Fortunately, the archives also retain a few collections from local historians. Ronald D. Cohen
                    donated extensive research files on the history of the Gary school system gathered while preparing
                        Children of the Mill: Schooling and Society in Gary, Indiana,
                    1906–1960 (1990). His personal papers, including his correspondence and copies of
                    his articles, are housed in the CRAs University Archives section. Raymond A. Mohl also donated many
                    of his research files compiled for his book, authored along with Neil Betten, Steel
                        City: Urban and Ethnic Patterns in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1950 (1986), and this
                    collection (CRA 242)4 contains some papers related to the black experience in
                    the Gary schools.
            
               Labor, 1940s–1960s. Industrial unionism has been a major theme in the
                    history of northwest Indiana. After World War II, the United Steel–workers of America
                    (USWA) rose rapidly to power in the Calumet region. The Calumet Regional Archives hold thirty
                    collections of records from local USWA labor leaders and a few collections from other local unions.
                    Several of these collections document the emergence of black union members seeking the ear of white
                    USWA local and international leadership. The most complete collection—the records of USWA
                    Local 1010, Inland Steel, East 
                        Chicago
                     (CRA 115)3—offer particularly strong coverage of the
                    period 1940–1965 and detail African American positions regarding wages, hours, and
                    working conditions. In addition, a series of strike fliers offers useful data on several major
                    strikes during the era, particularly the 116–day steel strike of 1959. Minute books
                    dating from the 1940s to the 1960s offer useful information on the actions by African Americans to
                    secure a greater presence in the steelworkers' unions. Labor historian Ruth 
                  
                     3 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra326.htm.
                  
                     4 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra242.htm.
                  
                     5 View a collection inventory at
                        http://www.iun.edu/~lib/crall5.htm.
               
                     Needleman used information from several collections in her
                    recent book, Black Freedom Fighters in Steel: The Struggle for Democratic Unionism
                        (2003).6
            
            
               Civil Rights and Black Political Power, 1940s–1970s. The struggle for
                    civil rights in northwest Indiana mirrored national events. Early civil rights events in the 1940s
                    and 1950s included the desegregation of Miller Beach along Lake Michigan and
                    the employment of African Americans in Gary's downtown department stores. The Clifford E.
                    Minton Papers (CRA 160)7 chronicle those episodes and many others during
                    Minton's tenure as head of the Gary Urban League from 1949 to 1965. The Jeanette Strong
                    Papers (CRA 79) contain a brief record of the Gary NAACP activities, including photographs of an
                    open housing march down 
                        Broadway
                     in 1963.
            The 1967 election in Gary of Richard Gordon Hatcher as one of the first black mayors of a major
                    American city is often identified with the rise of local black political power. While the archives
                    do not contain Hatcher's papers, various small collections provide information on the
                    Hatcher era, spanning the years 1967–1987. For example, the CRA has begun a Richard
                    Hatcher Collection (CRA 86), a grouping of discrete items about the mayor, such as campaign
                    materials and photographs. The Henry Coleman Papers (CRA 277)8 retain various
                    reports and news articles about the Hatcher elections in 1967 and 1971 and the city
                    controller's office in the early 1970s. Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, programs, and
                    campaign materials in the Charlene Crowell Papers (CRA 321)9 furnish information
                    on the later years of the Hatcher administration. Finally, a few materials about the Gary Human
                    Relations Commission and various Hatcher city programs are housed in the Leonard Dreyfus Papers (CRA
                        268).10
            
            In the past few years, the archives accessioned several additional collections dealing with the
                    African American experience in Gary. Former Gary Mayor Thomas V Barnes, who succeeded Hatcher in
                    1988, donated 
                  
                     6 For example, the USWA Local 1011 Records, LTV Steel, East 
                                Chicago
                             (CRA 121), hup:// www.iun.edu/~lib/cral21.htm; the John Howard Papers on USS
                            Subdistrict 1 and Local 1014 (CRA 141), http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cral41.htm; the Kelsie Heard
                            Papers on Local 1066 (CRA 318), http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra318.htm; and the John Oglesby
                            Papers on Local 1066 at Gary Sheet and Tin (CRA 119).
                  
                     7 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cral60.htm.
                  
                     8 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra277.htm.
                  
                     9 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra321.htm.
                  
                     10 View a collection inventory at
                        http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra268.htm.
               
                    
                    
                  Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary, n.d. Hatcher was one of the first black mayors
                            of a large American city. Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives
                over eighty boxes of files documenting his mayoralty (CRA 276). Among the topics covered
                    are the arrival of casino gambling in Gary and the development of the Gary/
                        Chicago
                     airport. Correspondence files from the mayor's office, along with a run of
                    documents from the Gary Office of Public Affairs, furnish insight into the city's efforts
                    to reverse its declines of the 1970s and 1980s.11
            
            Other related files on Gary civic affairs are also available. Thomas J. Crump has been involved in
                    Gary politics for several decades, including 
                  
                     11 The Barnes collection has not been processed fully; contact the
                            Archives for more information.
               
                     several terms on the Gary City Council, service as Calumet
                    Township Trustee, and a mayoral candidacy in 1983. His collection (CRA 413)12
                    spans the period from 1969 to the present, containing several files of personal correspondence and
                    information on local politics, the Gary/
                        Chicago
                     Airport, the Gary Educational Development Foundation, Images of Hope, Ivy Tech State
                    College, and the Gary Runnin' Rebels. The Dozier T. Allen Papers (CRA 435), comprising
                    several very large scrapbooks, document Allen's career in 
                        Lake County
                     politics, from his post as Calumet Township Trustee to his mayoral campaigns opposing
                    Hatcher.
            
               The Arts, 1950s–1990s. The CRA has acquired several interesting
                    collections in the area of African American arts and culture. Alger Boswell— an actor,
                    teacher, director, and writer in Gary—donated his collection of local theater programs
                    and pamphlets to the archives in 1996 (CRA 394).13 The materials encompass
                    productions sponsored by groups ranging from the Gary Community School Corporation and IU Northwest
                    to such community theater groups as the Gary Music Theater and The Company Players; they also
                    include programs from numerous local organizations and events, including the Miss Gary and Miss
                    Black America pageants. The Morning Bishop Papers (CRA 218)14 contain
                    correspondence, playbills, press releases, photographs, and other materials which trace the Morning
                    Bishop Theater Playhouse from its founding in 1983 to the mid–1990s. Area
                    black–owned media companies are represented in part by the Vivian Carter Papers (CRA 217)
                    which, although very small, provide some data on the history of Vee–Jay Records.
                    Established in Gary in 1953, the Veejay label—the name taken from the first initials of
                    Vivian and her husband James Bracken—signed recording contracts with some early
                    doo–wop acts, including the Spaniels (‘Goodnight, Sweetheart,
                    Goodnight") and the Magnificents, along with some well–known groups such as the
                    Four Seasons. In addition, Vee–Jay signed a little–known group from Liverpool
                    to its first recording contract in the 
                        United States
                    . Unfortunately, the company lost the Beatles' American recording contract to
                    Capitol Records in 1963.
            
               
                  12 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra413.htm.
               
                  13 View a collection inventory at http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra394.htm.
               
                  14 View a collection inventory at
                    http://www.iun.edu/~lib/cra218.htm.
            
            
            THE ARCHIVES OF AFRICAN AMERICAN MUSIC AND CULTURE, INDIANA UNIVERSITY, BLOOMINGTON
            The Archives of African American Music and Culture (AAAMC) is a repository of materials documenting
                    various black musical idioms and cultural expressions—including popular, religious, and
                    classical music and black radio—dating primarily from the post–World War II
                        era.15 The diverse collections include oral histories, photographs, musical
                    and print manuscripts, audio and video recordings, scores and sheet music, books and serials,
                    posters, and other artifacts and ephemera. Holdings are divided between the general collection,
                    consisting of published materials (books, recordings, and videos) that may be circulated for
                    teaching purposes, and special collections, consisting of unpublished and/or unique materials
                    subject to various levels of restricted access. Though national in scope, the AAAMC's
                    holdings reflect artists and styles that have had a significant impact upon the musical and cultural
                    heritage of the Midwest through mass media as well as through the constant ebb and flow of African
                    American musicians passing from the deep South through 
                  Nashville, Indianapolis
               , Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and Gary to 
                        Chicago
                     and other northern cities.
            Academic repositories devoted to black music, especially popular music, are a fairly recent
                    phenomenon. Following the emergence of African American Studies departments during the 1970s, a few
                    academic libraries and archives took steps to accession black music. The predominant focus, however,
                    was typically on compositions by African American classical composers, and the collecting of popular
                    genres was usually restricted to jazz or blues.16 The IU School of Music, for
                    example, formed a Black Music Committee following the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
                    in 1968 and, by 1970, had established a Black Music Collection through a grant from the National
                    Endowment for the Humanities. At present, the Black Music Collection at the Cook Music Library
                    includes 
                  
                     15 The Archives of African American Music and Culture, IU 
                                Bloomington
                            , is located at Smith Research Center, Suites 180–181, 2805 E. Tenth
                            Street, 
                                Bloomington
                            , IN 47408–2601. For more information call (812) 855–8547,
                            or visit the website, http://www.indiana.edu/~aaamc.
                  
                     16 Suzanne Flandreau states that the term "black
                            music" continues to be associated almost exclusively with blues and jazz,
                            "Black Music in the Academy: The Center for Black Music Research," Notes: Quarterly Journal of the Music Library Association, 55 (September
                            1998), 26.
               
                     over three thousand books, scores, and commercial recordings
                    covering all aspects of black musical expression. Most of the scores and recordings fall into the
                    classical and jazz idioms, supporting the IU School of Music curriculum, though many of the books
                    encompass popular music topics.17
            
            As scholars subsequently began to take a broader view of social and cultural issues, the role of
                    music in African American culture was recognized as an integral part of daily life, resulting in a
                    greater scholarly emphasis on popular and religious genres such as blues, gospel, soul, and, more
                    recently, hip–hop. Over the past two decades, a number of institutions and museums have
                    been formed to preserve the historical record of these traditions, from the Blues Archive at the
                    University of 
                        Mississippi
                     to the Motown Historical Museum in 
                        Detroit
                     and the Center for Black Music Research at 
                        Columbia
                     College in 
                        Chicago
                    .18 Founded in 1991 as part of this growing movement to study and
                    document black popular music, the AAAMC is a relative newcomer, yet it remains one of the only
                    academic institutions with an emphasis on post–World War II African American popular
                    music genres. The AAAMC holdings are supplemented by other collections on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, including those at the Cook Music Library as well as the extensive jazz and
                    early African American field recording collections at the Archives of Traditional Music.19 The combination of these three research collections has established the IU 
                        Bloomington
                     campus as a major research center for the study of black music.
            Since popular music is most frequently documented and studied through recorded sound, commercial
                    recordings—ranging from 45s to LPs and CDs—form the core of the
                    AAAMC's general collection. Though many sound archives focus on collecting original issues
                    of recordings, a resurgence of interest in earlier forms of black popular
                    music—particularly among deejays, hip–hop artists, and European
                    collectors—has resulted in extremely high prices for many blues, rhythm and blues
                    (R&B), and soul recordings on 78s and LPs. Consequently, due to both budget and space
                    constraints, the AAAMC primarily collects CDs, including both 
                  
                     17 The William and Gayle Cook Music Library,
                            http://www.music.indiana.edu/muslib.html, is located in the Simon Music Center.
                  
                     18 Onhne information is available for the Blues Archive at the
                            University of 
                                Mississippi
                            , http:// www.olemiss.edu/depts/general_library/files/archives/blues; the Motown
                            Historical Museum, http:// www.motownmuseum.com; and the Center for Black Music Research in 
                                Chicago
                            , http://www. cbmr.org.
                  
                     19 Archives of Traditional Music,
                            http://www.indiana.edu/–libarchm/, is located in Morrison Hall.
               
                    
                    
                  In 1968, the Gary–based Steeltown record label released the first
                            recording by Indiana's legendary Jackson Five: "Big Boy" and
                            "You've Changed." Courtesy IU Archives of African American Music
                            and Culture
                new releases and reissues, but gratefully accepts donations of other formats. A wide range
                    of musical styles and artists are represented, covering both sacred and secular traditions, from
                    pre–World War II blues and gospel to post–World War II R&B and
                    contemporary hip–hop. Each of these genres can be associated with a specific historical
                    period, social context, and function, and the song lyrics can be used to examine the experiences and
                    responses of African Americans to their position as a marginalized group in society.20 For example, the soul music of the sixties and seventies paralleled the emergence of
                    the civil rights and black power movements, and songs such as Sam Cooke's "A
                    Change is Gonna Come" and James 
                  
                     20 Portia K. Maultsby and Isaac Kalumbu,
                            "African–American Studies," in Continuum
                                Encyclopedia of Popular Music of the World, vol. 1, Media, Industry
                                and Society, eds. John Shepherd, David Horn, David Laing, Paul Oliver, and Peter
                            Wicke (
                                New York
                            , 2003), 47–54.
               
                     Brown's "Say It Loud, I'm Black and
                    I'm Proud" both reflected the goals of the movements and went on to exert a
                    profound impact on an entire generation of African Americans. These soul anthems are frequently
                    requested for classroom lectures, while other soul and R&B recordings are regularly used for
                    programming purposes by IU's Soul Revue ensemble, bringing the music to the attention of a
                    younger generation. An extensive hip–hop collection has also been compiled to support a
                    popular survey course that examines hip–hop as an artistic, historical, and sociocultural
                    phenomenon. Efforts are currently underway to increase the documentation of Indiana recording
                    artists such as the Jackson Five, soul and gospel singer Deniece Williams, R&B artist Kenny
                    "Babyface" Edmonds, and the 1940s vocal group The Ink Spots, as well as
                    Indiana–based record labels such as Lamp, Steeltown, and Knap Town.
            More than four hundred commercial videos and DVDs supplement the recorded sound collection.
                    Approximately half are music videos by hip–hop and contemporary R&B artists such
                    as Janet Jackson, rapper Ice T, and hip–hop pioneer Afrika Bambaata, that were
                    distributed by record companies as promotional vehicles during the 1980s and early 1990s. As it has
                    become increasingly difficult to obtain publicity materials from the major labels, promotional
                    videos produced during the past decade are, unfortunately, not represented. The other half of the
                    moving image collection consists of documentaries and television programs on various black music and
                    history topics, in addition to movies with soundtracks featuring African American artists. A number
                    of classroom lectures and interviews with visiting artists and scholars have also been filmed for
                    research purposes. Reference books, magazines, posters, and published sheet music round out the
                    general collection.
            The most distinctive materials in the AAAMC are to be found in the more than one hundred special
                    collections, including the personal papers of several individuals and organizations. A number of
                    important special collections focus on popular music. The largest is the collection of Karen
                    Shearer, who began her career as a publicist for Capitol Records before moving to the Westwood One
                    Radio Network around 1980, where, for the next decade, she worked as a producer for Special Edition, a weekly program featuring the music of popular black recording artists.
                    Researchers have access to cassette copies of the original radio programs, interview and program
                    transcripts, and over two thousand publicity photos and press releases collected by Shearer during
                    the course of her career. The personal papers of prominent author Phyl Garland, a former columnist
                         for Stereo Review and the 
                        Chicago
                    –based Ebony magazine, are similar in scope, with over nine
                    hundred publicity photographs, biographies, and press releases from record companies covering
                    various artists and genres from R&B to reggae. Motown, the music spawned in the
                    "Motor City," is documented through the research of Charles Sykes, who currently
                    teaches a course on the history of Motown at IU and serves as director of the university's
                    African American Arts Institute. In addition, a recent donation by noted author Nelson George
                    includes extensive primary and secondary source materials collected during the course of his
                    research for Where Did Our Love Go?: The Rise and Fall of the Motown Sound (1985).
                    Several collections contribute to the understanding of rap, the dominant form of African American
                    popular music over the past twenty years, incuding a donation of lectures and interviews by
                    hip–hop activist Harry Allen. A number of small collections also focus on particular
                    genres or artists: the Charles Connor Collection, documenting the career of Little
                    Richard's original drummer; the Susan Oehler Collection of interviews with Indiana and 
                        Chicago
                     blues musicians; and the Patrice Rushen Collection, highlighting the work of the
                    renowned singer, songwriter, producer, and AAAMC board member.
            Interviews and oral histories form the basis of several additional popular music collections. Michael
                    Lydon, author of Ray Charles: Man & Music (1998), recently donated ninety
                    original audiocassette recordings of interviews conducted between 1994 and 1997 with Charles and his
                    family, friends, and associates. These unique conversations serve as important primary source
                    materials for anyone wishing to delve further into the life of the legendary R&B singer,
                    whose first number one pop hit was "
                        Georgia
                     on My Mind" (written by 
                        Bloomington
                     native Hoagy Carmichael) and whose music contributed significantly to the breakdown of
                    the rigid racial divide of the 1950s and 1960s. The Rhythm and Blues Foundation, based in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , selected the AAAMC as the repository for research materials compiled during the
                    production of the syndicated National Public Radio program Let the Good Times
                    Roll, the first major, multipart documentary series devoted to telling the often forgotten or
                    overlooked stories of the pioneers of R&B—the music that became rock and roll.
                    Over seventy–five in–depth interviews detail the history of R&B music
                    from 1940 to 1960, while also addressing issues of race, segregation, and representation through a
                    variety of topics: how R&B crossed over from an almost exclusively African American audience
                    to a white audience through artists such as Chuck Berry and Fats Domino; the general  treatment of artists while touring and performing in the South; the
                    migration of southern artists to northern cities; and the refusal of record companies to place
                    images of African Americans on album covers.
            Two additional collections are of particular regional interest. Record Row: Cradle of
                        Rhythm & Blues contains interviews with many legendary artists collected during the
                    production of a 1997 WTTW television documentary about 
                        Chicago
                    's R&B industry and the Chess, Chance, Vee–Jay, and
                    Brunswick record companies. Something in the Water: The Sweet Sound of 
                            Dayton
                         Street Funk consists of photographs and interviews compiled for an exhibit at
                    the National Afro–American Museum and Cultural Center in 
                  Wilberforce, Ohio
               . Conversations with musicians, teachers, record store owners, deejays,
                    politicians, historians, and sociologists in and around 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               —the
                    home of the largest number of successful funk bands in the country—relate the
                    little–known history of 
                        Ohio
                    's contributions to the funk movement. Beginning with the street funk sounds of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     Players and evolving into the party–funk and electro–funk styles
                    as performed by the bands 
                        Dayton
                    , Slave, and Lakeside, the music, lyrics, theatrical productions, and marketing methods
                    of these 
                        Dayton
                     groups had a significant impact upon popular culture during the 1970s and 1980s.
                    Various 
                        Indianapolis
                    –based funk groups of the mid–1970s are also profiled in a
                    collection recently deposited by historian Jeff Kollath.
            Gospel music, rooted in African traditions and spirituals and referencing the social injustices
                    endured during slavery and the subsequent years of segregation, is one of the most significant and
                    enduring African American music genres. Yet in terms of the systematic collection, preservation, and
                    analysis of the music, gospel has not enjoyed the same degree of scholarly attention given to other
                    idioms such as jazz or blues.21 Though the AAAMC has made efforts to chronicle
                    gospel's performers and traditions more fully, its holdings in this area are still modest.
                    Most notable are the personal papers of 
                        Arizona
                     Juanita Dranes—a blind female sanctified singer and pianist from 
                        Texas
                    —that document her 1926–1928 
                        Chicago
                     recording sessions for Okeh Records. As contracts and correspondence detailing
                    financial arrangements between early black recording artists and record companies are very rare, the
                    Dranes collection is extremely significant. Holdings of a more contemporary nature include the Bobby
                        
                  
                     21 Daniel Walker, "The Gospel Music History
                            Project," project proposal, email to author, February 16, 2004.
               
                     Jones Gospel Music Collection, which sheds light on the
                    remarkable career of the 
                        Kentucky
                     native and executive producer/host of Bobby Jones Gospel, the first
                    and only nationally syndicated black gospel television show. Debbie May, a gospel producer formerly
                    based in 
                        Bloomington
                    , donated a large number of commercial videos and recordings of gospel music
                    performances, including several by 
                        Indianapolis
                    –based Tyscot Records, one of the nation's oldest African
                    American–owned–and –operated gospel record labels. IU professor
                    Mellonee Burnim, who teaches several courses on black religious music, deposited over one hundred
                    hours of audio and video field recordings and interviews documenting worship services, funerals, and
                    gospel music concerts, many within the state of Indiana. Educators may be particularly interested in
                    a complete set of cassettes and curriculum guides from the twenty–six–part
                    radio series Wade in the Water: African American Sacred Music Traditions. Produced
                    in 1993 by National Public Radio and the Smithsonian Institution, the series provides an overview of
                    two centuries of sacred music, from spirituals to contemporary gospel.
            Though the AAAMC's primary focus is on popular music, several past initiatives have led to
                    the development of four unique classical music collections. The Undine Smith Moore Collection
                    contains several of Moore's compositions, in addition to a selection of music manuscripts
                    from some of the leading black composers of the twentieth century. Similar in nature is the Black
                    Composers Collection, encompassing published scores and recordings. Complementing the musical scores
                    are cassette recordings for Landscapes in Color, a series of interviews with
                    prominent African American composers conducted by former IU professor William Banfield; and The Black Composer Speaks, featuring interviews conducted by David N. Baker
                    (IU's distinguished jazz professor), Herman C. Hudson (founder of IU's Department
                    of Afro–American Studies), and Lida M. Belt during research for a 1978 publication of the
                    same name.
            One of the chief non–musical strengths of the AAAMC is the extensive documentation of
                    black radio, a topic that has received an increasing amount of scholarly attention in recent years.
                    In 1996, AAAMC Director Portia K. Maultsby served as a consultant for the Peabody
                    Award–winning program Black Radio: Telling It Like It Was (1996),
                    produced by Radio Smithsonian. The groundbreaking thirteen–part series, covering the
                    period from the 1920s to the present, addresses the role of radio in transforming the African
                    American community. The collaborative relationship between the AAAMC and Radio Smithsonian led to
                    the deposit of over four hundred hours of interviews as well as substantial production files,  photographs, articles, newspaper clippings, historical radio
                    air checks, and contemporary radio programs. Of particular regional interest are profiles of black
                    radio stations and personalities in 
                        Chicago
                    , Gary, 
                  Detroit, Nashville
               , and 
                        Memphis
                    . Also included are rare interviews with over one hundred fifty well–known
                    disc jockeys, radio professionals, record company executives, journalists, and scholars.
                    Interviewees include 
                        Chicago
                     deejays Al Benson, Jack Cooper, and Richard Stamz; soul singer James Brown, who once
                    owned three radio stations; recording artists and former deejays B. B. King and Ike Turner; radio
                    personalities Eddie OJay, Tom Joyner, and Wolfman Jack; and pioneering female deejays Martha Jean
                    "The Queen" Steinberg and "Chattie Hattie" Leeper. The
                    interviews touch on a very broad range of topics, including the rhyming style of black deejays and
                    other oral traditions; payola and the record industry; the history of black radio stations and
                    deejays and their role during the civil rights movement; racism, segregation, and cultural
                    crossover; and the impact of Amos 'n' Andy and other
                    "blackface" programs.
            In addition to the documentary production materials, an extensive collection of original radio shows
                    provides an opportunity to assess the personalities and vocal styles of deejays during an era when
                    radio announcers exerted significant influence in the black community. Johnny Otis, the R&B
                    pioneer whose multiple talents include bandleader, record producer, television host, and disc
                    jockey, donated over eight hundred hours of The Johnny Otis Show. These radio
                    programs highlighting blues, R&B, and jazz music are interspersed with interviews of the
                    performers including Little Esther Phillips, Mary Wells, the Coasters, and Etta James. The Lee
                    Bailey Collection contains over five hundred radio programs from the weekly series Radioscope and Hip Hop Countdown, featuring black popular music from the
                    1980s and 1990s. Several additional collections document radio personalities and historians through
                    personal papers and photographs: "Jockey Jack" Gibson, the popular 
                        Atlanta
                     disc jockey; Douglass "Jocko" Henderson, the nation's first
                    "rappin' deejay"; Vy Higginsen, the first woman to have a primetime black
                    radio slot in 
                  New York; Houston
                deejays Skipper Lee Frazier, Travis Gardner, Rick Roberts,
                    and George Nelson; black radio pioneer Eddie Castleberry; and William Barlow, former professor of
                    communications at Howard University and author of one of the foremost books on the history of black
                        radio.22
            
            The AAAMC also offers a wide range of programs that showcase se– 
                  
                     22 William Barlow, Voice Over: The Making of Black
                            Radio (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1999).
               
                     lected collections and disseminate information about the
                    musical and cultural history of African Americans. Over the past five years, the AAAMC has worked
                    with IU's Teaching and Learning Technologies Centers to construct three multimedia
                    instructional web sites for use in future interactive workshops for teachers, high school students,
                    scholars, and international visitors. Soon to be accessible throughout the IU campuses, these
                    websites—on hip–hop music and culture, black American popular music, and a
                    general survey of African American music—will provide participants with a virtual visit
                    to the Archives. The AAAMC has also sponsored lectures and workshops on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus by renowned scholars, journalists, performing artists, and radio personalities.
                    Because the AAAMC operates as a unit independent of the library system and is not currently a
                    participant in IU's online library catalog, the public is often not aware of the
                    Archives' significant holdings. Several initiatives are currently underway that should
                    greatly improve the AAAMC's website and increase access to information about its
                    collections, including finding aids and possibly an online catalog. In these and various other ways,
                    the AAAMC continues to move forward with its mission of collecting, preserving, and making materials
                    on African American music and culture available to students, scholars, performers, and the general
                    public.
            THE BLACK FILM CENTER/ARCHIVE, INDIANA UNIVERSITY, BLOOMINGTON: PRESERVING THE LEGACY OF BLACK
                    CULTURE
            While black filmmakers and actors have contributed to the film industry throughout the twentieth
                    century—from Oscar Micheaux, the South Dakota homesteader and film pioneer who began his
                    career with the 1919 silent film The Homesteaders, to the two–time
                    Academy Award–winning actor, Denzel 
                        Washington
                    —they went largely overlooked before the 1970s. Founded in 1981 through the
                    collaborative efforts of the Afro–American Studies Department and Phyllis R. Klotman, the
                    Black Film Center/Archive (BFC/A) collects and preserves films and related materials (such as
                    interviews, screenplays, photographs, and posters) created by and about African Americans and the
                    entire African diaspora.23 The BFC/A also recog– 
                  
                     23 The Black Film Center/Archive is located at Smith Research Center,
                            Suite 180, 2805 E. Tenth Street, 
                                Bloomington
                            , IN 47408. For more information call (812) 855–6041, or visit the
                            website, http://www.indiana.edu/~bfca. In order to maintain a comprehensive research
                            archive, the BFC/A does not distribute any part of its collection. However, the archive is
                            open to the public Monday through Friday, and researchers can make an appointment by phone
                            or email (bfca@ indiana.edu).
               
                     nizes that many films, produced in virtual obscurity by
                    independent black filmmakers, portray an alternative—and often more positive and
                    accurate—view of black culture than that which is produced in Hollywood. In light of
                    these trends, the overall goals of the BFC/A are to introduce black films to diverse audiences with
                    the intention of realizing a greater multicultural understanding and encouraging the study of black
                    film as part of a humanities education.
            The first and most basic element of our mission is to collect and preserve black films. To this end,
                    the BFC/A regularly identifies and purchases commercially produced films to add to the general film
                    collection, which contains over 1,100 individual titles in several formats including VHS (over 700
                    tapes), 16mm (over 300 individual titles), DVD, 3/4" U–Matic videocassettes,
                    8mm, 35mm, and one laserdisc (D. W. Griffith's infamous 1915 epic, The Birth
                        of a Nation). The majority of these films were produced from the 1970s to the present,
                    though more than four hundred date from the period 1900–1960, including many race
                    films—motion pictures produced in the 1930s and 1940s that featured all–black
                    casts and were often written, directed, and produced by blacks. Films of specific interest to the
                    state of Indiana at the BFC/A include William Greaves's Nationtime, Gary
                    (1972)—a documentary chronicling the first National Black Political Convention in Gary,
                    Indiana, which features a rousing speech by Richard G. Hatcher—and 
                        Indianapolis
                     filmmaker Shari Lynn Himes's award–winning short film A Songforjade (2001).
            In addition to films, the BFC/A also maintains a large collection of photographic prints, negatives,
                    and slides solicited from studios and black film personalities. With the help of the IU Digital
                    Library Program, we initiated a project in early 2004 to digitize the entire collection for enhanced
                    access and preservation, and more than half of the nearly 1,500 items in our collection have been
                    scanned. Other collections at the BFC/A include black film posters; interviews with black
                    filmmakers, actors, actresses, and film scholars; screenplays; subject files; and a library of
                    periodicals and monographs on black films.
            Several special collections donated by filmmakers and film collectors include films and other
                    materials that document the filmmaking process. The largest collection, the Peter Davis Collection,
                    includes everything from film footage and photograph stills to research materials such as newspaper
                    articles that went into the South African documentary filmmaker's work.
            Perhaps the most historically significant collection is that of filmmaker Richard E. Norman, donated
                    by his son in 1985. 
                        Norman
                     began making  movies with all–white
                    actors in the early 1910s, although he soon recognized the potential of making
                    all–black–cast films for the relatively untapped market of the African
                    American community. He began by remaking one of his earlier films, The Green Eyed
                        Monster (1919), and produced a sequel, The Love Bug (1919), both of which
                    were popular with audiences and even prompted unsolicited letters from black actors and actresses
                    eager to star in 
                        Norman
                     Studios' next production. Encouraged by this success, 
                        Norman
                     continued producing his own—including The Bull Dogger
                    (1921), Regeneration (1923), and one of his most successful and
                    well–known productions, The Flying Ace
                    (1926)—as well as distributing films by black filmmakers such as Micheaux. Among the
                    materials in the 
                        Norman
                     Collection are distribution and other business records, correspondence, publicity
                    materials (including posters, lobby cards, press sheets, and photographs), and other ephemera, such
                    as 
                        Norman
                     Studios movie tickets and a pair of handcuffs used in The Flying Ace.
                    A complementary collection with similar materials resides at the Lilly Library at IU.24 The BFC/A also houses copies of all of 
                        Norman
                    's extant films.23
            
            The most recent major acquisition is the William Greaves Collection. Greaves started his career in
                    film as an actor in the late 1940s and began directing and producing films documentaries about
                    African Americans in the following decade. Throughout his prolific career as a filmmaker, Greaves
                    has made over two hundred films and won numerous awards, including an Emmy for his effort on the
                    first black–produced network television series, Black Journal
                    (1968–1970). Greaves screened his most recent film, Ralph Bunche: An
                        American Odyssey (2001), in 
                        Bloomington
                     in October 2003 as part of a BFC/A–sponsored film series and deposited the
                    beginnings of the collection devoted to documenting his celebrated accomplishments in film. His
                    collection currently contains articles, film reviews, publicity materials, and fifteen films on VHS
                    and 16mm formats.
            Developing outreach programs for the university community and general public is another vital part of
                    the BFC/As mission. In 2003 the center collaborated with the IU Art Museum to present
                    "Imaging Blackness, 1915–2002: Film Posters from the Black Film
                    Center/Archive," an exhibition of more than fifty of the center's vintage black
                    film posters, 
                  
                     24 The Lilly Library, http://www.indiana.edu/~liblilly, is located at
                            1200 E. Seventh Street in 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     25 The Library of Congress preserves the extant original copies of 
                                Norman
                            's films.
               
                    
                    
                  Film poster for The Bronze Venus, Toddy Pictures Company,
                            1937. Courtesy Black Film Center/Archive, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
               
                     including a 41–by–81–inch
                    three–sheet from the 1937 musical The Bronze Venus (a.k.a. The Duke is Tops), featuring Lena Home. "Imaging Blackness" and
                    associated events were so well received that the BFC/A is now working towards publishing a booklet
                    celebrating the exhibit that will include full–color images of many of the posters.
            A final part of the BFC/A mission seeks to carry out, facilitate, and encourage research into the
                    history, significance, and aesthetics of black film. Since 1985, the center has published Black Camera, a biannual microjournal containing reviews of contemporary and
                    historical films and books, interviews with filmmakers and film scholars, articles based upon
                    scholarly research, editorials on the state of black film, and information about recent acquisitions
                    and upcoming programs at the center.
            The BFC/A anticipates that the upcoming months and years will be full of activity. The staff has
                    compiled the Black Filmography Database, an electronic catalog of all black films, and will soon
                    publish Frame by Frame 111, the third in a series of indexes of black films
                    published by Indiana University Press containing an alphabetical listing of black films, along with
                    cast, crews, and technical data, from 1994 through the present.26 The staff is
                    also at work on an anthology of essays on the career of Richard Pryor based on our 2001 film
                    retrospective, "Is He Crazy?: The Humor and Genius of Richard Pryor," featuring
                    screenings of several of Pryor's films and a keynote lecture by Pulitzer
                    Prize–winning author James Alan McPherson. Furthermore, we are actively seeking a new,
                    more accessible location within the university in the hopes of acquiring more space to hold our
                    expanding collections.
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY:
            AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY COLLECTIONS
            Anniversaries provide us with a good time to reflect and sometimes to celebrate. This year quite a
                    bit of attention has been paid to the fiftieth anniversary of the Supreme Court case 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     v. Board of Education.27 The 
                  
                     26 Phyllis Rauch Klotman, Frame by Frame: A Black
                                Filmography (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997); Klotman and Gloria J. Gibson, Frame by Frame
                            II; A Filmography of the African American Image, 1978–1994 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997).
                  
                     27 In 2001 George W. Bush established a presidential commission to
                            commemorate the occasion. Since that time, numerous websites, essay contests, discussions,
                            awards, town hall meetings, and publications have marked the milestone anniversary. Notable
                            Indiana events offered in commemoration of 
                                
                                    Brown
                                
                             included Purdue University's "Fifty Years after 
                                Brown
                            ," a presentation by plaintiff Oliver Brown's daughters Linda
                            Brown Thompson and Cheryl 
                                Brown
                             Henderson. At IU, the law school hosted a workshop and panel discussion.
               
                     year 2004 also marks the fortieth anniversary of the Civil
                    Rights Act, the most far–reaching civil rights legislation in the nation's
                    history, signed into law by Lyndon Baines Johnson on July 2, 1964.
            Still another milestone this year may go unremarked at a national level, though it is important to me
                    (for personal and professional reasons) and, I hope, to all students of Indiana's African
                    American history This year is the twenty–fifth anniversary of Black History
                        News & Notes, the quarterly newsletter of the Black History Program at the Indiana
                    Historical Society. I have edited the publication for eighteen of those years in my role as
                    archivist of African American history at the IHS. Black History News &
                    Notes draws on and publicizes the IHS's many collections in this area. The
                    society's African American archives include personal papers of attorneys, doctors,
                    educators, entrepreneurs, ministers, and journalists, as well as institutional records for churches,
                    clubs, businesses, government entities, and community. These collections speak to issues of slavery,
                    race relations, and public accommodations.28
            
            A selection of three specific sources offers a glimpse of the IHS's African American
                    holdings. Ten letters written by black female students attending 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public School #17 to Sergeant Irven Armstrong while he was stationed in 
                        France
                     during World War I commend his war service, express homefront support for American
                    soldiers, comment on the effects of the 1918 influenza epidemic, thank him for keeping America safe
                    for democracy, and bid him a safe return. The letters contain the signatures and addresses of the
                    students, all of whom lived within blocks of the near–westside school (M 0745). A funeral
                    program found in the George R Stewart Papers provides a rare visual image of C. I. Taylor, coach of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     ABCs, a National Negro League baseball team (M 0556). The emancipation record of Mathew
                    Becks—freed from slavery in 
                        Rockingham County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , on February 18, 1851, later a resident of Weaver Settlement in 
                        Grant County
                    , Indiana—provides a physical description of Becks and states that he was
                    freed by the last will and testament of St. Clair Kirtley (SC 1750).
            One of the most used collections at the society is the Madam C. J. Walker Papers (M 0399). The
                    collection contains the records and correspondence of her company's principal officers, the
                    company's business 
                  
                     28 Access an online guide to the society's African American
                            manuscript and visual collections at
                            http^Avww.indianahistory.oi^braryAnanuscripts/collection_guides/African–American_mss.html.
               
                     records, and the records of associated businesses. Walker has
                    been a perennial favorite for History Day projects, and graduate students working on theses and
                    dissertations have utilized various portions of her collection. Publishers regularly seek permission
                    to use some item from the collection in their publications, ranging from math textbooks to novels
                    set in the Progressive Era.
            The collection's attraction to researchers stems in part from Walker's engaging
                    personality. She was active in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     community, providing space for the early meetings of the Phyllis Wheatley YWCA and
                    riding around the city in her locally manufactured Waverly automobile. In 1915, as she prepared to
                    relocate to Villa Lewaro, a mansion designed and built for her in 
                        New York
                     by the African American architect Vertner Tandy, the Senate Avenue YMCA drafted a
                    resolution requesting her to remain in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That same year, Walker brought suit against the Central Amusement Company alleging
                    that personnel at the Isis, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     movie theater, charged her twenty–five cents when the customary fees were
                    five or ten cents. She refused to pay.
            In addition to being an astute businesswoman and philanthropist, Sarah Breedlove Walker was a
                    political activist. She visited the White House in 1917 to protest lynching, and it was her hope
                    that her sales agents would use their economic clout to rally public support against racial
                    injustice. At their 1918 convention, Walker's agents sent a telegram to President Woodrow
                    Wilson protesting the treatment of African American soldiers. Later that summer, Walker hosted a
                    reception at Villa Lewaro for Emmett J. Scott, the special assistant to the Secretary of War for
                    Negro Affairs (documentation found in the George E Stewart Papers, M 0556).
            The records of the National Black Political Convention have also been a popular collection at the
                    society. On March 10–12, 1972, several thousand African Americans—Republicans,
                    Democrats, nationalists, Socialists, and independents—gathered in Gary, Indiana, to
                    develop a unified political strategy for African Americans from 1972 forward. The records in the
                    collection document the event; of particular note are a conference program and agenda, a fact sheet
                    describing the history of the organization, an outline of the delegate selection process in Indiana,
                    and a transcript of a speech attributed to Carl B. Stokes, former mayor of 
                        Cleveland
                     (SC 2643).
            Photographic researchers will find the following 
                        Indianapolis
                    –related collections useful: O.James Fox (P 0266), Harris Brothers (P 0154),
                    Senate Avenue YMCA (P 0394), Duncan Scheidt (P 0257), and the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Recorder (P 0303). The latter includes the photographic archives of the 
                    
                  O. James Fox photographed children reading in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , c. 1943–1960. O. James Fox Collection. Courtesy Indiana Historical
                            Society
                third longest–running African American newspaper in the country. The collection
                    contains black–and–white and color photographs, printed material, manuscripts,
                    and ink, pencil, and mechanically reproduced drawings dating from around 1900 to 1987.
            The Indiana Historical Society is committed to an ongoing effort to respond to the growing interest
                    in Indiana's African American past. For example, next year someone will likely want to
                    celebrate and document the fiftieth anniversary of Crispus Attucks High School's victory in
                    the  Indiana High School Athletic Association (IHSAA)
                    boys' basketball championship. Opened as a high school for African American students in
                    1927, Attucks was banned from playing in the segregated IHSAA state basketball tournament until
                    1943. Twelve years later, in 1955, Attucks, led by Oscar Robertson, became the first 
                        Indianapolis
                     school to win the state basketball championship; it repeated the honor the following
                    year. Coached by Ray Crowe, the team had won forty–five consecutive games when it was
                    crowned IHSAA champion in 1956. There are several printed items that help shed light on the era and
                    the championships, including Randy Roberts, "But They Can't Beat
                        Us": Oscar Robertson and the Crispus Attucks Tigers (1999); Hoosiers:
                        The Fabulous Basketball Life of Indiana (1995) by Phillip Hoose; and Oscar
                    Robertson's The Big O: My Life, My Times, My Game (2003). A biography of
                    Bill Garrett—star of the 1947 
                        Shelbyville
                     championship team and voted Mr. Basketball that year, the first African American to
                    play in the Big Ten Conference (for IU), and coach of the 1959 Attucks championship
                    team—is scheduled to appear soon. The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Recorder Collection also documents the 1955–1956 state champion
                    teams, while the Crispus Attucks High School Scrapbook (BV 3469) chronicles the 1950–1951
                    basketball season, with newspaper articles from the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Recorder, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Times, 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, and 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Star. The scrapbook also contains various news clippings and tickets,
                    programs, scorecards, and cheerleading yells from other basketball seasons—namely
                    1951–1952, 1954–1955, 1955–1956, and 1958–1959.
            While the Indiana Historical Society maintains many collections on African American history, these
                    records would be bolstered by more collections that reflect the history of African Americans in
                    geographical locations throughout the state, especially rural communities; materials that document
                    the history of black Indianans since World War II; military materials, such as a Civil War diary
                    written by a soldier from the 28th 
                        United States
                     Colored Troops; primary sources that document the rich history of Indiana Avenue in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and additional personal papers from the many individuals whose experiences have
                    contributed to the state's rich African American history.
         
         
         
            Jefferson's "Empire for Liberty"
            BERNARD W. SHEEHAN
            Odd that Thomas Jefferson excluded the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase from the list of accomplishments to be chiseled on his gravestone. And for the
                    rest of the nineteenth century, posterity agreed with this estimate. Not until the centennial
                    celebration of the Purchase in 1903 did the public come to think of Jefferson's acquisition
                    as a major event in his life.1 Nowadays the decision to buy a major section of
                    the continent rates as a crucial event (perhaps the crucial event) in the making of the 
                        United States
                     as a major industrial and continental nation. True, in keeping with the currently
                    fashionable practice of stressing Jeffersonian hypocrisy, some historians quibble about the
                    president's betrayal of his constitutional principles in acquiring the western territory,
                    but his compromise of strict construction remains a minor blemish in his biography. Besides, the
                    decision can as easily be seen as evidence of practicality in a man whose thought was so often
                    circumscribed by the imperatives of Enlightenment universalism. Considering, then, the modern
                    tendency of historians to rummage through the past for evidence of moral shortcomings, it is
                    surprising how much agreement can be found on the merits and significance of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase.
            But if historians do not much argue about Jefferson's decision, there is still a good deal
                    to discuss. Toward the end of the nineteenth century, 
                  Bernard W. Sheehan is professor emeritus of history at Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                             and author of Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian Philanthropy and
                                the American Indian (1973).
                  
                     1 Merrill D. Peterson, The Jefferson Image in the
                                American Mind (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 272–73.
               
                    
                    
                  Jefferson's draft of his tombstone and epitaph, c. 1820. Jefferson
                            wanted to be memorialized for only three things—the Declaration of Independence,
                            the 
                                Virginia
                             Statute for Religious Freedom, and the University of 
                                Virginia
                            —and his wishes were followed. Courtesy Library of Congress,
                            Manuscript Division
                Henry Adams doubted that Jefferson deserved much credit for obtaining the new lands. He
                    portrayed the president as largely passive in the great drama unfolding in 
                        Paris
                     and St. Domingue. Jefferson simply acquiesced in what others made happen. This
                    interpretation, no doubt, seriously underestimated Jefferson's role in the affair, though
                    it is probably true to say that neither Jefferson nor his secretary of state James Madison were  completely in command of the diplomatic situation. The Adams
                    version of the story will not stand up to modern scrutiny2 More controversial,
                    from the earliest years after the purchase, were the relative roles of Robert R. Livingston, James
                    Monroe, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand, Francois Barbe–Marbois, and Napoleon Bonaparte in
                    the diplomatic maneuverings between 1800 and 1803. Livingston has perhaps been the most
                    controversial figure. On the whole, history has not been kind to him. It took George Dangerfield and
                    more recently Charles Cerami to rescue the 
                        New York
                     politician's diplomatic reputation.3
            
            Livingston arrived in 
                        Paris
                     in late 1801 as the American representative amid rumors that 
                        Spain
                     had receded 
                        Louisiana
                     to 
                        France
                    . The rumors turned out to be true. With the Treaty of San Ildefonso, signed the
                    previous year, 
                        Spain
                     had agreed to transfer to 
                        France
                        New Orleans
                     and the lands west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     that had been obtained from 
                        France
                     in 1762, toward the end of the Seven Years' War. The return of French power to
                    the American continent presented the new republic with a serious problem. First, it cast into doubt
                    the ultimate expansion of the republic beyond the river. With 
                        Spain
                    , a decaying power with only a feeble grip on its borderlands, as a western neighbor,
                    Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     could be confident that those territories would fall "piece by piece"
                    to American control when the frontier made its inevitable move across the 
                        Mississippi
                    .4
                    
                        France
                     was a different story It would be a more formidable rival and might even by its
                    presence on the western border hem the Americans between the Atlantic and the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Talleyrand intended just that by erecting a "wall of brass" to keep
                    the Americans from the river's mouth. So much for Jefferson's "Empire for
                    Liberty." But the immediate problem was not so much the future of the republic as the
                    question of American access to the river itself.
            This issue had festered since the close of the Revolution, when settlers crossed the Appalachians
                    into 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     and then began 
                  
                     2 Junius P. Rodriguez, ed., The 
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase: A Historical and Geographical Encyclopedia (Santa Barbara,
                            Calif., 2002), 139; Henry Adams, History ojthe 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 9 vols. (1890–1891; 
                                New York
                            , 1962), vol. 1, chaps. 13–17; vol. 2, chaps. 1–6.
                  
                     3 George Dangerfield, Chancellor Robert R.
                            Livingston of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , 1746–1813 (
                                New York
                            , 1960), chap. 5; Charles A. Cerami, Jefferson's Great
                                Gamble: The Remarkable Story of Jefferson, Napoleon and the Men Behind the 
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase (Naperviile, 111., 2003), chap. 5.
                  
                     4 The best recent treatment of the events leading to the Purchase can
                            be found in Jon Kukla, A Wilderness So Immense: The 
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase and the Destiny of America (
                                New York
                            , 2003); for the "piece by piece" reference, see p. 19. Two
                            recent shorter volumes offer excellent summaries of events: Thomas Fleming, The 
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase (Hoboken, N.J., 2003); and James E. Lewis, Jr., The 
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase: Jefferson's Noble Bargain? (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 2003).
               
                     to displace the Indians in the Northwest Territory. They needed
                    an opening to the sea for their agricultural products. With their hold on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the Spaniards periodically closed the river to American trade. Not until 1795 did they
                    allow the settlers to deposit goods at 
                        New Orleans
                     and transship them to foreign markets. There was no guarantee that after taking
                    possession of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the west bank of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Bonaparte would be as agreeable to American interests as 
                        Spain
                     had eventually become. The danger to the new republic was more than economic. Jefferson
                    and 
                        Madison
                     feared that without access to international markets western farmers would be tempted to
                    abandon the Union that had shown itself incapable of protecting their interests. 
                        France
                     could not be allowed to reestablish its American empire.
            Though probably of the second rank among the founders, Livingston played a significant part in the
                    making of the Revolution. He served with Jefferson on the committee to write the Declaration of
                    Independence, signed the document, and took charge of foreign affairs for the Continental Congress.
                    After the Revolution, he moved away from his old ally in 
                        New York
                     politics, the Federalist John Jay, and joined Jefferson's Republicans. He
                    reached 
                        France
                     after long conversations with Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     concerning American policy toward Europe and thus knew the thinking of the president
                    and the secretary. But he carried with him certain limitations. Although intelligent and able to
                    understand French, he spoke the language haltingly and was slightly deaf. Livingston proved in the
                    end to be an excellent representative, though for all his virtues, the initiative in this matter
                    never really rested with the 
                        United States
                    . All hinged on Bonaparte and his plans for Europe and America.
            Neither Jefferson nor 
                        Madison
                     was ever happy with Livingston. They suspected that he intended to use his tenure in 
                        Paris
                     to further his political career in 
                        New York
                     and perhaps even in the national arena. 
                        Madison
                     replied only intermittently to Livingston's wordy reports and pleas for more
                    explicit instructions. He seemed content to let matters take their own course in 
                        Paris
                     until the time came that Livingston needed direction.5 Jefferson,
                    for his part, often communicated his views by depending on other people rather than his official
                    representative in 
                        Paris
                    . When he wanted to impress the French that their determination to recreate their empire
                    in the New World would only throw the Americans into the hands of the British, he sent Pierre Du
                    Pont de Nemours to 
                        Paris
                     with orders to 
                  
                     5 Cerami, Jefferson's Great Gamble, chap.
                            5.
               
                     go directly to Talleyrand and Bonaparte. Later, as events
                    reached a conclusion, he dispatched 
                        Monroe
                     to join the New Yorker. Livingston could have no doubt where the confidence of his
                    government lay6
            
            The administration had no immediate thought of acquiring the whole of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Jefferson looked instead to solve the problem by purchasing 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Floridas—and if not the Floridas then 
                        New Orleans
                    , and if neither of these then at least a French commitment to the right of deposit at
                    the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Initially, Talleyrand told Livingston that 
                        France
                     owned none of these territories and thus could not sell them. In fact 
                        Spain
                     had agreed to give 
                        France
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    —but not the Floridas—in return for a kingdom in northern 
                        Italy
                     to be created by Bonaparte's armies. Talleyrand lied, as was his wont, because
                    in 1801 and 1802 Bonaparte had no intention to enhance American power in the New World. He had for
                    the moment switched his gaze from east to west. After the debacle in 
                        Egypt
                     and the Mediterranean in the late 1790s, he patched up a temporary peace with Britain
                    and embarked on an ambitious scheme in the Caribbean and the American mainland. The less the
                    Americans knew, the better.
            The key to Bonaparte's plans lay in the erstwhile colony of St. Domingue, the western half
                    of the island of Hispaniola. Until the early 1790s, when the contagion of revolution spread to the
                    island, St. Domingue had been the most prosperous of French colonies. For the rest of the decade it
                    yielded nothing but trouble for the unstable French governments. Under Toussaint LOuverture the
                    slaves revolted, freed themselves, and engaged in a vicious civil war with the mulatto and white
                    plantation owners. The economy fell into ruin. The island was critical to Bonaparte's plans
                    because he required a secure base in the Caribbean from which to protect the sea approaches to 
                        Louisiana
                     and as a market for the products of his restored American empire.
            As it turned out, all of these plans were quite unrealistic. From his recent experience in the
                    Mediterranean, when the British destroyed the French fleet in Egyptian waters and prevented
                    Bonaparte from even returning his army from the East, he should have known that 
                        France
                     could not compete with English sea power. True, the final evidence did not reach him
                    until 1805, after Trafalgar, where Nelson destroyed the combined French and Spanish fleets in the
                    western Mediterranean, but there was no 
                  
                     6 Kukla, A Wilderness So Immense,
                        129–34.
               
                     reason to suppose that when war broke out again the French
                    admirals could defend French interests in the Caribbean. But power often breeds delusion.
            In early 1802 a French army under Charles–Victor Leclerc arrived in St. Domingue. By the
                    summer the general had forced LOuverture's troops to surrender and sent him captive to 
                        France
                    , where he died in prison. But this victory was short–lived. It soon became
                    clear that the real enemies in St. Domingue were yellow fever and malaria. Within months these
                    tropical scourges had devastated the French armies. Troops died so rapidly that replacements could
                    not be brought in quickly enough. By late 1803 the remnant of the French forces surrendered and
                    withdrew from the island. In the meantime Bonaparte, recognizing that a French 
                        Louisiana
                     without St. Domingue would be untenable, turned his attention once again to the
                    European continent and his perennial enemy Britain.7
            
            Jefferson was bound to be ambivalent about St. Domingue. He heard the stories of slave rebellion and
                    believed the worst of them, and he witnessed the arrival of refugees from the turmoil of the island.
                    His ambivalence was compounded by the recognition that these events had been set in train by the
                    revolution in 
                        France
                     that he had helped to foment and to which he remained loyal long after others had
                    abandoned it. He was after all an owner of slaves who feared slave revolt. He could never bring
                    himself to apply to his own black servants what he had written in the Declaration of Independence
                    and elsewhere about liberty and equality. The stability of southern society, in his mind, depended
                    on the subordination of the black population.8
            
            Thus in 1801, when Jefferson learned that Bonaparte intended to restore order to St. Domingue and to
                    return the blacks to bondage, he informed Louis–Andre Pichon, the French charge in 
                        Washington
                    , that the 
                        United States
                     would keep the French forces supplied. John Adams and his secretary of state Timothy
                    Pickering had refused to help the French.9 But as soon as Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     grasped the full implications of Bonaparte's policy, their sympathy for
                    slavery and the plight of the dispos– 
                  
                     7 Ibid., 218–25; Alexander De Conde, This Affair of 
                                    Louisiana
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 100–105.
                  
                     8 Roger G. Kennedy, Mr Jefferson's Lost Cause:
                                Land, Farmers, Slavery, and the 
                        
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase (
                                New York
                            , 2003), stresses the significance of slavery in the purchase. See, for example,
                            pp. 188–89, 210–16.
                  
                     9 Fleming, 
                        
                                    Louisiana
                                 Purchase, 4.
               
                     sessed slave owners faded. They ignored Pichon's and
                    Leclerc's increasingly desperate pleas for assistance. The French armies were left to
                    wither in the Caribbean heat. Ambivalence over slavery aside, there would be no hesitation in taking
                    every measure to keep Bonaparte from the 
                        Mississippi
                     Delta.
            Which brings us to Jefferson's views about the future of the continent. Before the crisis
                    reached a head in the early years of the nineteenth century, he had used the image of a bottle to
                    describe the importance of the 
                        Mississippi
                     for the future of the republic. Whoever owned the power to cork the mouth of the river
                    controlled the continent. The Spaniards, weak as they were, had caused a great deal of mischief over
                    the years by periodically closing 
                        Mississippi
                     waters to American traffic. In the 1780s, after prolonged negotiations with the Spanish
                    representative in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , John Jay finally acceded to theJay–Gardoqui agreement, whereby in return
                    for trading privileges in the Spanish colonial empire the Confederation would agree to the closing
                    of the river for thirty years. Eastern trading interests favored the accord, but it met opposition
                    in the West and South and hence failed in the Confederation Congress. Not until 1795 did the
                    Pinckney Treaty settle the issue. Thus when he became president Jefferson had reason to believe that
                    the 
                        United States
                     had on its southern border a country both decrepit and apparently
                    amenable—two advantages for a new nation as weak as the 
                        United States
                    .
            Jefferson saw more than economic risk in foreign possession of the lower reaches of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The truth widely acknowledged in the early years was that the future of the Union was
                    none too secure. Ultimately the South made the first serious move to secession over slavery, but the
                    first threats had come from New 
                        England
                     and the West. After the Revolution the newly settled lands between the Appalachians and
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     endured virtually constant turmoil over the threat of Indian attack and Spanish,
                    English, and French meddling on the southern and northern borders, but especially over the failure
                    of the governments in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Washington
                     to secure an outlet for the region's agricultural production. For all his
                    skepticism over commerce and affection for the yeoman farmer, Jefferson understood the importance of
                    access to world markets for western settlers. There was never a shortage of western filibusterers
                    eager to sweep the Spaniards from 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Gulf Coast and perhaps even take the western territories out of the Union.10
            
            
               
                  10 Lewis, 
                     
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase, 21–24, offers a capsule treatment of the problem of
                        the West and the danger it presented to the Union.
            
            
            Thus Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     recognized the immediate need to open the 
                        Mississippi
                    , but they were less urgent about taking the Gulf Coast and unenthusiastic about the
                    region beyond the river. Convinced that the Gulf would fall in good time, they were unwilling to
                    expend the resources to force the issue. Jefferson has an undeserved reputation as something of a
                    pacifist. He opposed a standing army and resisted John Adams's building of a navy, but when
                    he gained office he made aggressive use of that navy in the Mediterranean. And if the moment had
                    come there can be no doubt that he would have used force on the southern border as his Republican
                    successors 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Monroe
                     in fact did. Jefferson knew well that when the French replaced the Spaniards in 
                        New Orleans
                     decisive action would have to be taken, but he resisted the demands of 
                        Hamilton
                     and some of the Federalists and even some of his own supporters for an immediate resort
                    to force.11 He chose instead diplomacy, perhaps more risky because if he delayed
                    until the French arrived they would not be easily dislodged, but considerably less expensive and
                    less fraught with the dangers of centralization that always accompanied war.
            Jefferson was less complacent than he may have seemed about the western territories. He was acutely
                    aware of what the age called the problem of neighborhood: the need for nations, especially young
                    republics, to have friendly powers on their borders.12 He had been eager since
                    at least the 1780s to dispatch exploratory parties to the western regions and planned the Lewis and
                    Clark expedition simultaneously with the Purchase. His interest in the territory was as much
                    scientific as it was political or imperial. But for a number of reasons he did not advocate the
                    immediate occupation of these lands. He much preferred that the territories between the mountains
                    and the river be filled before settlers spilled into the Far West. Whether he disagreed with 
                        Madison
                    's conception of an "extended republic" is less clear. (As it
                    turned out, 
                        Madison
                     himself did not favor the immediate occupation of the western territories.)
                    Jefferson's sense of order told him that the good of the nation would best be served by the
                    gradual and relatively compact settlement of the continent. Nor was he immune to the
                    easterners' disrelish of squatters, people who moved to the backcountry in order to escape
                    the orderly arrangements of civilized life.13
            
            
               
                  11 Fleming, 
                     
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase, 64–65.
               
                  12
                        
                     Lewis, Louisiana
                  
                        Purchase; and Lewis, The American Union and the Problem of
                            Neighborhood: The 
                                United States
                             and the Collapse of the Spanish Empire, 1783–1829 (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1998).
               
                  13 The best book on Jefferson and the West remains Donald Jackson, Thomas Jefferson and the Stony Mountains: Exploring the West from 
                                Monticello
                            
                   (
                            Urbana
                        , 111., 1981).
            
            
            When the time came for the displacement of the Spaniards, he most certainly did not wish to
                    substitute the French or the British. But at the same time, when he spoke of the "Empire
                    for Liberty" he did not necessarily refer to the expansion of the republic. He was far more
                    a universalis! in his principles than a nationalist. For Jefferson, republicanism transcended any
                    particular nation. He expected that American settlers, nurtured in the principles of republican
                    society, would move west and recreate there the enlightened system that their ancestors had
                    established in the New World. Nor did his vision stop there. Less presciently, perhaps, he
                    anticipated that in time the southern continent would fall under the sway of the republican ideas.
                    But none of this should be read as a blueprint for the imperial expansion of America. Jefferson had
                    little faith that distant settlements with different interests would necessarily retain their
                    attachment to the original republic. He told Joseph Priestley that "it was not very
                    important for the happiness of either part… whether we remain in one confederacy, or form
                    into Atlantic and 
                        Mississippi
                     confederacies." He did believe, however, that they would be republics, founded
                    on the same body of principle and sentiment and thus compatible neighbors.14
            
            Of course Jefferson's speculations turned out wrong. Once American settlers had seized the
                    lands beyond the river, the government extended its jurisdiction and these new territories began the
                    process of admission to the Union. Only the question of slavery tempted some of them ultimately to
                    seek a separation. In fact Jefferson had told 
                        Madison
                     much earlier that the American Constitution was uniquely designed to govern even
                    distant lands,15 and when the slavery issue arose in 1820 he expressed profound
                    regret over the possible splintering of the Union.
            But in the Franco–American negotiations leading to the Purchase, neither Jefferson nor 
                        Madison
                     had in mind the whole of 
                        Louisiana
                    . The directions to Livingston and 
                        Monroe
                     specified 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Floridas. Although Livingston was far from ignorant of the internal French
                    argument over Bonaparte's American adventures, he was still astonished when Talleyrand
                    offered the whole of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Thinking, no doubt, of his instructions, he turned down the offer, only to realize
                    what an important turn the discussions had taken. 
                        Monroe
                     arrived soon after, and the two representatives were forced to do what the
                    circumstances required. After that initial break, Barbe–Marbois took over, and the
                    diplomats com– 
                  
                     14 See 
                        Lewis, Louisiana
                     
                            Purchase, 17–18, 67, 84–92, for an interesting
                            discussion of the subject.
                  
                     15 Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson and the New
                                Nation: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 996.
               
                    
                    
                  Jefferson's 1803 proposal for a Constitutional amendment. Jefferson
                            debated its necessity, but time constraints for signing the treaty took priority. Courtesy
                            Library of Congress, Manuscript Division
                pleted the negotiations by the end of April 1803. The price was $ 15,000,000
                    ($11,250,000 in direct payment and $3,750,000 to cover French obligations to
                    the 
                        United States
                    ). With interest the final cost rose to about $27,000,000, a bargain by any
                        calculation.16 All of Jefferson's and 
                        Madison
                    's theorizing about the ordered development of the continent became irrelevant.
            Well, perhaps not entirely irrelevant. A mind as complex as Jefferson's was unlikely simply
                    to agree to a development so contrary to his plans. First came the Constitution. A strict
                    constructionist, Jefferson could find no sanction in its language for the acquisition of new
                    territory. Through the summer of 1803, he argued the point with the cabinet and with numerous of his
                    correspondents. In the course of the interchanges, he wrote two drafts of an amendment that allowed
                    the republic to add new territory and at the same time solved the problem of westward expansion. He
                    proposed that settlement be temporarily halted at the 
                        Mississippi
                     and that the new land above the thirty–first parallel be reserved for the
                    Indian tribes 
                  
                     16 Cerami, Jefferson's Great Gamble, chap.
                            14.
               
                     that would move from the East. Needless to say, whatever might
                    be advanced in favor of his proposal, it did not belong in the Constitution. It brought together two
                    of Jefferson's pet schemes. He believed that the native peoples could not remain on their
                    ancestral lands unless they changed their ways, and hence he initiated a government program designed
                    to teach male Indians to farm, to own lands individually, and to incorporate themselves into the
                    white man's society. When experience showed that many natives preferred to retain the old
                    ways, he thought that they should be encouraged to exchange their land for territory west of the
                    river, thus preserving the cohesion of the white settlements and giving the Indians an opportunity
                    in the West to transform their culture gradually. It was all very tidy and largely unworkable. But
                    it did solve the problem of the West in Jefferson's mind and helped assuage his doubts
                    about the legality of the treaty.17
            
            Of course the situation was more complicated. Informed by Livingston and 
                        Monroe
                     that Bonaparte might well change his mind, Jefferson consulted political necessity and
                    decided that the treaty must be ratified quickly. That he received little support for his
                    constitutional scruples from his colleagues certainly helped. 
                        Madison
                    , Albert Gallatin, and Levi Lincoln all favored implementation of the treaty. When he
                    sent it to the Senate despite his misgivings, Jefferson did another of those deeds that would keep
                    future historians worrying about his apparent hypocrisy. They have been right to worry, for he could
                    sometimes act in ways that seemed to defy principle. But he was no fool. He told Gallatin that he
                    continued to believe that expediency could not be the only ground of constitutional interpretation,
                    but after Livingston's letter about Bonaparte's change of mind, he simply could
                    not risk the loss of 
                        Louisiana
                     by delaying ratification long enough to change the Constitution.18
            
            Although the significant steps in the negotiations occurred in 
                        Paris
                     and Madrid, beyond the immediate purview of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , the two were not helpless bystanders responding to events. They understood the nature
                    of the 
                        Mississippi
                     crisis and they proposed a reasonable solution: the purchase of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Gulf Coast. They could not have known the tergiversations of
                    Bonaparte's mind. Not even Talleyrand, his principal adviser, or for that matter his
                    brothers, who all had 
                  
                     17 Anthony E C. Wallace, Jefferson and the Indians: The
                                Tragic Fate of the First Americans (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1999), 224–25; Bernard W. Sheehan, Seeds of
                                Extinction: Jeffersonian Philanthrophy and the American Indian (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1973), 245–46.
                  
                     18 Peterson, Thomas Jefferson and the New Nation,
                            770–71; Kukla, A Wilderness So Immense,
                        301–11.
               
                     worked and conspired toward the retention of 
                        Louisiana
                    , understood the inner workings of the Napoleonic brain. What should be said for the
                    American president and secretary of state, and what virtually every historian does say, is that when
                    the opportunity became clear they acted wisely and swiftly. They allowed neither the letter of the
                    Constitution nor money to cloud their perception of the grand prospect for the American future in
                    the lands beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            One further point about Jefferson's strategy is worth making. Convinced that war would ensue
                    if 
                        France
                     took 
                        New Orleans
                    , Jefferson sought ways to maintain peace. His opponents and many of his western
                    followers recommended a preemptive move to occupy the town before the French arrived. He thought
                    this policy both expensive and precipitate. Better to continue to maneuver. But what leverage could
                    he use against Bonaparte if the Frenchman continued to resist a sale? In a letter to Livingston
                    (carried and read by Du Pont) Jefferson laid out his thinking. The possessor of 
                        New Orleans
                    , he wrote, will be our "natural and habitual enemy." With 
                        Spain
                     in that position the threat will be minor. But if the French should take it, the 
                        United States
                     would be forced to adopt strong measures. "From that moment we must marry
                    ourselves to the British fleet," which with American aid would drive the French from the
                    sea. Jefferson tried to convince himself that he was threatening nothing, that he was merely stating
                    the obvious. Du Pont knew better and cautioned against such bluntness. Bonaparte was not the kind of
                    man to respond to aggressive language. Besides, it was far from clear that Britain had any current
                    interest in matrimony. It had already proved remarkably insouciant about possible French occupation
                    of 
                        Louisiana
                     and had recently concluded the Peace of Amiens with 
                        France
                    . As a result Britain was in the process of reducing its armed might. But the real
                    problem was Jefferson's underlying assumption that Britain itself had no interest in 
                        Louisiana
                    . That may have been so at the moment, but it had not always been so. In the Nootka
                    Sound Crisis of the early 1790s, William Pitt had considered taking the colony from 
                        Spain
                    , and in the War of 1812 Britain once again thought of adding the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                     to its empire. It would be another generation before Britain would discover an interest
                    in making an ally of its former colony. Jefferson's ploy was idle for another reason. He
                    really did not want the 
                        United States
                     to become dependent on Britain, which is probably why he cautioned Livingston to keep
                    the British in the dark about administration policy.19
            
            
               
                  19 Fleming, 
                     
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase, 36–43; Kukla, A Wilderness So
                        Immense, 229–34; Lewis, 
                     
                                Louisiana
                             Purchase, 34–37.
            
            
            Historians have applied a variety of epithets to the Purchase— "a Great
                    Gamble," "a Noble Bargain," "the Destiny of
                    America"— but most agree that the consequences were largely salutary for the
                    country's future. No doubt, parts of the story do not come out well (the unfortunate fate
                    of the native people gets the most attention), but it is difficult to quibble about the great
                    advantages obtained by the 
                        United States
                     from the acquisition of the new lands, including eventual expansion to the coasts. Most
                    Americans would probably find it impossible to contemplate the character of the country if it did
                    not stretch from "sea to shining sea." Would the Southwest or 
                        California
                     really be better off if they had continued as part of the Spanish Empire or under the
                    jurisdiction of the Mexican government? Could the Indian tribes have remained culturally intact if
                    they had been walled off like the inhabitants of a museum, forever protected from the deleterious
                    consequences of contact with modernity? But speculation aside, one recent account offers a serious
                    indictment of Jefferson and his "Noble Bargain." It is not that Roger Kennedy
                    thinks that the Purchase was a bad idea entirely. He objects rather to what the republic, and
                    Jefferson in particular, did with this bonanza of new territory.
            Out of the Purchase came, according to Kennedy, modern America, its land blighted by wasteful
                    agriculture, cities polluted by industrial clutter, Wal–Mart, strip malls where
                    "discarded hamburger wrappers swirl in wind curls across parking lots"; all of
                    this "scarred and wasted land" he compares to the paradisiac visions of William
                    Bartram, the carefully piled pelts in Alexander McGillivray's trading house, the neatly
                    cultivated Indian fields encountered by DeSoto, and then, strangely, the reproductions of Spanish
                    and English forts spread across the modern–day South. The man suffers from a
                    near–terminal case of nostalgic yearning.20
            
            The villain of this piece is the plantation slave economy and the principal agent of that villainy is
                    Thomas Jefferson. He deserves our condemnation because he knew better. Between 1776 and 1784 he
                    pressed for the elimination of slavery and praised the virtues of the yeoman farmer. Kennedy does
                    have a case on Jefferson and slavery. Although Jefferson never came to believe that slavery was a
                    desirable institution, he did in his later years become less vehement in his opposition and even on
                    occasion seemed to justify its existence. As a young man he formulated a plan for the emancipation
                    of 
                        Virginia
                    's slaves (though he probably did not submit it to the legislature) and
                    repeatedly commented on the misery and injus– 
                  
                     20 Kennedy, Mr. Jefferson's Lost Cause,
                            143.
               
                    
                    
                  Opposition to the Purchase in Jefferson's day, exemplified in a political cartoon by
                            James Akin, c. 1806. Jefferson is portrayed as a prairie dog, stung by the bee Napoleon,
                            disgorging gold.
                  Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                tice of the institution. But later he supported 
                        Madison
                    's contention that the spread of slavery would dilute its influence in American
                    society and compared the plight of English "journeymen or day laborers"
                    unfavorably to the security and absence of want of American slaves. And, of course, Jefferson lived
                    from the labor of slaves for his whole life. Although indebtedness prevented him from freeing them
                    at the end of his life, as had 
                        Washington
                    , John Randolph, and others, he probably would not have done so in any case. On the
                    yeoman farmer Jefferson always had lived a contradiction. He owned a number of plantations and a
                    couple of hundred slaves, and he showed no sign of adopting the virtues that Kennedy attributes to
                    the small independent farmer. He did, however, see the wisdom of abandoning staple crops for a more
                    varied agriculture and home manufacture.21
            
            
               
                  21 Ibid., 27, 39–41; Lucia Stanton, "'Those
                        Who Labor for My Happiness,'" in Peter Onuf, ed., Jeffersonian
                            Legacies (
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1993), 163.
            
            
            Kennedy is not the kind of historian likely to find the source of historical phenomena in social or
                    economic developments. He prefers to search the past for an agent responsible for creating the mess
                    in which he finds the world. In the matter of the plantation system, he lays the blame on British
                    merchants and on Jefferson, the merchants for what they did do and Jefferson for what he failed to
                    do.
            Greedy for a plentiful supply of cotton to feed their "satanic mills," the British
                    after the Revolution and the collapse of the tobacco market dumped textiles to stifle manufacture in
                    the South and used debts to drive the planters to persevere in staple–crop agriculture
                    and a slave–dominated society. In effect, they recolonized the South by making the
                    planters dependent and incapable of breaking a cycle of debt. The argument is much too neat, as
                    though the planters really sought another way of organizing their lives, or as if they wanted to
                    defy the market by rejecting the profits that would soon flood the country from the cultivation of
                    cotton. The alternative required freeing the slaves and switching to small holdings on which yeomen
                    farmers cultivated a variety of subsistence crops. By shunning the market these sturdy yeoman
                    avoided debt, retained their independence, and thus preserved their virtue. This republican idyll
                    may, indeed, have been seen by some as the substance of the Revolution's "novus
                    ordo seclorum." Certainly not by the Federalists. Although it might have piqued some of
                    Jefferson's more febrile fantasies, it was soon rejected by the South and the North.
                    Farmers learned quickly, or probably already knew, that subsistence spelled poverty and commerce
                    opened the path to wealth. Jefferson did not have to be convinced of this truth by the settlers of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    . Even while he idolized the yeoman farmer, he knew that the prosperity of the country
                    depended on free access to the 
                        Mississippi
                     and world markets. After all, that was the point of the negotiations in 
                        Paris
                    .22
            
            Jefferson carries a heavy burden in. this scenario. He is at once the promoter of the ideal and the
                    agent of its failure. Put plainly, Kennedy is convinced that if Jefferson had persisted in his
                    opposition to slavery and advocacy of the yeoman farmer, his neighbors might have freed their
                    servants and abandoned the plantation economy. He did neither, contends Kennedy, because he feared
                    the displeasure of those neighbors. If this diagnosis is accurate, it would seem that Jefferson
                    possessed a deeper in– 
                  
                     22 Kennedy, Mr. Jefferson's Lost Cause, 46,
                            89–90, 97–99, 101.
               
                     sight into the situation than does Kennedy. At least Jefferson
                    understood what the consequences would be if he continued to advocate what southern planters did not
                    want and considered contrary to their interests. The reality, of course, is that Jefferson remained
                    a plantation slave owner, deeply ambivalent about the institution but never seriously inclined to
                    abandon it. Even his emancipation plan, had it been implemented, would have taken effect over a long
                    period of time and scarcely affected his own comfortable life. Besides, if Kennedy is right about
                    the origins of the southern system in British economic machinations, how would the planters have
                    broken their dependence and heeded Jefferson's advice?23
            
            Fortunately, or unfortunately if one prefers coherence in historical writing, Kennedy expresses some
                    hesitation. He pauses to ask himself whether Jefferson really could have singlehandedly exerted
                    enough influence to transform a civilization. The answer startles. "Some
                    certainly," he writes. "Perhaps enough. Perhaps not." If that is the
                    strongest endorsement he can offer for his own vigorously maintained argument, one wonders why the
                    reader should take him seriously. But there is more. When the evidence supporting British
                    responsibility for initiating the whole sorry mess seems thin, he resorts to a truly bizarre
                    explanation. The techniques employed by British merchants to trap southerners in the plantation
                    system, he claims, were "so subtle that they left behind not a thread of their
                    operation—not even a word to denote the strategy." Could the British have been
                    so "subtle," so cunning, as to utterly conceal their skulduggery? Are we to
                    suppose that the lack of evidence itself supports the interpretation? Surely not. A more circumspect
                    historian faced with the absence of proof would conclude that the dark deed never happened. But
                    Kennedy is not that kind of historian.24
            
            Kennedy's treatment of a number of other issues is as problematic as his views on Jefferson
                    and the British. He entertains rather dreamy notions about the untouched landscape and thinks the
                    Indians and small farmers would have been far less destructive of the environment than the
                    practitioners of plantation agriculture.25 Probably, but if the South had
                    followed Kennedy's advice the region would have been much less prosperous. As it was, the
                    antebellum southern economy equaled the national 
                  
                     23 Ibid., 33, 236.
                  
                     24 lbid., 81,89–90.
                  
                     25 Ibid., 9–11, 149–51,
                        208–10.
               
                     rate of profit. Cotton cultivation was far from irrational.26 He portrays the Indians as premature ecologists.27 They
                    practiced traditional farming that they supplemented with hunting. Whether they could have survived
                    simply by cultivation remains unclear. What is clear is that many adopted the white man's
                    ways, especially in their reliance on domestic animals. Some few, mostly mixed–race,
                    became slaveholding planters. The real obstacle to transforming Indians into Jeffersonian yeoman was
                    that the women did the farming. The men hunted and tended public affairs. Turning them into farmers
                    required a wrenching reconstruction of native culture. It would not happen quickly.
            Kennedy has a soft spot for the English adventurer William Augustus Bowles and for Alexander
                    McGillivray, the mixed–race Creek leader. His argument that Bowles had in mind some kind
                    of Enlightenment Utopia for the southern Indians will strike many readers as itself Utopian.28 As for McGillivray, he may have meant well for the native people, but he was
                    mindful of his own interests. He certainly did not live like an Indian and spoke so little Muskogee
                    that he needed a translator. Toward the end of his career, the Creeks abandoned him. The low point
                    in the book comes when Kennedy hints that Claudio Saunt, who has opposed his position on McGillivray
                    and a number of other matters, may be guilty of racism. The accusation is more than snide; it is
                        unjust.29
            
            Kennedy becomes fixated on the role of maroons in early nineteenth–century southern
                    history—almost as much as some southern planters. No doubt they were a problem in 
                        Florida
                     and along the Gulf Coast and hence of concern to Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    . But that the maroons were a vanguard of a multiracial society of small holders in the
                    South beggars the imagination. For one thing, Indians did not always treat blacksas equals, and in
                    the 
                        Florida
                     swamps, they did not always live together or unite in their war against the whites.30
            
            
               
                  26 Edward Pessen, "How Different from Each Other Were the
                        Antebellum North and South?," American Historical Review, 85
                        (December 1980), 1125–26; but see also "Antebellum North and South in
                        Comparative Perspective: A Discussion," ibid., 1150–66; and Forrest McDonald
                        and Grady McWhiney, "The South from Self–Sufficiency to Peonage: An
                        Interpretation," ibid., 1095–1118. There is little in this extensive
                        discussion to support Kennedy's contention that the plantation system did serious
                        injury to the southern economy.
               
                  27 Kennedy, Mr. Jefferson's Lost Cause,
                        149–51.
               
                  28 Ibid., 143ff., chap. 10.
               
                  29 Ibid., esp. 284 n 4; Claudio Saunt, A New Order of Things: Property, Power, and the Transformation of the Creek Indians,
                            1733–1816 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Eng., 1999), 207–09.
               
                  30 Kennedy Mr. Jefferson's Lost Cause, chap.
                    9.
            
            
            Finally, there is the question of Fulwar Skipwith, a minor functionary with useful connections among 
                        Virginia
                     politicians, whom Kennedy raises to the level of a major player in the Purchase and the
                    later American government of 
                        Louisiana
                    . None of the other treatments of the events, old or new, allow Skipwith more than an
                    occasional reference, and the recent Encyclopedia devoted to the subject does not
                    even afford him an entry.31 If Kennedy is right, he is certainly on to
                    something, but nothing in his text really supports giving Skipwith such major treatment.
            In the body of his book, Kennedy predicts a dismal future for the republic, far less salubrious than
                    Jefferson implies in his "Empire for Liberty." He expends much print lamenting the
                    failure of Jefferson's vision and the expansion across the 
                        Mississippi
                     of the slave economy and commercial agriculture. He is right in arguing that the
                    movement of population into those territories could only occur at the expense of the native tribes,
                    though he neglects to explain what the alternative may have been. The reservation system satisfies
                    few, nor does assimilation. All of the recent authors cite the significance of the new lands in the
                    coming of the Civil War. The South's insistence on the expansion of its institution
                    certainly precipitated that terrible event, but is it at least as plausible to suppose that it might
                    have erupted even without the controversy over the right of southern farmers to move their slaves
                    into the territories? The sections were increasingly at odds in the second third of the nineteenth
                    century, the puritan/progressivism of the North less and less willing to endure the spectacle of the
                    peculiar institution and the South more and more convinced that its future lay outside the Union.
                    Could the issue have been settled without the war? Probably not. It was the war that freed the
                    slaves and settled the question of the Union. Not quite what Jefferson expected from the Purchase.
                    His Federalist enemies may have exaggerated when they asserted that the West would turn into a
                    "field of blood," but they had some truth on their side. And then unaccountably,
                    after writing a dirge to the future of America, Kennedy ends by admitting that the country remains
                    "'the last best hope of earth.'"32 He may
                    finally have gotten it right, but that, of course, gets us back to the more conventional view of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase.
            
               
                  3l, ed., 
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                         Purchase Encyclopedia.
               
                  32 Lewis, The
                        
                            Louisiana
                        
                        Purchase, 92–93; Kennedy, Mr. Jefferson's
                            Lost Cause, 244.
            
         
         
         
            "A River of Promise"
            Historians Reconsider the Missouri River and Its Explorers
            JOSEPH C. PORTER
            Among "the central themes in the history of the American West," il according to
                    historian James P Ronda, is "the story of western rivers." During the late
                    eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, the river most crucial to that story was the 
                        Missouri
                    —‘a highway into the West," in Ronda's words,
                    but also "a river of promise, of dreams, and of dreams denied."1
            
            In marking the two–hundredth anniversary of the most famous expedition up the length of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                    , several historians have reconsidered the expedition of Lewis and Clark and their Corps
                    of Discovery. Some authors have looked for those who went before, in the earliest explorations of
                    the river; some have focused on the lesser–known characters of the well–known
                    story; and some have found new ways to look at the narratives set forth in the diaries and journals.
                    This essay examines five of these works.
            
               Joseph C. Porter is chief curator of the 
                            North Carolina
                         Museum of History, Raleigh, and author of Paper Medicine Man: John
                            Gregory Bourke and His American West (1989).
               
                  1 James P. Ronda, introduction to W. Raymond Wood, Prologue
                            to Lewis and Clark: The Mackay and Evans Expedition, (
                            Norman
                        , Ok., 2003), xii.
            
            
            THE MISSISSIPPI, THE MISSOURI, AND THE WEST BEFORE 1800
            The Mississippi River and its valleys were some of the
                    earliest–explored regions of North America. In 1673 Louis Joliet and Jesuit Jacques
                    Marquette reached the river and established a French presence in the interior of the continent. In
                    1682 Rene Robert Cavalier de La Salle claimed the 
                        Mississippi
                     and its drainage for his king, Louis XIV of 
                        France
                    , and named the territory "
                        Louisiana
                    ." From that time until the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase in 1803, 
                  France, Spain
               , Great Britain, and the 
                        United States
                     all made claims to the area, and explorers moved west beyond the Mississippi
                        valley, attempting to follow the Missouri River to its
                    conclusion. In 1763, the French, via the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                    , transferred 
                        Louisiana
                     to 
                        Spain
                     to foil British designs on the region. The Spanish made several attempts to explore and
                    strengthen their claim to the territory, sending expeditions to find sites for trading posts and
                    forts. The strategy of officials in 
                        St. Louis
                     was for the Spanish flag to follow the Indian trade. "Theoretically, the trade
                    was open to all Spanish subjects," writes W. Raymond Wood, but officials limited the actual
                    licenses "to a favored few whom the Spaniards used as quasi–governmental
                    agents." Wood's Prologue to Lewis and Clark: The Mackay and Evans
                        Expedition examines 
                        Spain
                    's most ambitious endeavor to explore and control its acquired lands.2
            
            After two failed attempts by teams of explorers in 1794 and the spring of 1795, Spanish officials
                    launched a third expedition to "discover a route west of the headwaters of the
                        Missouri River across the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Coast. They
                    planned to reinforce and defend this route with a series of trading forts."3 They chose Scottish–born, veteran frontier trader James Mackay
                    (1759–1822) as commander. A Spanish citizen living in the 
                        St. Louis
                     region, Mackay spoke and wrote French fluently and had worked for British trading
                    companies in 
                        Canada
                    , eventually becoming a trader in the Mandan villages of present–day 
                        North Dakota
                    . "A man with his experience would have been priceless to the 
                        St. Louis
                     Spanish," writes Wood, "for no one in that city could match his
                    knowledge of the northern 
                  
                     2 Wood, Prologue to Lewis and Clark,
                            8–16, and 27, quoting Nicolas de Finiels, An Account of Upper
                            
                                Louisiana
                            , ed. by Carl J. Ekberg and William E. Foley, trans, by Carl J. Ekberg (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1989), p. 86, n 151.
                  
                     3 Wood, Prologue to Lewis and Clark,
                            30–34, quote p. 30.
               
                     limits of Spanish territory."4
                    Welsh–born John Thomas Evans (1770–1799) was
                    second–in–command. Evans was eager to journey up the 
                        Missouri
                     because he believed that the Mandans were "Welsh Indians,"
                    descendants of Welsh prince Madoc who, according to legend, discovered North America in 1170. The
                    instructions given to Mackay and Evans were "astonishingly similar" to those that
                    Thomas Jefferson later issued to Lewis and Clark. Indeed, the Mackay and Evans expedition, with its
                    "exploratory and scientific" goals, could be compared to the mission of the Corps
                    of Discovery "in almost every respect save one: the Americans were to open the area for
                    trade, but unlike Mackay and Evans they did not engage in trade themselves nor were they told to
                    build trading forts anywhere along their route."5
            
            In late summer of 1795 Mackay, Evans, and their men left 
                        St. Louis
                    . The crew probably comprised French immigrants and metis of French
                    and American Indian ancestry. Although 
                        Spain
                     had controlled 
                        St. Louis
                     since 1763, French–speaking settlers and their culture dominated the area.
                    Wood has difficulty identifying many of the crew members, but comments that " [i] t would
                    be interesting to know if anyone from the crew later served on the Lewis and Clark expedition; if
                    not, they undoubtedly knew some of the men who did serve the American Corps of
                        Discovery"6
            
            In November 1795 Mackay and Evans arrived at an Omaha Indian village in northeastern 
                        Nebraska
                     and constructed Fort Carlos as a winter camp.7 In June of the next
                    year, the leaders split so that the expedition could cover more territory. Evans arrived at the
                    Mandan villages in 
                        North Dakota
                     in September and learned quickly that the inhabitants were not long–lost
                    Welsh. Despite his personal disappointment, Evans vigorously pursued the goals of the Spanish
                    government, seizing a British trading post and foiling British plots against his life. In May 1797
                    he left the Man–dans, arriving back in 
                        St. Louis
                     sixty–eight days later. Mackay remained among the Omaha for the rest of 1796
                    and part of 1797, exploring eastern 
                        Nebraska
                     and accompanying the tribe on a buffalo hunt into central 
                        Nebraska
                    . In the spring, out of touch with Evans and probably under orders to return, Mackay
                    also made the journey back to 
                        St. Louis
                    .8
            
            Mackay and Evans and their expedition, well known for decades after their explorations, have
                    languished in undeserved obscurity in the 
                  
                     4 Ibid., 41.
                  
                     5 Ibid., 65.
                  
                     6 Ibid., 66.
                  
                     7 Ibid.,84.
                  
                     8 Ibid., 115–16, 128–33.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     A Mandan Rain Dance, by George Catlin. The
                            Mackay–Evans expedition explored the length of the Missouri
                            River as far north as the Mandan villages in present–day 
                                North Dakota
                            . George Catlin, The Manners, Customs, and Condition of the North
                                American Indians (
                                London
                            , 1841)
                twentieth century, but Wood restores them to their rightful place in the history of
                    western American exploration and cartography. The maps they drew were "the most precise
                    made before the Corps of Discovery traversed the area"—so much so that while
                    Lewis and Clark planned their journey and during their early travels up the 
                        Missouri
                    , they "consulted the journals and maps generated by the Scot and Welsh
                    leaders." Those maps "laid out in detail the entire first year of the Lewis and
                    Clark expedition. The captains carried copies of the Mackay and Evans charts with them and regularly
                    inspected them during their voyage."9
            
            THE MISSOURI RIVER TO THE PACIFIC OCEAN: THE CORPS OF DISCOVERY
            On January 10,1803, the past and soon–to–be expeditions had a brief meeting of
                    the ways. Lewis had already received copies of some of the Mackay/Evans maps, and now Mackay himself
                    arrived at the Corps' camp 
                  
                     9 Ibid.,134.
               
                     outside 
                        St. Louis
                     to visit William Clark and to give the captains a personal account of the
                        Missouri River as far upstream as the Mandan villages.
            Lewis and Clark began their journey northward in May 1804, and after 1,510 river miles the expedition
                    arrived at the Mandan and Hidatsa villages on October 25. They spent five months interviewing the
                    Mandans, Hidatsas, and white traders about the country to the west, and after their departure
                    depended upon Indian information and their own skills to guide them.10 On June
                    13, 1805, the expedition reached the Great Falls of the 
                        Missouri
                    , in present–day 
                        Montana
                    , a sight that Lewis described as "truly magnifficent [sic]
                    and sublimely grand." At the confluence of the three rivers that form the 
                        Missouri
                     the expedition members reached the outer limits of their geographic knowledge. Gary
                    Moulton, the editor of the Corps' journals, writes: "All the way from Fort Mandan
                    they had journeyed through country known only to the native inhabitants, until they neared the mouth
                    of the 
                        Columbia
                     and reentered the world of known geography."11 In November
                    1805 the expedition reached its goal, the Pacific Ocean. Patrick Gass recorded in his journal entry
                    for November 16: "We are now at the end of our voyage, which has been completely
                    accomplished according to the intention of the expedition … notwithstanding the
                    difficulties, privations and dangers, which we had to encounter, endure and surmount." The
                    expedition spent a miserably uncomfortable winter at Fort Clatsop on the 
                        Columbia
                     River and then set off on the return trip on March 23,1806, reaching 
                        St. Louis
                     on September 23. Three days later, William Clark noted in his final journal entry that
                    the explorers were beginning the process of writing a formal report of all of their discoveries:
                    "a fine morning we commenced wrighting & c."12
            
            "Wrighting" preserved the expedition's hard–won information
                    that would enable the American government to control and exploit the resources of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase. Historian Donald Jackson has observed that Lewis and Clark were "the
                    writingest explorers of their time. They wrote constantly and abundantly, afloat and ashore, legibly
                    and illegibly, and always with an urgent sense of purpose."13 The
                    primary source of that 
                  
                     10 James Logan Allan, Passage Through the Garden: Lewis
                                and Clark and the Image of the American Northwest (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1975), 254–55.
                  
                     11 Gary E. Moulton, ed., The Journals of the Lewis and
                                Clark Expedition, (13 vols., Lincoln, Neb., 1983–2001), 2:7, 4:285.
                            Hereafter cited asJLCE.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 10: 171; 2: 8.
                  
                     13 Donald Jackson, ed., Letters of the Lewis and Clark
                                Expedition with Related Documents, 1783–1854, 2nd ed., (2 vols., 
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1978), l:viii. Henceforth cited as LICE.
               
                     urgency was Thomas Jefferson, who ordered his explorers to
                    ascertain "by celestial observations, the geography of the country thro which you will
                    pass," to compile meticulous "observations of latitude and longitude at all
                    remarkable points on the river, & especially at the mouths of rivers, at rapids, at islands
                    & other places & objects distinguished by such natural marks & characters of
                    a durable kind, as that they may with certainty be recognized hereafter."14
            
            Jefferson wanted information about soil, plants, animals, "mineral productions of every
                    kind," and climate. Considering knowledge of the western Indian tribes to be essential to
                    "the interest which every nation has in extending & strengthening the authority of
                    reason & justice among the people around them," Jefferson ordered Lewis
                    "to acquire what knolege you can of the state of morality, religion & information
                    among them, as it may better enable those who endeavor to civilize & instruct them, to adapt
                    their measures to the existing notions & practices of those on whom they are to
                        operate."15
            
            Jefferson expected Lewis to write a polished narrative of the expedition, but Lewis died in 1809.
                    William Clark turned to Nicholas Biddle to prepare a paraphrased account based on the original
                    journals, and in 1814 Biddle published his History of the Expedition under the Command
                        of Captains Lewis and Clark. The journals sat unregarded for most of the century, until in
                    1893 Elliott Coues rediscovered them at the American Philosophical Society in 
                        Philadelphia
                     while annotating Biddle's work. A few years later, Reuben Gold Thwaites
                    compiled those documents, together with diaries and manuscripts from the descendants of William
                    Clark, the journal of Sergeant Charles Floyd, and the fragmentary journal of Private Joseph
                    Whitehouse, and published The Original Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition
                    in 1904. Throughout the twentieth century scholars added to the collection of primary documents. In
                    1916 
                        Milton
                     Quaife published Lewis and Clark's eastern journal and the journal of Sergeant
                    John Ordway. In 1953 William Clark's field notes from the winter of 1803–1804
                    surfaced, and Ernest Staples 
                        Osgood
                     published them ten years later. In 1962 the Northern Natural Gas Company of
                            
                  Omaha, Nebraska
               , purchased the materials assembled by the German Prince
                    Maximilian and the artist Karl Bodmer during their 1832–1834 North American expedition.
                    William Clark had given the prince an atlas containing copies of thirty–four of his 
                  
                     14 'Thomas Jefferson to Meriwether Lewis, April 27, 1803, LLCE, 1:61–62.
                  
                     15 bid., 62–63
               
                     route maps of the 
                        Missouri
                     and Yellowstone rivers. Not accessible to early twentieth–century scholars,
                    these maps were valuable resources for later studies.16
            
            In 1962 Donald Jackson published Letters of the Lewis and Clark Expedition with Related
                        Documents, 1783—1854, a milestone in Lewis and Clark
                        historiography.17 Jackson called for a new comprehensive edition of the
                    expedition journals: "There is new material, there are new secondary studies
                    and—perhaps most important—there are new editing techniques."18
            
            Jackson's call was answered in the next decade, when Gary Moulton at the University of 
                        Nebraska
                     began his work on a new thirteen–volume "
                        Nebraska
                     Edition"—eleven volumes of the maps and journals (of Lewis, Clark,
                    Charles Floyd, John Ordway, Patrick Gass, and Joseph Whitehouse), the expedition's
                    herbarium, and a comprehensive index. The first volume, the atlas of the expedition, appeared in
                    1983. In volume two Moulton explained the organization of the series and its editorial procedures.
                    He sought a trustworthy text "largely uncluttered with editorial interference,"
                    with a "transcription that is true to the original." The explorers'
                    "erratic, but delightful and ingenious, manner of spelling and capitalizing" were
                    major challenges. Clark, for example, creatively spelled the word "Sioux"
                    twenty–seven different ways. The editor retained the original spelling and grammar,
                    silently correcting "uncrossed t's and undotted i's" but
                    reminded readers: "Little can be promised in the way of consistency for no rule can stand
                    against Clark's inimitable style."19
            
            Volumes one through eight of the 
                        Nebraska
                     Edition contain the entries of Lewis and Clark organized by date, with each
                    day's writings separately annotated with information on "the events, persons, and
                    inquiries of the expedition." The next three volumes, organized in the same way, contain
                    the journals of the sergeants and enlisted men; these are annotated only when they differ
                    significantly from the accounts by Lewis and Clark. There are many occasions, however, when the
                    memories of the 
                  
                     16 W. Raymond Wood, Joseph C. Porter, & David C. Hunt, Karl Bodmer's Studio: The Newberry Library Bodmer Collection. (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 2002), 42.
                  
                     17 Donald Jackson, ed., Letters of the Lewis and Clark
                                Expedition with Related Documents, 1783–1854 (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1962); and Jackson's second edition, LLCE,
                            cited above. See Paul Russell Cutright, A History of the Lewis and Clark
                                Journals (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1976), chapter 10, "Donald Jackson,"
                            177–201. Cutright's assessment of Jackson's singular
                            contributions was made before the appearance of the expanded second edition of
                            Jackson's LLCE.
                  
                  
                     18
                            LLCE, xiii.
                  
                     19
                            JLCE 2:49–54, quote pp. 49–50.
               
                     enlisted men differ from their captains' and times
                    when they see things that Lewis and Clark miss. Because of these differences, the annotations to
                    their journals refer more often to people encountered along the way, as well as to places, flora,
                    and fauna. Moulton thus follows the precedent of readers turning first to Lewis and Clark and then
                    to the enlisted men's diaries as supplements.20
            
            The 
                        Nebraska
                     Edition of the Lewis and Clark journals stands as a scholarly milestone in the
                    historiography of exploration in the western hemisphere. Its monumental length, however, did not
                    meet the need for a convenient, comprehensive, readable abridgement of the journals. Published by
                    the same press to coincide with the bicentennial of the expedition, The Lewis and Clark
                        Journals: An American Epic of Discovery is a single–volume model of the art of
                    abridgement. It focuses on the expedition's interaction with and observation of Native
                    Americans and natural history, while still capturing the narrative thread and excitement of the
                        journey.21
            
            LESSER–KNOWN MEMBERS OF THE CORPS
            In 1805, Lewis wrote that seven non–commissioned officers and enlisted men kept journals;
                    to date, however, only those of sergeants John Ordway, Charles Floyd, Patrick Gass, and Private
                    Joseph Whitehouse are known.22 The accounts of Sergeant Nathaniel Pryor and
                    Private Robert Frazer remain lost to history, as does the identity of the seventh journalist. Floyd
                    had the briefest journal, beginning on May 14,1804 and ending on August 20, two days before his
                    death near 
                  Sioux City, Iowa
               . Gass, promoted to sergeant to replace Floyd, kept a
                    journal with details unique to his interests. The expedition carpenter, Gass earned the gratitude of
                    future historians by being "the only journal keeper" to record the dimensions of
                    Fort Mandan, the expedition's 1804 winter quarters.23 Sergeant John
                    Ordway kept the longest continuous journal of all of the Corps members, writing daily from May 14,
                    1804, until September 23, 1806, and surpassing Clark as the most diligent journalist.24 Ordway's faithfulness is 
                  
                     20 Ibid., 2:53.
                  
                     21 Moulton, ed., The Lewis and Clark Journals: An
                                American Epic of Discovery: The Abridgment of the Definitive 
                                    Nebraska
                                 Edition (Lincoln, Neb., 2003).
                  
                     22]LCE 10:xii–xiii.
                  
                     23 Ibid., 10:xv.
                  
                     24 lbid.
               
                    
                    
                  An illustration from the journal of Patrick Gass. The sergeant's
                            account was published in 1807, making it the first by a participant of the expedition to be
                            printed. Woodcuts were added for three 
                                Philadelphia
                             editions beginning in 1810. Patrick Gass, Journals of the Voyages
                                and Travels of a Corps of Discovery…, 3rd ed. (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1811)
                all the more remarkable because he was first sergeant and, after the captains, had the
                    most numerous and demanding responsibilities.25
            
            Historians have also used the bicentennial of the expedition as an opportunity to underscore the
                    significant role of the French in American exploration. The roster of the Corps included five men
                    and one child of French heritage: privates Pierre Cruzatte, Francois Labiche, and John Baptiste
                    Lepage; and interpreters George Drouillard and Toussaint Charbon–neau, the last of whom
                    traveled with his Shoshone wife Sacagawea and their infant son Jean Baptiste. Of the six, four were
                    French metis: La Biche and Cruzatte were French–Omaha; Drouillard was
                    French–Shawnee; and litde Jean Baptiste was French–Shoshone. La Biche and
                    Cruzatte were sturdy and diligent men throughout the journey, and they played a crucial role during
                    the expedition's nearly violent confrontation with the Lakota. Drouillard was an
                    accomplished interpreter and hunter and received the highest salary of any man on the expedition.
            
               
                  25 Ibid. Private Joseph Whitehouse started his journal on May 14, 1804,
                        and ended it in November 1805, but a paraphrase copy of his narrative continues through April 2,
                        1806.
            
            
            W. Dale Nelson's Interpreters with Lewis and Clark: The Story of Sacagawea and
                        Toussaint Charbonneau and M.O. Skarsten's George Drouillard: Hunter
                        and Interpreter for Lewis and Clark and Fur Trader, 1807–1810 art excellent
                    companion volumes to the expedition journals and to Wood's study of Mackay and Evans.
                    Numerous contemporaries and many subsequent historians have regarded Charbonneau as a lecherous,
                    lazy, incompetent, ne'er–do–well; W. Dale Nelson presents a very
                    different view of the man. Toussaint Charbonneau (1758–ca 1843) was born near Montreal
                    and by 1796 was a trader among the Mandan and Hidatsa. Charbonneau was a braggart, claiming
                    "that when he arrived on the 
                        Missouri
                     it was so small he could straddle it." He married Sacagawea (ca
                    1788–1812), a Lemhi Shoshone captured by Hidatsa raiders about 1800, and by the spring of
                    1805 she was expecting their first child.26 Lewis and Clark knew that her
                    knowledge of the territory and of the Indian tribes to the West would be crucial to the expedition.
            The journals and letters of the Corps indicate that the men respected and admired the indefatigable,
                    resourceful, and personable Sacagawea, and Clark befriended the Charbonneau family for the rest of
                    their lives. Nelson corrects a widespread misconception about the Shoshone woman, writing that
                    "except on rare occasions she was not a guide." When the captains divided the
                    expedition on their 1806 return trip, Sacagawea traveled with Clark's group and did act as
                    a guide in at least one instance, showing Clark how to reach the Yellowstone River via the Bozeman
                        Pass.27
            
            The Charbonneaus remained at the Mandan villages after the expedition departed for 
                        St. Louis
                    . In 1812 Sacagawea "died of a putrid fever" at Fort Manuel, South
                    Dakota. She was survived by her husband, son, and infant daughter, Lisette. The fur trader who
                    recorded her death wrote that she was "a good woman—the best in the
                    fort." Nelson follows Toussaint's career until his death in the 1840s, portraying
                    him as a skilled frontiersman who faithfully served the 
                        United States
                     and American trading companies. In 1810, as Nicholas Biddle prepared his history of the
                    Lewis and Clark expedition, Toussaint worked with Clark to recall the details; during the War of
                    1812, he spied for the Americans, reporting British attempts to recruit Indian allies in the
                        Missouri River country.28
            
            
               
                  26 W. Dale Nelson, Interpreters with Lewis and Clark: The
                            Story of Sacagawea and Toussaint Charbonneau. (Denton, Tex., 2003), 6–10,
                        quote p. 9.
               
                  27 Ibid.,10, 60.
               
                  28 Ibid., 73, 70, 3.
            
            
            
               Fort Manuel, South Dakota, recently restored. Toussaint Charbonneau and Sacagawea were living at
                        the fort at the time of her death in 1812. Photo by Roger Lawien. Courtesy
                        Moreau–Grand Electric Cooperative
            
            Nelson also details the life of Jean Baptiste Charbonneau (1805–1866), who accompanied the
                    Corps of Discovery as an infant. Baptiste grew up among the Indians along the Missouri
                        River, but was educated in 
                        St. Louis
                    , supported by William Clark. He returned for a while to life on the frontier, and along
                    the Missouri River in 1823 met Duke Paul of Wurttemberg. Baptiste accompanied
                    the duke to 
                        Germany
                    , where he remained for four years, attending the local public schools. Raised in Indian
                    country, educated in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Germany
                    , fluent in French, English, Spanish, German, and several Indian languages, Baptiste
                    Charbonneau was, wrote one journalist who knew him, "a gentleman of superior
                    education" with "a quaint humor and shrewdness in his conversation."29
            
            A Zelig–like figure in western American history, Jean Baptiste Charbonneau seemed to be
                    everywhere. His life encompassed the trans–
                        Mississippi
                     West from the Rio Grande to the northern Great Plains and 
                  
                     29 Ibid., 76–83, quote from Rufus B. Sage, Rocky Mountain Life … (1858; reprint, Lincoln, Neb., 1982),
                            205–07.
               
                     the Wind River, and from the Missouri
                    River to the Pacific Ocean. Baptiste knew or worked with, among others, Kit Carson,
                    Manuel Lisa, the Bent Brothers, Ceran St. Vrain, James Beckwourth, John C. Fremont, Sir William
                    Drummond Stewart, and General Stephen W. Kearney. During the Mexican War Baptiste guided Lt. Colonel
                    Philip St. George Cooke's Mormon Battalion to 
                        California
                    , as they sought to firmly establish American power on the Pacific coast.
            The Lewis and Clark expedition and the Mexican War bracketed the geo–strategic
                    transformation of the 
                        United States
                     into a transcontinental nation, and Baptiste participated in both. The infant who had
                    spent his first winter of life at 
                  Fort Clatsop,
                            Oregon
               , in 1805–1806 died in
                    1866 and was buried near 
                  Danner, Oregon
               . Jean Baptiste Charbonneau, after a most
                    remarkable life, was indeed home. Interpreters with Lewis and Clark is erudite and
                    readable, providing a nuanced appraisal of Toussaint Charbonneau, correcting the mythology of
                    Sacagawea, and offering an excellent summary of Baptiste's life.
            George Drouillard (ca early 1770s–1810), the second interpreter who accompanied the Corps
                    of Discovery, was the son of a French Canadian father and a Shawnee mother. The late M.O. Skarsten
                    first published George Drouillard: Hunter and Interpreter for Lewis and Clark and Fur
                        Trader, 1807–1810 in 1964 to excellent reviews.30 Robert C.
                    Carriker has now written an introduction to a second edition of this classic work. Skarsten did his
                    research in the 1950s and 1960s, confronting difficulties because the elusive Drouillard so seldom
                    appeared in the records and documents of his era and because so much scholarship about Lewis and
                    Clark has taken place since the 1960s and was unavailable. Skarsten openly admired Drouillard, and
                    his book carries a more worshipful tone than Nelson's nuanced work on the Charbonneaus (in
                    part, of course, because Nelson had far more material on which to rely when writing about that
                    family). Yet Drouillard was a remarkable individual, and Skarsten remains a good source on this
                    Shawnee–French American who figured prominently in the history of western American
                    exploration.
            In addition to new biographical information about members of the Lewis and Clark expedition, some
                    historians are seeking different ways to look at the traditional journals, letters, and maps. Thomas
                    P. Slaughter, in Exploring Lewis and Clark: Reflections on Men and Wilderness,
                    eschews the 
                  
                     30 M.O. Skarsten, George Drouillard: Hunter and
                                Interpreter for Lewis & Clark and Fur Trader, 1807–1810, 2nd ed.
                            (Spokane, Wash., 2003).
               
                     approach of historians who "generally adopt the same
                    chronological, episodic approach" employed by the members of the Corps. Slaughter admits
                    that linearity is often useful for historians, but he seeks a different perspective, focusing on the
                    "variety of intercultural, interspecies, and geographic engagements" recorded by
                    the expedition. He draws upon the discipline of cultural anthropology to examine how humans
                    "react to the 'new' through a sequence of emotional responses that.
                    … filter such experiences through myths, dreams, hope, fear, and our sense of
                    self." Humans first "rationalize newness," then come to "an
                    emotional/intellectual place" where they can relate to different beings and things, and
                    finally reach ownership of their knowledge, "taking possession in some fashion that gives
                    'newness' order and meaning." According to Slaughter, this typology is
                    useful when examing the history of the American frontier because during that period and in those
                    places "men exhibited a need for control that resulted in violence, sometimes in silence,
                    not often enough in awe. Sometimes our ancestors felt lost; occasionally they were found in some
                    mystical sense."31
            
            Slaughter considers the Lewis and Clark expedition as "an occasion for contemplating first
                    meetings on the American frontier." In pursuing this theme, he deeply analyzes the texts
                    and the people and culture that produced them. He begins the book by examining the mythical
                    foundations of the trip and the journals themselves. He also looks at the "secular and
                    historical ambitions" of the captains. Several chapters try to "gaze outside the
                    journals" to understand the most liminal members of the expedition: Clark's slave
                    York; the teenaged Sacagawea (whom Slaughter also labels as a "slave," having been
                    captured in childhood and then married to a man thirty years her senior); and even Lewis's
                    Newfoundland dog Seaman.32
            
            A brief review cannot fully describe Slaughter's multidimensional textual analysis, but one
                    illustration provides an intriguing example. Slaughter comments extensively on the events of August
                    25, 1804. The expedition was in 
                        Clay
                     County, South Dakota, and the captains decided to visit "the Mound which the
                    Indians Call Mountain of little people or Spirits."33
                    A party including the captains, York, and Seaman began a hard 
                  
                     31 Thomas R Slaughter, Exploring Lewis and Clark:
                                Reflections on Men and Wilderness, (
                                New York
                            , 2003), xiv, xvi, xv.
                  
                     32 Ibid., xv–xvii.
                  
                     33
                            JLCE, 3: 9.
               
                     walk at 8:00 A.M. and reached the apex of the mound four hours
                    later. Seaman did not complete the climb, becoming "So Heeted & fatigued we was
                    obliged Send him back to the Creek." Clark, upon returning to the boat at sunset, observed
                    "my Servent nearly exosted with heat thurst, and fatigue, he being fat and un accustomed to
                    walk as fast as I went."34 Clark also recorded "Capt Lewis
                    much fatigued from heat the day it being verry hot… and Several of the men complaining of
                    Great thirst."35
            
            Slaughter attempts to go beyond Clark's description of the mound and the day's
                    weather. Did Clark, asks Slaughter, dismiss Indian beliefs that the hill was holy and occupied by
                    spirits and refuse to recognize its mystical properties? Why did the brisk pace to the hill and back
                    exhaust York, and why did the group set such a pace? Why, Slaughter wonders, unless they were
                    spooked by spiritual presences but stubbornly clung to their own beliefs about Indian
                        superstitions?36 Slaughter also suggests that Seaman "gave
                    out" when he sensed the spirituality of the hill, "because animals often sense
                    trouble before humans can see it."37 Slaughter's exegesis is
                    more complex than this brief summary, yet it invites other, perhaps more prosaic, interpretations
                    based on the same narrative. Clark recorded that Lewis and others suffered from the heat, and it was
                    a torrid August day that could produce thirst and heat fatigue. York was a big man who might have
                    been affected by the climate before the others; Seaman was a Newfoundland, a large, heavy breed of
                    waterdog developed along the north Atlantic coast to work in a cold, damp environment.38 Indeed, on this day, Clark recorded his only temperature reading taken between May 14
                    and September 19 of 1804 (86 degrees fahrenheit at 3 P.M.). Was the day so hot that it attracted
                    Clark's attention enough for him to note the temperature?39 Sometimes,
                    especially on the Great Plains, a hot day is just a hot day.
            
               
                  34 Ibid., 3:8.
               
                  35 Ibid., 3:9.
               
                  36 Slaughter, Exploring Lewis and Clark,
                        21–24.
               
                  37 Ibid., 22.
               
                  38 Andrew DePrisco and James B. Johnson, The
                            Mini–Atlas of Dog Breeds (Neptune City, N.J., 1990), 141.
               
                  39
                        JLCE3, p. 13nl2, p. 91 n 1.
            
         
         
         
            The Large Book versus the Small
            A Presidential Historian's Consideration of Three Recent Biographies
            ROBERT H. FERRELL
            Ours seems to be the time of the large book, those huge bestsellers that cover the tables in
                    bookstores across the country. The biographical volumes among these books might be described as
                    "lives and times." They are written in such an exquisite amount of detail that
                    they present a challenge to readers, both scholarly and non. Older scholars like myself find the
                    books of younger historians piling up around us, and we wonder where we might find time to read such
                    a flood. Confronting an eight–hundred–page biography, and calculating twenty
                    to twenty–five pages per hour for reading, each of these onrushing books would require
                    thirty or forty hours of time. Unless, that is, we skimmed; whereupon we could respond positively to
                    the queries of younger colleagues as to whether we had read the latest scholarship. We
                    had—that is, we had scampered through several hundred pages in an hour, or maybe two or
                    three.
            The trend toward the dominance of the large book in historical biography is, in my judgment,
                    radically wrong. But it does have a history, and understanding something of the context of
                    today's over–long historical 
                  Robert H. Ferrell is professor emeritus of history at Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     blockbusters may help to make more sense of the books under
                    consideration in this review essay. The first generation of scholars to produce these large books
                    did so under the influence of the late Samuel Eliot Morison, 
                        Harvard
                     professor and dean of post–World–War–II American
                    historians. Not long after the war, in which Morison served as a naval officer, he produced (albeit
                    with many assiduous assistants) a huge, fifteen–volume account of the Navy from the
                    beginning of the war until the end.1 During the same period Morison also wrote
                    one of his most trenchant essays, "History as a Literary Art," in which he decried
                    the "dull, solid, valuable monographs" published pre–1945.2 Published and republished, for a time distributed free of charge at historical
                    conferences, the essay had an almost immediate effect. Young scholars, among them Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger, Jr., Frank Freidel, and Arthur S. Link, went to work on multivolume biographies.3 Although their admiring peers seemed not to notice, these writers were too
                    ambitious; none of the three finished the series that he had set out to write. Nevertheless, their
                    work set a pattern for scholarly historical writing in subsequent decades. Morison's
                    admonitions for color and dash in historical writing were to the good, but he left a more dubious
                    legacy in the flood of large books and multivolume chronicles that followed.
            Why does the flood of bestsellers (as publishers are quick to denominate them) persist today? The
                    first fault lies with scholarly authors and the tools of their profession. Word processors have
                    virtually taken over the composition process. With the ability to produce beautiful copy, and to
                    transpose sentences or paragraphs without a telltale mark, computer software can fool a writer into
                    thinking that what looks right is right. Today's authors also have a much greater
                    temptation to overwrite and then to bypass the time–consuming process of cutting and
                    editing one's prose. Where one handwritten page might have done, five quickly typed pages
                    will now do better; first drafts come to be regarded as fifth drafts.4
            
            
               
                  1 Samuel Eliot Morison, History of 
                                United States
                             Naval Operations in World War II, 15 vols. (
                            Boston
                        , 1947–1962).
               
                  2 Samuel Eliot Morison, "History as a Literary Art," in
                        Sailor Historian: The Best of Samuel Eliot Morison, ed. Emily Morison Beck (
                            Boston
                        , 1977), 383–93.
               
                  3 ArthurM. Schlesinger, Jr., The Age of Roosevelt (3
                        vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1957–); Frank Freidel, Franklin D. Roosevelt (4 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1952–); Arthur S. Link, Wilson (5 vols., 
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1947–).
               
                  4 My friend John Lukacs, author of some twenty–five books, told
                        me recently of losing an entire chapter of text after switching from his typewriter to a word
                        processor. Lukacs gave the machine away and found an IBM typewriter to take its place.
            
            
            The nature of historical narrative also seems to confound many of today's authors. Anyone
                    who attempts to write a biography knows that many points in the story require background
                    description. Such pages can pile up in a hurry; all too often, they may duplicate information
                    already in other books, be grossly repetitive, and add little or nothing to the store of historical
                    knowledge.
            The second fault lies with the bookselling chain stores, which have created a new class of book
                    buyers—the perusers. These individuals, who purchase books by
                    word–of–mouth, cover art, or size, hesitate to pay $30 for a book
                    of two hundred pages when they might get five times as many pages for the same amount. They want to
                    be able to turn pages until they find particular points of interest; they surf through books in the
                    same way they move through web screens and television programs.
            Finally, big books are encouraged by the insatiable demand of colleges and universities for scholars
                    to publish in order to obtain tenure and promotion. Committees see a blockbuster biography listed on
                    a curriculum vitae as a major accomplishment; a small book, it is often assumed, could and should
                    have been published as a journal article. No one on the committee may have read the large book, but
                    their assumptions govern the decision to tenure or promote.
            Consider, in that light, the three books that follow. All of them reinforce the above arguments in
                    one way or another. All are recent biographies of presidents—Richard M. Nixon, Lyndon B.
                    Johnson, and Ronald Reagan. The first two are recent hardcover publications; the last was published
                    in hardcover several years ago and is now available in paperback.
            Iwan Morgan's Nixon is the smallest of the three, a mere 228 pages,
                    including the index. Its one–word title is a preview of the book, which is short and
                    written to the subject. Morgan's chapters reinforce this: reputation, character, elephant
                    man (a delightful description), American Disraeli (surely a sign of the author's English
                    background), cold warrior, world statesman, imperial president, and conclusion. The book is a
                    setpiece, written to order as part of a series that includes biographies of Thomas More, Oliver
                    Cromwell, and Louis XVI. It may have been targeted to busy Britons who need a book to put in a
                    pocket and read on the bus or train.
            Morgan's name may be familiar to IMH readers as an author and former
                    member of the journal's editorial board; it will, undeservedly, ring fewer bells among the
                    majority of American historians. He deserves wider recognition, for he writes clearly and well. His
                    book is pithy; it gathers its points into quick summaries. If a reader wishes to know what this
                    president was like, here are most of the answers. Yes, Morgan's picture tends to  the black and white. He offers no grand new interpretation, but
                    he brings in the subtleties and draws his conclusions convincingly.5 This is an
                    extraordinarily knowledgeable book and contains only a single misidenti–fication: Nixon
                    official Alexander Butterfield, who revealed the existence of the oval office tapes, is here given
                    the first name Herbert. Morgan's writing displays a sure sense for words, and in only one
                    place has American jargon entered in, this in his affection for the term
                    "prioritize" (used six times). Apart from this, the volume is one of the tightest
                    and most thoughtful biographies of recent years.
            The longest of the books under review is Robert A. Caro's Master of the
                    Senate, the third volume in his The Years of Lyndon Johnson.
               6 This book of 1,167 pages requires no review in detail, for its size speaks for it. Indeed,
                    the Caro volume stands as the best possible example of the large book among recent presidential
                    biographies. It is a life and times book; it does not center on Johnson, and herein lies the
                    trouble. Johnson's presidency was important in the history of the 
                        United States
                    . But should a volume covering Johnson's years in the Senate read as a history
                    of the U. S. Senate, as this book does?7 A reader whose time is limited cannot
                    read a book requiring sixty hours of attention (as Caro's third volume does). It is
                    possible to leaf such a volume, reading the topic sentences, surveying the book's contents
                    as if from above, and only descend into the woods—the actual contents of the
                    paragraphs—when the aerial view proves sufficiently exciting.
            Moving through the book in such a manner and stopping at a randomly chosen page, the reader sees, in
                    a chapter–ending paragraph, a discussion of Johnson's relationship with his
                    fellow senator Hubert Humphrey in the early days of their Senate careers. Humphrey was a liberal;
                    Johnson 
                  
                     5
                            IMH readers may be interested in Morgan's references to the works
                            of scholars with Indiana University connections: Joan Hoff, formerly a member of the history
                            faculty, and Irwin Gellman, who received his doctorate in history in 1970. For their work on
                            Nixon, see Joan Hoff, Nixon Reconsidered (
                                New York
                            , 1994); Irwin F Gellman, The Contender: Richard Nixon, the
                                Congress Years, 1946–1952 (
                                New York
                            , 1999).
                  
                     6 The author plans a fourth, and he claims, final volume on his
                            subject. But how he will shoehorn Johnson's presidency into a single volume, when
                            he has already published three leading up to it, is a mystery, already raised by many
                            reviewers.
                  
                     7 Recently another biographer has written on a different president,
                            proposing to show how the Senate of another era was organized and to give new understanding
                            to his subject who, like Johnson, came out of the Senate into the presidency. See Alonzo L.
                            Hamby, Man of the People: A Life of Harry S. Truman (
                                New York
                            , 1995).
               
                     still conservative. Humphrey had learned to compromise; Johnson
                    might well have moved then to Humphrey's point of view, leaguing up with him and his
                    supporters, but Johnson calculated that the move was not yet profitable. Caro uses a full paragraph
                    for what he could have said in six words: "Johnson did not find Humphrey useful."
                    Such self–indulgent writing is typical of Caro; he seems to believe that anything he
                    writes will be of interest.
            The book to end all books in its self–indulgence, however, is Edmund Morris's Dutch, a 1999 biography of Ronald Reagan. Morris, author of the Pulitzer
                    Prize–winning The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (1979), spent fourteen
                    years writing this biography. He received first access to Reagan's private papers, traveled
                    with the ex–president and his wife, and conducted many interviews with both. Published by
                    Knopf with sizable advances, the book was widely anticipated. Its reception admittedly was mixed,
                    but testimonies in favor abounded. The publisher has gathered a small number of these on the end
                    cover and, in a note to the paperback edition, admits the mixed reception but maintains that the
                    book is a "page–turner."
            If most of the large books of recent times have little excuse for being, the 874–page
                    Morris memoir has the least of all of them. It is an embarrassment to its author, who comes across
                    as someone without the slightest understanding of why readers would buy the book—that is,
                    to know more about Ronald Reagan. Not to know more about the man's times, for so many other
                    books have filled us in on the period, but to learn something of Reagan.
            In such a lengthy tome, Morris often ignores or misses interesting details. To this reader
                    Reagan's papers said little about his early life, at least the years prior to 1937 when he
                    went to Hollywood. Here aiook by Stephen Vaughn8
                    (Ronald Reagan in Hollywood: Movies and Politics, 1994) offers a
                    positive example, for Vaughn has ferreted out detail that Morris apparently missed. Vaughn writes,
                    for example, of Reagan's youthful romance with a fellow resident of 
                  Dixon, Illinois
               . "Mugs" was the daughter of the minister of
                    Dixon's Christian (Disciples of Christ) church, which Reagan also attended. The two knew
                    each other well and eventually became engaged, but then went their separate ways. Morris does
                    include a photograph of Mugs, her round face surrounded by dark curls, and the illustration says
                    more than Morris's flat portrayal: this was a pretty girl who got away.
            
               
                  8 Vaughn received his doctorate in history from Indiana University 
                            Bloomington
                         in 1977.
            
            
            Morris's portrayal of the Midwest, including Dixon, is condescending. His description of the
                    cornfields that stretched out from the town in the 1920s and 1930s seems meant to say that the
                    people of Dixon were corn–fed. He thinks the town arid—but then so are parts
                    of many small towns and large urban centers. He also pokes fun at Dixon's churchgoers. In
                    about that same time, I attended church in Bowling Green and 
                  Deshler, Ohio
               , and in the
                    even smaller towns of Custar and 
                        Milton
                     Center. These good places and people deserve better than to be the objects of
                    Morris's condescending humor. Nor is it amusing to read of the narrowness of Eureka College
                    when Mugs and "Ronnie" were there; all of us have seen and know such institutions.
                    They were different from Yale and 
                        Harvard
                     and 
                        Princeton
                    , but they had their virtues—students and teachers worked hard, sometimes
                    succeeding and sometimes not. My parents graduated in the Wooster College (
                        Ohio
                    ) class of 1915. Their class of fewer than forty people included the Compton brothers
                    (one a Nobel Prize–winning physicist and the other a president of Massachusetts Institute
                    of Technology), a president of General Electric, and a nationally known oil geologist.
            All of the above says nothing of the incessant interventions of Morris's special literary
                    device—his now infamous "other self," an invented character who is a
                    contemporary of his subject and hence can act as observer. This character is a
                    self–conscious writer who marries a violist and has a son who attends the University of 
                        California
                     at Berkeley (which gives the author a chance to relate the riots at that school, an
                    episode that, having nothing to do either with learning or free speech, is best left forgotten). As
                    governor of 
                        California
                    , Reagan had to deal with the conflicts at Berkeley, but it is disturbing to read about
                    them from the perspective of Morris's invented son.
            A final liability of this book is its profanity The words are still shocking to see in print; they
                    are painfully explicit in regard to things all readers know about and need no reminders of. They
                    are, in a word, not literary.
            Some comment on my own work may be necessary here, lest I be accused of similar
                    self–indulgence. It is true that I have published several large books. One, Dear Bess: The Letters from Harry to Bess Truman, was also a bestseller. It brought
                    together something less than half of what I believe were the most remarkable letters ever written by
                    a president of the 
                        United States
                    : 1,268 letters (all but one handwritten), discursive, honest, and brisk. The material
                    was brand new, found in the Truman house in Independence—under sofa cushions, in closets,
                    in books, and in the attic where both pigeons and raccoons had gotten in (the latter, having eaten
                    the pigeons, then discovered jars of jam, which they opened, smearing  letters with both feathers and jam). Given a similar opportunity, I
                    would do the book again. Another big book was a diplomatic history of the 
                        United States
                     that served as a course textbook. A third book, part of the New American Nation series
                    and fairly large at 346 pages, covered Woodrow Wilson and the First World War. For that I undertook
                    to see as much material, unpublished as well as published, as possible; the book was the result of
                    wide–ranging use of historical manuscript collections across the country. So there have
                    been times when I have felt the need to produce long works in order to do justice to an historical
                        subject.9
            
            For the rest of it I have long since reverted to monographs, now numbering ten or more, about
                    subjects that I consider important and novel. How Truman got along, honorably, with Thomas J.
                    Pendergast and nearly lost his Senate seat in 1940, whereupon he would have passed into obscurity.
                    How Truman received the Democratic nomination for vice–president in 1944 and hence became
                    president of the 
                        United States
                    . How Franklin D. Roosevelt, dying of heart failure, could not resist a fourth term and
                    took it, irresponsibly, when he was of good mind but so short of concentration time (ten minutes)
                    that he should have retired. How Warren G. Harding died two deaths: one his physical death (from a
                    heart attack and not a stroke, as his physicians announced), and the other the death of his
                    reputation, done in by everyone who refused to read the sources. (Calvin Coolidge once said about
                    book reviewing that he always tried to review a book before he read it, for otherwise it might
                    prejudice his review.)10
            
            More recently I have turned to edited books (three) and monographs (three) on World War I, the
                    five–day collapse of the 35th Division (Truman's division), the Lost Battalion,
                    and the great battle of the Meuse–Argonne, the largest and most costly battle in all
                    American history to the present writing.11
            
            
               
                  9 Robert H. Ferrell, ed., Dear Bess: The Letters from Harry
                            to Bess Truman, 1910–1959 (
                            New York
                        , 1983); Ferrell, American Diplomacy: A History (
                            New York
                        , 1959, 1969, 1975, 1987); Ferrell, Woodrow Wilson and World War I,
                            1917–1921 (
                            New York
                        , 1985).
               
                  10 Robert H. Ferrell, Truman andPendergast (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1999); Ferrell, Choosing Truman: The Democratic Convention of
                            1944 (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1994); Ferrell, The Dying President: Franklin D. Roosevelt,
                            1944–1945 (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1998); Ferrell, The Strange Deaths of President Harding (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1996).
               
                  11 See, for example, Robert H. Ferrell, Collapse at
                            Meuse–Argonne: The Failure of the
                        
                            Missouri
                        –
                            Kansas
                         Division (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 2004). 1.2 million Americans fought at the Meuse–Argonne; 26,000
                        died, twice as many as at Okinawa in 1945.
            
            
            The art and craft of writing history is far from dead, and even the field of presidential biography
                    will attest to this. Iwan Morgan's clear and succinct biography of Nixon, Stephen
                    Vaughn's monograph on Reagan's years in Hollywood, and works by other
                    up–and–coming scholars are both readable and well worth the time it takes to
                    read them. Too often, however, the decision to follow Morison's call for a new literary
                    history has served as a license to excess and self–indulgence. Writing a large book, when
                    a monograph would suffice, is a regrettable trend amongst biographers of the last half of the
                    twentieth century. It is to be hoped that scholars of the new century will proceed with greater
                    sensitivity toward the reader who is, after all, the ultimate reason for any book's
                    existence.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               On Her Own Ground The Life and Times of Madam C.J. Walker By A'Lelia
                    Bundles (
                        New York
                    : Scribner, 2001. Pp. 415. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $30.00.)
            
               Her Dream of Dreams The Rise and Triumph of Madam C.J. Walker By Beverly Lowry (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 2003. Pp. 481. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $27.50.)
            Madam C. J. Walker, the celebrated 
                        Indianapolis
                    –based beauty culturist, is one of the more intriguing figures of the
                    twentieth century. Born Sarah Breedlove in 
                        Louisiana
                     in 1867, the daughter of impoverished sharecroppers, she was an orphan at seven, a wife
                    at fourteen, a mother at eighteen, and a widow at twenty. As a laundress with only three months of
                    formal education she was able to accumulate a fortune and to carve out for herself a role as a
                    prominent race leader on the national stage. At the time of her death in 1919 at the age of
                    fifty–one (fifteen short years after she had abandoned the washtub), Madam Walker had
                    amassed an estate valued at close to $600,000—the equivalent of $6
                    million in today's dollars—and was universally esteemed, not only as the
                    "foremost business woman of her race" and an exemplar of black achievement, but
                    also as a philanthropist and political activist. That she was able to rise from poverty and
                    obscurity to become one of the first women of color (and one of the few women of any hue) to achieve
                    wealth and influence through her own efforts is a testament to her will, ambition, and keen
                    intelligence.
            Despite her singular accomplishments and her stature as a "race woman" who counted
                    among her admirers and collaborators the likes of  Booker T.
                    Washington, Ida B. Wells–Barnett, and W E. B. DuBois, Walker has received little serious
                    note from scholars. Now, with two full–length treatments published within two years of
                    each other, Madam C. J. Walker finally receives her due as an important actor in early
                    twentieth–century history.
            A'Lelia Bundles's On Her Own Ground admirably chronicles the
                    uncommon life of this very remarkable woman. Bundles, the
                    great–great–granddaughter of Madam Walker, is the leading Walker scholar and
                    has written what many will deem the definitive biography. With exclusive access to private family
                    papers and company files, decades of extensive investigation, and a lifetime of intimate knowledge
                    of family lore, she has meticulously researched and deftly crafted an absorbing portrait. Bundles
                    follows Walker from her 
                  Delta, Louisiana
               , roots to 
                  Vicksburg, Mississippi
               , to
                            
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               , where Walker encountered Annie Pope–Turnbo, the
                    woman who introduced her to the hair–care business and became (as Annie Malone) her
                    lifelong rival for dominance of the black beauty market. In search of less competitive environs,
                    Walker, with husband C.J. Walker in tow, departed first for 
                        Denver
                    , moved on to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and eventually resided in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where she established her headquarters. After her death in 1919, her flamboyant
                    daughter A'Lelia Walker and staid business manager E B. Ransom erected the Walker
                    Manufacturing Company. The plant, in op eration from 1927 to 1979, is currently a cultural center, a
                    tribute to its original owner's extraordinary accomplishments.
            Bundles not only charts Walker's tireless promotion of her business but also emphasizes her
                    equally unflagging commitment to racial advancement, which seemed to grow in tandem with her
                    business success. She was a member, a contributor, and a major player in the key
                    self–help and civil rights organizations of her day and was involved in nearly every
                    important movement for racial justice locally, nationally, and internationally. In addition, she
                    organized her own Walker agents into a group that she envisioned would be a force for social change.
            Bundles's work is balanced and objective. Her reverence for Walker is obvious, but it does
                    not deter her from debunking certain accepted myths. She reveals, for example, that Madam Walker did
                    not invent the pressing comb as popularly believed and that she never attained millionaire status.
                    Finally, Walker, though a pioneer, was not so much an originator of the techniques and products she
                    marketed as an astute and hardworking businesswoman who refined existing methods, tools, and trends
                    to build a business empire that recognized the needs and aspirations of an incipient black female
                    consumer market.
            Beverly Lowry, for her part, covers much the same ground as Bundles, supplying more information about
                    Walker's contemporaries and about the various communities where she  operated her business. At 442 pages of text, hers is the heftier of the
                    two volumes, but in this case breadth does not necessarily translate into greater depth. Lowry often
                    speculates about what she does not know; she interjects herself into the narrative, giving readers a
                    telling glimpse of her own dogged pursuit of the sometimes elusive Walker. Despite some minor errors
                    of fact, hers is a richly detailed rendering that is entertaining and highly readable. Both books
                    are wel– come additions to the growing literature on the black female experience and
                    deserve a place on the shelf of anyone interested in women's history, African American
                    history, or simply the triumph of talent and will over circumstance.
            GWEN MOORE is a doctoral candidate at Indiana University.
                    Her dissertation focuses on the involvement of black women in American radical politics during the
                    interwar years.
         
         
            
               From Under the Cloud at the Seven Steeples The Peculiarly Saddened Life of Anna Agnew
                        in the Indiana Hospital for the Insane, 1878–1885 By Lucy Jane King (Zionsville,
                    Ind.: Guild Press, 2002. Pp. ix, 189. Illustrations, select bibliography, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)
            Anna Agnew, a former resident of the Indiana Hospital for the Insane, published an account of her
                    experiences in 1886 under the title From Under the Cloud. However popular during
                    its day, the book faded into obscurity until its recent rediscovery by a retired 
                        Indianapolis
                     psychiatrist, Lucy Jane King. Using Agnew's memoir as an armature, King
                    sculpts an historical tale, molding biography, institutional analysis, and policy critique into a
                    lively whole.
            Agnew was forty–two when she was committed in 1878 to the state institution after
                    dispensing an ounce of laudanum to one of her children. A wife and mother living in 
                        Vincennes
                    , she had attempted suicide several times with overdoses of medication. The large
                    asylum, located in the state capital, was organized around the principles of moral treatment, with
                    the idea that pleasant surroundings, social activities, and regular routines could improve mental
                    health among patients. But sometimes, as Agnew eloquently describes in her memoir, ward attendants
                    subverted such doctrines when facing unruly residents. As Agnew endured inhumane treatment in the
                    hospital, her family relationships eroded, with a divorce from her husband and estrangement from her
                    three children. Discharged in 1885, Anna described her literary motivation deriving from a mixture
                    of emotional catharsis, financial benefit, and, most  important,
                    "strengthening the fainting heart of some other victim of this fearful horror,
                    insanity" (p. 29).
            King shares Agnew's dismay over the stigma of mental illness and rescues Agnew's
                    personal narrative by placing it at the center of a triumphal tale that contrasts
                    nineteenth–century views on the mentally ill with recent medical perspectives. Etiology,
                    treatment modalities, and public policy all receive extended treatment as the book cites relevant
                    sources in the history of medicine. As a local historian and genealogist King excels; her work draws
                    on a variety of sources including the U.S. Census, city directories and newspapers, government
                    records, county histories, and obituaries. King's care shines through her chosen subject,
                    whether one considers that subject to be the history of psychiatry or the life of Anna Agnew. But it
                    raises vexing questions of how to evoke the voices of historical agents and the ethics of
                    authorship. Is King justified in appropriating Agnew's writing as a vehicle to express her
                    own views? The use of extensive quotations gives the flavor of Agnew's book but neglects
                    its organizational framework. The author makes little attempt to analyze the book as a literary
                    creation, an example of a personal narrative in a long–standing tradition of writing
                    about illness. And King shies away from examining her own role as historical amanuensis.
            In 1894, less than a decade after being released from the Indiana hospital, Agnew was recommitted,
                    this time at the Western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Hospital for the Insane, near 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , where she spent the rest of her life. She died at the hospital in 1917, having spent a
                    total of thirty years in the care of state asylums. King succeeds in conveying progress in the
                    treatment of the mentally ill since Agnew's time, in Indiana and elsewhere, and, in the
                    process, makes us care about Anna.
            JAMES H. CAPSHEW serves as director of graduate studies in
                    the department of History and Philosophy of Science at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . His current work includes a biographical study of Herman B Wells.
         
         
            
               Flame of Faith, Lamp of Learning A History of 
                            Valparaiso
                        
                University By Richard Baepler (
                        St. Louis
                    : Concordia Publishing House, 2001. Pp. 447. Illustrations, appendices, notes on
                    sources, reference bibliography, indexes. $29.95.)
            Most colleges have a person like Richard Baepler who has occupied so many important positions over
                    such a long time that he not only recollects much of the history of the college, he actually
                    embodies that history. It is  rarer, however, for a college to
                    have such a person who can also synthesize so many materials and then write so comprehensively and
                    competently about them.
            In this handsome volume, which includes a section of photos, Baepler covers the whole sweep of 
                        Valparaiso
                    's history, from its beginning as the Methodist–founded 
                        Valparaiso
                     Male and Female College in 1859 to today's 
                        Valparaiso
                     University—a "Christian University in the Lutheran
                    Tradition." In between, the school's history has been marked by at least two
                    significant quirks and one magnificent moment. Among those quirks was the college's second
                    incarnation—progressively named Northern Indiana Normal School, 
                        Valparaiso
                     College, and then 
                        Valparaiso
                     University— which was engineered by two educational entrepreneurs and which
                    offered a low–cost practical education. This combination earned 
                        Valparaiso
                     the reputation far and wide as the "Poor Man's 
                        Harvard
                    " and increased its enrollment enough to make it the second largest American
                    university in the early 1900s. Alumni of this period include Senator George Norris of 
                        Nebraska
                    , journalist 
                        Lowell
                     Thomas, and populist agitator Gerald L. K. Smith.
            A second major quirk occurred after the demise of the "Poor Man's 
                        Harvard
                    " in the mid–1920s, when the then–flourishing Ku Klux
                    Klan almost bought the university. However, a group of mainly lay 
                        Missouri
                     Synod Lutherans edged them out, organized the Lutheran University Association, and
                    founded the new 
                        Valparaiso
                     University against the wishes of their own church, which would not have control of the
                    new Lutheran institution. The organizers wanted a Lutheran university to prepare the laity for their
                    callings in the world.
            Hard times in the 1930s precipitated the university's magnificent moment, as newly recruited
                    President Otto Paul Kretzmann, fondly known as "O. P," gave 
                        Valparaiso
                     a new beginning on the eve of World War II. This charismatic man, who as president
                    animated the life of 
                        Valparaiso
                     for thirty years, offered a stunning lecture entitled "The Destiny of a
                    Christian University," which provided the vision that shaped 
                        Valparaiso
                     for many years. He directed the university toward a lively, creative synthesis of faith
                    and learning which continues to the present day.
            Baepler also traces the development of the university through the 1990s under a succession of
                    presidents. Through many ups and some downs 
                        Valparaiso
                     has kept its commitment to a Lutheran version of Christian humanism—this
                    despite the powerful secularizing trends that have swept many church–related colleges, a
                    constant struggle for adequate resources, and an ambivalent relationship to its sponsor, the
                    Lutheran Church—
                        Missouri
                     Synod. Baepler chronicles a fine story of a fine institution of Christian higher
                    learning. Flame of Faith, Lamp of Learning is important reading for those who are
                    interested in the challenge and promise of Christian higher education.
            
            ROBERT BENNE is director of the 
                        Roanoke
                     College Center for Religion and Society, 
                  Salem, Virginia
               , and 
                        Jordan
                    –Trexler Professor of Religion emeritus. As the senior fellow in the Lilly
                    Fellows Program at 
                        Valparaiso
                     University, Benne wrote Quality with Soul: How Six Premier Colleges and
                        Universities Keep Faith with Their Religious Traditions (2001).
         
         
            
               Stories of 
                            Chicago
                        
                By George Ade. Edited with an introduction by Franklin J. Meine (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Illustrations, notes. Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound,
                    $15.95.)
            
               Stories of 
                            Chicago
                        
                is a recently republished collection of short stories written by Hoosier
                    George Ade during the seven years (1893–1900) when he crafted the daily newspaper column
                    "Stories of the Streets and of the Town" for the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Record, the morning edition of the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Daily News. Beginning in 1894, the paper's publisher, Herbert S.
                    Stone, republished a number of the stories in independent volumes. Both the newspaper column and
                    many of the subsequent books were illustrated by John T. McCutcheon, Ade's fraternity
                    brother from his Purdue days and his 
                        Chicago
                     apartment–mate.
            A slightly rambling introduction by Franklin J. Meine, written in 1941, opens the book well by
                    placing Ade and his stories squarely in the pantheon of noteworthy and representative
                    nineteenth–century art. The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press chose rightly in reprinting these stories for those interested in studying the
                    urban history of this period. A new introduction, however, would better serve the text by reminding
                    the reader of the continued importance of Ade's unique vision.
            These deceptively simple stories resemble those of Mark Twain for their ability to strike at the
                    heart of American personality types. In clear and simple language, the stories depict a wide variety
                    of Chicagoans, including the office worker, the boarding house dweller, the Chinese laundry man, the
                    junkman, and the street peddler. While the stories are aimed at the general newspaper consumer of
                    the 1890s, Ade's keen ability to see the city allows his work to transcend the usual limits
                    of newspaper writing and break down barriers between "highbrow" and
                    "lowbrow." More than one hundred years later, his characters still resonate. In
                    what may be termed a very midwestern style, and a particularly Hoosier type of straightforward
                    satire, Ade brings the reader into the center of downtown 
                        Chicago
                     to see the city as only an alert newcomer could—with open, enthusiastic
                    eyes.
            Ade chronicles many long–gone 
                        Chicago
                     landmarks and practices of interest to urban historians today. Stories recall the
                    heyday of the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     canal—the waterway  which served as a
                    source of 
                        Chicago
                    's early economic power—as well as the produce market at Haymarket
                    Square, and the Green Tree Inn, the oldest building in 
                        Chicago
                     in the 1890s. Ade captures 
                        Chicago
                    's quick growth in the tale "After the Sky–Scrapers,
                    What?" Immediately after construction workers had completed a building, it seemed, the
                    structure failed to live up to modern standards and was taken down again. Summarizing this
                    phenomenon and, ultimately, the heart of the 
                        Chicago
                     personality, Ade writes, "
                        Chicago
                     need not complain because the critics are not satisfied with this town. The town is
                    never satisfied with itself (p. 104).
            From a twenty–first–century perspective, some of Ade's stories,
                    because they explore the typicality of certain characters and use vernacular language and humor,
                    read as racist or unacceptably close. No author could pen such composites today and not face a call
                    onto the carpet. Ade's often–used black character "Pink
                    Marsh," "Aunt Mary" the African American woman who runs a
                    "plantation–style" restaurant, and his Chinese laundry worker may make
                    modern readers bristle. In his time, however, Ade's images no doubt brought white newspaper
                    readers into unknown territories of 
                        Chicago
                    , and increased their sympathy for a broad class of residents in the highly segregated
                    city.
            Because the stories exploit contemporary sentiments, they open a unique window into
                    turn–of–the–century 
                        Chicago
                    . For example, the closing story of the collection, "Effie Whittlesy,"
                    is a story about hiring a new housekeeper, but ultimately offers a strong commentary on American
                    class structure. Much to Mrs. Wallace's dismay, it turns out that the new maid, Effie,
                    hails from the same home town as Mr. Wallace, making her a peer of the household head rather than a
                    quiet helpmate. Thinking quickly, Mr. Wallace bribes Effie with a paid vacation and promise of
                    another placement upon her return, thereby allowing Mrs. Wallace to resume her rightful spot as
                    family matriarch without the challenge of having to feign friendship with her servant. Though
                    seemingly light on the surface, Ade's stories remain an invaluable source for studying
                    urban social history.
            LISA KRISSOFF BOEHM, a Ph.D. in
                    American history from Indiana University, teaches in the department of Urban Studies at 
                        Worcester
                     State College in 
                  Worcester, Massachusetts
               . She is the author of Popular Culture and the Enduring Myth of 
                            Chicago
                        , 1871–1968 (2004) and "Making a Way Out of No
                        Way": African American Domestic Workers in the Industrial North,
                    1940–1960 (forthcoming).
         
         
         
            
               One Vast Winter Count The Native American West before Lewis and Clark By Colin
                    G. Calloway (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xvii, 631. Illustrations, maps, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
            North America was an ancient human habitat millennia before it became the New World, but few of us
                    have even the vaguest notion of its previous occupants. A pueblo here, a burial mound there, a
                    pictograph, a Folsom missile point or pottery shard, and a few haunting names like Anasazi and
                    Etowah are faint vestiges of the long, panoramic saga of pre–Columbian life.
            In an ambitious new work, historian Colin Calloway makes that panorama of peoples vivid. One Vast Winter Count is part of a six–volume series aiming at fresh
                    perspectives on the mythic Winning of the West. The book relates many of the darker aspects of
                    westward expansion: the catastrophic epidemics, enslavement and subjugation of the native peoples,
                    broken treaties, and the missionaries' mockery of tribal spirituality and their deliberate
                    obversion of native gender roles.
            Calloway, chairman of Native American Studies at Dartmouth College, is a prodigious researcher and an
                    engaging writer. He is also a wide–angle viewer, distilling and synthesizing every sort
                    of data, from the records of priests among the conquistadors, to native oral histories, to the
                    labors of specialized scholars and historians both old and recent.
            The author begins with the Stone Age and closes at the beginning of the nineteenth century (hence his
                    subtitle
            "The Native American West before Lewis and Clark"). He covers the migrations of
                    hunter–gatherers, their development of agriculture and their evolution into great
                    civilizations with cities, irrigation systems, celestial observatories, and even ballgame arenas,
                    then discusses the upheavals and decimations brought by the Europeans.
            Calloway's accounts of the devastating conquistador expeditions are chilling and thorough.
                    He believes that Hernando DeSoto's four–year rampage through the Southeast
                    (1539–1543) reverberated far beyond its initial damage and precipitated the collapse of
                    all the cultures in that entire region. He acknowledges the Spaniards' notorious lust for
                    gold and their missionary zeal, then convincingly explains their penchant for brutality: having
                    overthrown Moorish rule the same year as 
                        Columbus
                    's arrival in America, Spanish adventurers were afire with a triumphant
                    willingness to slaughter infidels. "Oh, what a vast heathendom!" exclaimed one
                    padre cited in the book's prologue (p. 1).
            As the Spaniards exploited the people of the great Southwestern tribes, enslaving many to labor in
                    silver mines and mutilating the disobedient, something else they had brought was creating an
                    unplanned transformation in Indian life elsewhere: the horse.
            
            The Indian on horseback is such a stereotypical icon that it is jolting to remember that all American
                    Indians were pedestrians until Spanish horses began dispersing throughout the Great Plains. The
                    heyday of the mounted warrior lasted little more than a century, but this remains the most popular
                    image left after millennia of Indian life.
            With the same insight and thoroughness, Calloway narrates the other upheavals ofnative culture: by
                    French fur traders and priests, by land–hungry English colonists, and by both
                    nations' wars for control over the vast lands and resources of the continent. His account
                    of the eighteenth–century invasion of the Ohio River watershed is
                    the very essence of Indiana history.
            Even the remote North Pacific Coast was affected by the international struggle for dominance of the
                    eighteenth–century "global economy," with 
                  England, Spain
               , Russia, and the 
                        United States
                     competing for sea otter pelts, territorial control, and the fabled Northwest Passage.
                    The Americans prevailed, to the extent that five years before Lewis and Clark reached the Northwest
                    Coast overland, it was already, in the words of historian Frederick Howay, a "trade suburb
                    of 
                        Boston
                    ."
            Trade was the conduit for the three great imported scourges: disease, liquor, and firearms. Calloway
                    does not venture a total count of those wiped out by the smallpox epidemics but cites specific
                    tribal losses totaling half or more. "Microbes, not men, determined the
                    continent's history," said historian Georges Sioui. Though epidemics are in the
                    past, the pathos and the human toll of liquor among Indians remain today. The proliferation of
                    firearms, evident in every part of the continent and no doubt rued by George Custer at Little Big
                    Horn, presaged one of the world's biggest problems today, the arms trade.
            The winter count of Calloway's title refers to the Plains Indians' perennial
                    picture–writing on buffalo hides, which served as memory prompters for their oral
                    histories. This excellent, comprehensive tome makes it apparent that as early as the time of the
                    Lewis and Clark expedition, when the 
                        United States
                     as a nation was less than thirty years old, every one of the five hundred Native
                    American nations was already dead or endangered.
            JAMES ALEXANDER THOM is an
                    Indiana–born novelist, historian, and former Indiana University lecturer in
                journalism.
         
         
            
               Benjamin Franklin By Edmund S. Morgan (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 339. Illustrations appendix, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $28.00; paperbound, $16.00]
            The Thames near Chelsea, 
                        London
                    , 1725. An athletic young man plunges into the river's broad deep waters and
                    swims more than two miles downstream  to Blackfriars. This is
                    the image Edmund Morgan wants us to hold of Benjamin Franklin, in place of the later portraits we
                    know so well when trimness and vigor had lapsed into plump middle age. It is an image that captures
                    Morgan's generous concern for 
                        Franklin
                    's personal appeal: the nimble agility (which remained in mind if not in body
                    to the end of his long life), the independence of mind and spirit (swimming was frowned upon as bad
                    for health), the implacable endurance (he was fond of staying in the water for two or three hours),
                    and the intent sociability (as he swam he entertained friends on a boat trip with "many
                    Feats of Activity" [p. 3]). It is an image that also reminds us of the profoundly
                    international quality of this most cosmopolitan of founding fathers. In 1725, 
                        Franklin
                     was a young colonist on a brief visit from the North American mainland. After entering
                    public life in his early forties, 
                        Franklin
                     would spend more than a third of his career abroad, initially in 
                        England
                     and later in 
                        France
                    .
            In that public life, 
                        Franklin
                     was first a Pennsylvanian. He was instrumental in setting up a series of local
                    institutions and schemes that would help Philadelphians help themselves. The list is impressive: a
                    hospital, a debating club known as the Junto, a library, an academy, a means of
                    fire–fighting. He fought for the colony's greater independence from the Penn
                    family. 
                        Franklin
                     was, second, a British American. As early as 1754, he had seen the need for the
                    colonies to act collectively within the Empire. While in 
                        London
                    , he sought to reform the union of 
                        England
                     and the colonies on the basis of equality. Third, 
                        Franklin
                     was an American. Convinced of the folly of British governmental attitudes to the
                    colonies, and unlike his stubborn son William, royal governor of 
                  New Jersey, Franklin
                was
                    one of the earliest statesmen to commit fully to American independence in 1775. As the 
                        United States
                     emissary in 
                        Paris
                    , he served national interests by shoring up the alliance and seeking loans to continue
                    the war. This was in sharp contrast to some of the other Americans in
                    town—ill–informed, conceited, or obstreperous men like John Adams and the
                    young John Laurens —who did more to undermine 
                        Franklin
                    's achievements than to serve their new country. In his few final years in
                            
                  Philadelphia, Franklin
               's presence was required in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Assembly, in the American Philosophical Society (an offshoot of the Junto), and in the
                    Constitutional Convention of 1787.
            Biographers tend to be sympathetic to their subjects and, even more than most, this is a book told
                    thoroughly from the subject's point of view. (Another recent example is David
                    McCullough's admiring portrait of John Adams, a very different Adams than the one portrayed
                    here.) It is based on the copious and carefully edited 
                        Franklin
                     papers which are soon to be published in electronic form. Morgan's aim is to
                    give us "a letter of introduction to a man worth knowing" (p. xi). The result is
                    sanguine and elegiac: here is a man who served his publics—
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the British  mainland colonies, and the 
                        United States
                    —with self–knowledge, intelligence, and pragmatism. Perhaps most
                    remarkably, Morgan implies, he did so without ever, quite, seeking after power.
            SARAH KNOTT, assistant professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is at work on a history of sensibility in revolutionary America.
         
         
            
               The Invention of Party Politics Federalism, Popular Sovereignty, and Constitutional
                        Development in Jacksonian 
                            Illinois
                        
                By Gerald Leonard (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2002. Pp. x, 328. Notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            Using 
                        Illinois
                     as a case study, Gerald Leonard argues that constitutional
                    concerns—specifically federalism and the sovereignty of the American
                    people—spurred the development of political parties in the 1820s and 1830s. Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren and other like–minded men promoted the idea of a permanent
                    "constitutional" party as "the embodiment of the undivided
                    democracy" (p. 5). Although rooted in an Anglo–American antiparty tradition, the
                    "partyists"' goal, writes Leonard, was "genuinely
                    revolutionary": "to establish for the Democratic party, and only the Democratic
                    party, a kind of lawmaking authority at least as important as that of any branch of
                    government" (p. 19). For both antipartyists and "
                        Van
                     Burenite" advocates of party, the competition that developed between two
                    national political parties by 1840 was an unintended and undesirable consequence of party
                    development.
            If, in the first several decades of the republic, political parties were justified only so long as a
                    dangerous opposition existed, the events of the "Era of Good Feelings" and the
                    1820s convinced 
                        Van
                     Buren otherwise. For 
                        Van
                     Buren, men like Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     would always seek to unify an anti–democratic, monied elite and consolidate
                    power at the national level. The collapse of the Federalist party had lulled citizens into thinking
                    that party strife was over, but events like the Adams–
                        Clay
                     "corrupt bargain" in the presidential election of 1824 prompted 
                        Van
                     Buren and others to organize the democratic majority against an
                    "aristocratic" minority. Since the people were sovereign and the states were
                    "naturally democratic polities," then the "written Constitution was a
                    carefully limited grant of power by the democracy to a potentially aristocratic engine" (p.
                    189). 
                        Van
                     Buren's disciplined party would ensure that legislation, elections, and
                    constitutional interpretation would all be the expression of the people's will.
            
            Leonard follows the implementation of these ideas in 
                        Illinois
                     through the 1820s and 1830s. As historians have long observed, political parties were
                    slow in coming to 
                        Illinois
                    . Advocates of party organization, such as Elias 
                        Kent
                     Kane and William Kinney, made little headway in the late 1820s and early 1830s. Where
                    political independence was admired and self–nomination usual, many citizens feared that
                    party elites would use nominating conventions to wrest political power from the people. National
                    party direction, too, threatened to undermine the political independence of 
                        Illinois
                    ' representatives. As a result, party organization was piecemeal. By
                    1835–1836, party advocates argued that the popular will was best expressed through a more
                    comprehensive organization linking local and national conventions, though such ideas still met with
                    opposition. By the late 1830s, economic issues informed constitutional arguments. The Democratic and
                    Whig parties also gained greater coherence, the result of a "reluctant evolution of
                    political practices that activists only dared justify on pragmatic grounds" (p. 174). Demo
                    crats continued to argue that their party represented "the majority of the
                    people," while Whigs asserted that they defended "individual political
                    judgment" (p. 174).
            Leonard's study of the debates over the party advocates' constitutional rationale
                    for political organization has yielded interesting results. The political men who struggled with
                    their doubts about the appropriate role of parties in a republic viewed them as more than electoral
                    machines; their goal was a right understanding of the Constitution, not a two–party
                    system. In questioning "the idea of a party system," Leonard has moved away from
                    the scholarly interest of the past several decades in party affiliation based on ethnocultural and
                    religious background, or on reaction to the growth of a market economy, and toward an understanding
                    of why Americans accepted mass parties as the solution to their political concerns.
            MATTHEW N. VOSMEIER, assistant professor of history at 
                        Hanover
                     College, 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, teaches early American history and is associate director of the Center for
                    Free Inquiry.
         
         
            
               The Lincoln Memorial and American Life
                    By Christopher A. Thomas (
                        Princeton
                    , N J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 2000. Pp. xxxii, 213. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)
            One of the great icons dominating the nation's capital, the Lincoln Memorial assumes an aura
                    of timelessness and inevitability. Yet as Christopher Thomas asserts in his multilayered study, The Lincoln Memorial and American Life, nothing could be further from the truth.
                    Reversing the  process suggested on the cover— which
                    shows the famous Daniel 
                        Chester
                     French statue of Lincoln in process of completion, with an arm and the head still to be
                    joined to the body—Thomas deconstructs this seemingly impenetrable monument. In the
                    process, he reveals both the physical and the ideological underpinnings of the final product. If
                    such an approach reveals imperfections in a hallowed structure, Thomas argues, it can nonetheless
                    prove "liberating and socially healing" (p. xxii).
            Nothing about the memorial, in fact, was inevitable—not its placement, not its form, and
                    certainly not its design. Conceived initially by postwar Radical Republicans as a monument to Union
                    victory and the abolition of slavery, the statue commissioned in 1867 would have placed Lincoln at
                    the apex of a tower made up of grateful freedmen as well as abolitionists, Union generals, and other
                    supporters. By the time Congress finally authorized a memorial in the early twentieth century, an
                    entirely different set of values dictated the project. Anticipating the trajectory described by
                    David Blights important study, Race and Reunion (2001), Thomas describes how North
                    and South reconciled around a version of history that omitted the contentious issue of slavery. In
                    the hands of the genteel twentieth–century Republicans who supported the
                    memorial's proposed site at the eastern terminus of the McMillan Commission's 1902
                    plan for 
                        Washington
                    's core, Lincoln represented union, not victory. Every ef fort should be made,
                    argued commission member and architect Charles McKim, to make the man transcend his worldly origins.
            It took another decade to realize the McMillan Commission's hopes for the memorial, and the
                    outcome was anything but certain. Thomas details the memorial's triumph, first, over a
                    concerted effort to commemorate Lincoln through construction of a memorial highway to 
                        Gettysburg
                    , and then, over considerable political as well as construction obstacles—the
                    latter possibly described in greater detail than the general reader will appreciate. Although the
                    larger theme of the monument's relationship to shifting social and political values is
                    sometimes lost in favor of architectural and building detail, Thomas has done a marvelous job of
                    compiling both a written and visual record of this important commemorative process. His discussion
                    of the contest between architects Henry Bacon and his ultimately unsuccessful rival John Russell
                    Pope, for instance, goes beyond anything yet written on the subject.
            Thomas is well versed in the literature of collective memory, and he makes his own contribution by
                    showing how memorials shaped to evade divisive issues, such as slavery, can subsequently be reshaped
                    under the influence of popular sentiment. Where the press covering the memorial's
                    dedication in 1920 failed to report either the critical remarks of the one African American speaker
                    or his relegation to a segregated seating area, that changed with the 1963 March on 
                    
                        Washington, D.C.
                     Since then, Thomas argues, the memorial has been inescapably associated with the cause
                    of inclusion; through that association, past imperfections in civic culture are remembered when they
                    once were forgotten.
            To the modern viewer, 
                        Washington
                     appears written in stone, its monuments to great leaders and events standing as
                    apparently immutable testimony to triumphs of national will. Thomas's book reminds readers
                    that our history is more complicated. Behind every commemoration lies a complex and often contested
                    pathway to completion. Thomas has made us think not just about a singular structure, but about the
                    processes that produce public memorials; in so doing, he has helped us appreciate how collective
                    memory is shaped.
            HOWARD GILLETTE, JR., is professor of history and director
                    of the Mid–Atlantic Regional Center for the Humanities at Rutgers
                    University–Camden, and author of Between Justice and Beauty: Race, Planning,
                        and the Failure of Urban Policy in 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        
                (1995).
         
         
            
               The Record–Setting Trips By Auto from Coast to Coast,
                    1909–1916 By Curt McConnell (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. ix, 326. Illustrations, tables, appendix, notes, index.
                    $60.00.)
            In this work, automobile historian Curt McConnell explores what he calls the "the
                    automobile's age of acceptance" by tracing a series of eight pioneering
                    coast–to–coast journeys that took place between 1908 and World War I (p. 3).
            Each of the trips chronicled had a specific purpose. The thirty–one–day journey
                    undertaken in 1908 by seasoned racing driver Frank X. Zerbis, Private Malcolm E. Parrott, and
                    Lieutenant B. B. Rosenthal had the ostensible goal of carrying a military dispatch from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        San Francisco
                     to demonstrate the potential strategic importance of the automobile to the army. A 1910
                    trip between the same two cities in an REO automobile was undertaken both to set a transcontinental
                    speed record (ten days) and to boost REO's sales. The objective of a 1911 caravan of
                    autoists "whose combined net worth was estimated at 100 million" (p. 70) was to be
                    the first group of amateur drivers to motor literally from ocean to ocean. They began by edging
                    their fleet of Premier autos into the waves at Atlantic City, then reversed course across the
                    continent while making many publicity stops along the way—including one in
                    Premier's home city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    —before finally splashing their vehicles 
                    into the Pacific at 
                  Venice, California
               , in front of hundreds of spectators some
                    forty–five days later.
            McConnell writes, as well, of the first organized auto cruise in 1911, available to any member of the
                    public willing to shell out $875; and of a 1916 record–breaking trip from 
                        New York
                     to San Diego (in a grueling eleven days) by a single driver, sponsored by 
                        Indianapolis
                    –based Stutz Motor Car Company. After the trip, Stutz used the car to support
                    advertising claims of vehicle durability— the first automaker to do so. The final journey
                    presented is a 1916 "double trip," from 
                        San Francisco
                     to 
                        New York
                     and back again in a Hudson, accomplished in just ten
                    days—fifty–three days less than the first one–way transcontinental
                    auto trip, undertaken in 1903. World War I finally ended what the author regards as "the
                    golden age of record–setting coast–to–coast auto trips"
                    (p. 274).
            McConnell's stated purpose for writing the book was also to set a record of
                    sorts—to be the first researcher to mine a "rich vein of automotive
                    history" overlooked for so long due to the "enormous effort necessary to research
                    a single coast to coast trip, much less several" (p. 3). The result is an impressive
                    assemblage of details of the flat tires, muddy roads, breakdowns, adventures, and local promotional
                    events encountered on these pioneering odysseys.
            While reinforced by a number of fascinating, mostly
                    made–for–public–ity photos—some of which are
                    unfortunately muddily reproduced—the text hits a few bumps along the way. The author, not
                    infrequently, detours into paragraphs disputing unimportant minutiae, such as the count of people in
                    a group photo which Motor Age and the New York Times had listed
                    as forty and the author claims to be thirty nine. He also fails to place any of the trips in a
                    broader spatial, cultural, or social context. The book is an interesting read, however, and, as
                    stated in the concluding paragraph, does successfully excite "our fascination with the
                    pioneering trips made in the early twentieth century, when the automobile was new and the trails it
                    tamed were primitive and steeped in adventure" (p. 280).
            Such fascination lies close to the heart of America's modern automobile addiction; this book
                    may therefore prove useful to future historians who ponder why the
                    twenty–first–century citizens of some industrialized nations, such as 
                        Japan
                    , rocketed along in energy–efficient,
                    jet–rotation–speed trains while Americans remained wedded to individual
                    automobile ownership with its attendant excesses of oil consumption, suburban sprawl, and loss of
                    human life.
            CHESTER LIEBS is adjunct professor in the graduate
                    certificate program in historic preservation and regionalism at the University of 
                        New Mexico
                    , Albuquerque, and professor emeritus of history and the founding director of the
                    historic preservation graduate program at the University of 
                        Vermont
                    . He is the author of Main Street to Miracle Mile: American Roadside
                        Architecture (1985).
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
