
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 103, Issue 2, pages 125-230. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:103+issue:2+year:2007&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                The Local Origins of a New Deal Housing Project The Case of Lockefield Gardens in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                ROBERT G. BARROWS
                The headline in the Indianapolis Times in early September 1933 came as a surprise
                    to most residents of the Hoosier capital: "$4,460,000 Loan Will Help City to Banish
                    Slums." The accompanying story, datelined 
                        Washington,
                        D.C.
                     , explained that tentative approval had been given for federal funds to
                    "finance elimination of slums and construction of low-cost housing units in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Negro section." The proposed program, noted the reporter, had been
                    "put through without publicity" by a planning committee of the Indianapolis
                    Chamber of Commerce, "the representatives of which manipulated secretly to obtain the
                    approval of the federal works board." The preliminary negotiations had been "so
                    under cover" that even Democratic Congressman Louis Ludlow, who represented 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had learned of the scheme only the day before.1
                The Times article marked the first open discussion of a public housing project that
                    would eventually become known as Lockefield 
                        Robert G. Barrows is associate professor and chair in the Department of History at Indiana
                            University-Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            . He co-edited The Encyclopedia of Indianapolis (1994) and
                            authored Albion Fellows Bacon: 
                                    Indiana's
                                 Municipal Housekeeper (2000).
                        1Indianapolis Times, September 8, 1933.
                    
                     Garden Apartments, more commonly referred to simply as
                    Lockefield Gardens. The enterprise remains relatively well-known today because of its long-term
                    importance, both practically and symbolically, to the African American community of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and also because of a historic preservation controversy that swirled around it in the
                    late 1970s and early 1980s. (Ultimately, about two-thirds of the original project was razed; the
                    remaining buildings were rehabilitated and incorporated into a new apartment complex.) Lockefield is
                    invariably-and accurately-described as a federal project constructed under the auspices of the New
                    Deal's Public Works Administration (PWA). What such a description omits, however, is
                    recognition that Lockefield's origins involved considerable local initiative. An ad hoc
                    committee of the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce had in fact begun examining links between poor
                    housing conditions and the provision of social services to city residents several months before the
                    PWAs Housing Division even existed. Moreover, when the PWA did become involved its initial role was
                    conceived as merely loaning money for the venture, not building the project itself. So although
                    Lockefield Gardens is well known, the story of its local beginnings remains incomplete.
                Housing, if not necessarily housing reform, constituted very much a front-burner issue in the early
                    1930s. Residential construction had peaked in the mid-1920s, several years before the stock market
                    crash in 1929. Thereafter housing starts declined year after year. Construction of residential
                    property dropped by 95 percent between 1928 and 1933, at the same time that non-farm foreclosures
                    skyrocketed. Little wonder that one historian has referred to a "crisis in residential real
                    estate" during these years. Herbert Hoover's President's Conference on
                    Home Building and Home Ownership in December 1931 brought together housing experts from around the
                    nation to respond to this dire situation. The conference and the recommendations emanating from it
                    produced few immediate results. They did, however, embody the beginning of a change in attitudes
                    regarding the role of government in housing. One recommendation suggested that government should
                    begin to aid private efforts to house low-income families-an idea that, at least in the 
                        United States
                    , had generally been derided as unacceptably radical.2
                
                    2Gail Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                America
                            : Policy Struggles in the New Deal Era (
                            Chicago
                        , 1996), 86; Kenneth T. Jackson, Crabgrass Frontier: The
                            Suburbanization of the 
                                United States
                             (
                            New York
                        , 1985), 193-94.
                
                
                The need to upgrade African American dwellings seemed particularly acute. The report prepared by the
                    conference's Committee on Negro Housing detailed the substandard living conditions endured
                    by a large percentage of the nation's black citizens. Hoover's secretary of
                    commerce, Robert P. Lamont, wrote in the foreword to this volume that the realities of housing in
                    African American neighborhoods "emphasize the present shortcomings of our individualistic
                    theory of housing, and the failure which grows out of expecting each person in our highly complex
                    industrial civilization to provide his own housing as best he may." Historian Gail Radford
                    observes that "such sentiments were startling enough coming from a cabinet-level official
                    in a Republican administration, but they were all the more surprising given the particularly
                    conservative assumptions with which Lamont started." Radford concludes that this and
                    similarly "heretical statements" by administration officials "signaled
                    the degree to which confidence in the private market in real estate had deteriorated by
                        1931."3
                In the spring of 1932, as the Depression deepened, Hoover and his advisors decided that additional
                    federal action was needed to combat the crisis. In mid-May he asked Congress to expand the role of
                    the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), an agency that had been created at his request the
                    previous year and that functioned principally to provide credit to major financial institutions such
                    as banks and insurance companies. The proposed expansion of the RFC's activities became
                    part of the Emergency Relief and Construction Act of 1932. This complex piece of legislation passed
                    through several permutations (Hoover vetoed an initial version), but the bill finally passed in
                    mid-July and the president signed it a week later.
                The act (in Title II, Section 201) empowered the RFC to "make loans to corporations formed
                    wholly for the purpose of providing housing for families of low income, or for the reconstruction of
                    slum areas." Two provisos, however, severely limited the ability of interested parties to
                    take advantage of the law. First, such "corporations" had to be limited-dividend
                    entities regulated by state or municipal law; only one state (
                        New York
                    ) had appropriate enabling legislation in place at the time of the act's
                    passage. Second, the projects had to be "self-liquidating"-in 
                        3Robert P Lamont, "Foreword," Negro
                                Housing, eds. John M. Gries and James Ford (Publications of the
                                President's Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, Vol. 6; 
                                Washington,
                                D.C.
                            , 1932), vii-viii; Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 87-88.
                    
                     other words, they had to produce enough revenue to pay off the
                    RFC loan, plus 5V2 percent interest, within ten years. Taken together, these requirements proved
                    sufficiently onerous that only a single urban housing project (Knickerbocker Village in 
                        New York City
                    ) resulted from the work of the RFC's Self-Liquidating Division. Nevertheless
                    the expansion of the RFC's responsibilities in late 1932 and early 1933 did establish a
                    precedent for federal involvement in slum removal and public housing. Many communities, 
                        Indianapolis
                     among them, took note.4
                By March 1933, when the Franklin Roosevelt administration assumed control in 
                        Washington
                    , housing starts were stalled at one-tenth of their 1925 levels, unemployment stood at
                    about 25 percent nationally (much higher in some places), and foreclosures were increasing.
                    Moreover, the RFC's existing housing program was clearly a failure. "It is against
                    this background of catastrophe," writes Radford, "that we can begin to understand
                    how ... a program as previously off-limits as federal financing and even outright ownership of
                    low-rent housing could be created."5
                Title II of the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA), signed by the president in June 1933, called
                    for a "comprehensive program of public works." This program became one of the best
                    known of Roosevelt's so-called "alphabet agencies," the Public Works
                    Administration (PWA). The legislation granted the new agency power for, among other things,
                    "construction, reconstruction, alteration, or repair under public regulation or control of
                    low-cost housing and slum-clearance projects." To implement this section of the law
                    Interior Secretary Harold Ickes, who directed the PWA, created a Housing Division that began
                    operation in July. The agency's first director was 
                        New York
                     architect Robert Kohn, who had been involved in a short-lived effort to provide housing
                    for industrial workers during World War I. He was thus, as Radford notes, "one of the few
                    people in the country with any experience at running a government housing program."6
                
                    4James Stuart Olson, Herbert Hoover and the Reconstruction
                            Finance Corporation, 1931-1933 (Ames, Ia., 1977), 62-79; Radford, Modern
                            Housing for 
                                America
                            , 88, 92; Robert Moore Fisher, 20 Years of Public Housing:
                            Economic Aspects of the Federal Program (
                            New York
                        , 1959), 79-82; Gilbert A. Cam, "
                            United States
                         Government Activity in Low-Cost Housing, 1932-38," Journal of
                            Political Economy, 47 (June 1939), 357-59.
                    5Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                America
                            , 88.
                    6lIbid., 89-92; Cam, "
                            United States
                         Government Activity in Low-Cost Housing," 359; Olson, Herbert
                            Hoover and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, 88-89.
                
                
                The Housing Division inherited the RFC's "limited dividend" program and
                    attempted to make it more viable by liberalizing the provisions that had precluded most communities
                    from taking advantage of it. Interest rates were reduced to 4 percent, loans were made available for
                    up to 85 percent of the estimated costs of a project, and the repayment period was extended from ten
                    to thirty-five years. In response to these relaxed rules, applications began to pour in.7
                Precise details are lacking, but available evidence suggests that perhaps as early as fall 1932, and
                    certainly by spring 1933, some 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents were discussing housing conditions and what might be done to improve them in
                    the Hoosier capital. One such individual was Joe Rand Beckett, a local architect and attorney, who,
                    as his obituary put it years later, "pioneered in the building of modern housing for
                    low-income groups."8 As a member of the board of directors of the
                    Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, Beckett reported in mid-May 1933 to his colleagues "on
                    the progress to date of the Planning and Housing Committee," of which he was the chairman.
                    He explained the purpose of the committee (which had been created the previous month) and the intent
                    of the committee members to conduct a survey of the "congested and unhealthful
                    districts" of the city. That at least some Indianapolis leaders were watching developments
                    in 
                        Washington
                     with interest is clear from Beckett's conclusion that "when this
                    movement gets underway ... there will be a general rush by a great number of cities to get the money
                    that will likely be released by the R.EC. for slum clearance purposes."9
                A month later, and just a week after passage of the NIRA, 
                        Indianapolis
                     architect Merritt Harrison (whose firm ultimately won the contract to design Lockefield
                    Gardens) sent a letter to the newly created 
                        7Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 92. For a contemporary critique of the limited dividend program, see
                            Eugene H. Klaber, "Limited Dividend Corporations Under the National Housing
                            Act," Architectural Record, 77 (February 1935), 78-80.
                        8Beckett (1891-1969) graduated from Indianapoliss Manual High School
                            in 1910 and subsequently attended the University of Illinois and Indiana Law School. He also
                            represented Johnson and Marion Counties in the Indiana State Senate, 1929-1931. Indianapolis Star, July 29, 1969 (obituary); Justin E. Walsh et al., A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, Vol. 2, 1900-1984 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1984), 32.
                        9Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, Board of Directors minutes, May 18,
                            1933 (Chamber of Commerce, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), cited hereafter as Chamber of Commerce board minutes. Thanks go to Jeff
                            Barnett for facilitating my use of these records. Of the seven projects completed under the
                            limited dividend program only one replaced slums. Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 92-93.
                    
                     He began by referencing the legislation, specifically the
                    section dealing with low-cost housing and slum clearance projects and the fact that such projects
                    had to be "under public regulation or control." He then noted that the Indiana
                    General Assembly, in its spring 1933 session, had failed to approve enabling legislation for
                    "this class of work." Was there, Harrison wondered, a way that the
                    "public regulation" criterion could be met in the absence of an authorizing state
                    law? "I am seeking," he explained, "a way to proceed with an actual
                    project in this city that we have on the boards for low cost housing .... Is there any way that this
                    project can be financed under this federal legislation?" Harrison's claim that a
                    project was "on the boards" is ambiguous, but it seems doubtful that in June 1933
                    he was referring to actual architectural renderings. More likely, he simply wanted to convey to his
                    correspondent in 
                        Washington
                     that very serious discussions regarding publicly financed low-income housing were
                    underway in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and that his query was based on much more than casual curiosity.10
                On July 20 Beckett once again updated the directors of the Chamber of Commerce on the progress of
                    what was now being called the Community Plan Committee. Summarizing a study that the committee had
                    conducted with assistance from Indiana University's Bureau of Social Research, he
                    highlighted the disproportionate spending on social services "to those people living in a
                    small portion of our city." Although Beckett did not identify specific areas during his
                    remarks, the context clarifies his reference to districts that would have been loosely described as
                    slums. Beckett went on to observe that "there has been quite a little talk by the Federal
                    Government about stimulating housing" for purposes of economic recovery. At a recent
                    conference in 
                        Cleveland
                     attended by federal officials (from the PWA, presumably) and "representatives
                    from a large 
                        10Merritt Harrison to Federal Administrator of Public Works, June 20,
                            1933, folder H-1600, box 121, Project Files (1933-1937), Record Group 196 (Public Housing
                            Administration) (National Archives II, 
                                College Park
                            , 
                                Maryland
                            ); cited hereafter as PHA Files. The letter is written on the firm's
                            letterhead and provides no indication of whose project he cited. Harrison (1886-1973) moved
                            to 
                                Indianapolis
                             as a youth. He graduated from Manual High School in 1906 and the Cornell
                            University School of Architecture in 1911. He practiced in the Hoosier capital for sixty
                            years, eventually being dubbed the "Dean of 
                                Indiana
                             Architects." He and his partners designed many important buildings and
                            projects in the state, including Crispus Attucks High School, the Indiana School for the
                            Blind, and the State Fair Coliseum, in addition to Lockefield Gardens. Indianapolis News, July 26, 1973 (obituary); Connie J. Zeigler, "Harrison
                            and Turnock (Russ and Harrison)," in The Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , eds. David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1994), 662-63.
                    
                    
                    
                        Aerial view of a portion of the neighborhood replaced by Lockefield Gardens, 
                                 Indianapolis
                            , c. 1930 A 1933 study called the congested blocks northwest of downtown an
                            "economic drain" on the city. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society,
                            Bass Photo Company Collection
                     number of cities interested in movements of this sort," the Feds had made it
                    clear that groups applying for money had to be "responsible" and prepared to
                    assume loans "on a business basis" to be repaid in thirty-five years.
                    Beckett's committee was currently examining the finances and hoped to "educate the
                    people in Indianapolis on the housing problem.11
                That education commenced a few days later when the Indianapolis Star published an
                    article based on the Community Plan Committee's 
                        11Chamber of Commerce board minutes, July 20, 1933. The Bureau of
                            Social Research had been established by Indiana University in 1930 in connection with its
                            Training Course for Social Work in 
                                 Indianapolis
                            . The bureau undertook "projects of interest to welfare agencies in the
                            state." A university publication issued in the summer of 1933 identified one of the
                            bureau's current efforts as "assembling data on social problems for the
                            Community Plan Committee of the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce." Helen Cintilda
                            Rogers, Seventy Years of Social Work Education at Indiana University ([
                                 Indianapolis
                            ], [1981]), 38; "The Training Course for Social Work,
                            1933-34," Indiana University News-Letter, 21 (June 1933),
                        6.
                    
                     study. Fleshing out Beckett's report to the
                    chamber's board, the article noted that 26 percent of the money spent in 
                         Indianapolis
                     "for public services of a social character"-social welfare,
                    hospitalization, poor relief, juvenile delinquency, and the like-went to 10 percent of the
                    residents. "This disproportionate spending of money on such a small percentage of the
                    population," asserted the paper, "represents an economic drain upon all the people
                    of the city." Indeed, "if this ratio of expenditure were carried out in the entire
                    city it would mean that the city...would be faced with certain bankruptcy." Though Beckett
                    did not explicitly mention race, an accompanying map indicated that this 10 percent of the
                    population causing the greatest "economic drain" lived immediately northwest of
                    downtown in the heart of the city's largest African American district.12
                An article in the Times the following month continued the educational process but
                    shifted the focus to the deleterious effects of poor housing. The article's author, R.
                    Clyde White, was a professor of sociology at Indiana University and director of the Bureau of Social
                    Research. He also served as a member of the Chamber of Commerce's Community Plan Committee
                    and had been one of the principals involved in the committee's study. Using that study as a
                    jumping-off point for his newspaper article, he observed, with an environmental determinism
                    reminiscent of Progressive Era rhetoric, that unsightly surroundings "tend to complete the
                    break-down of morale." On a more practical level, "dampness, inadequate heating
                    facilities, and insanitary conditions endanger health," and the "contagious
                    diseases which break out most often in such areas are a threat to the entire city." The
                    obvious solution involved "demolition of acres of bad houses and the construction of
                    decent, sanitary houses for the working population of the city in the same place." It had
                    been done in numerous European cities during the previous twenty years, White argued, and could be
                    done in 
                         Indianapolis
                    , "provided the city unites to do it."13
                
                    12"10 Pct. of Public Drains Heaviest on City's
                        Taxes," Indianapolis Star, July 24, 1933 (p. 12 for the map). Several
                        subsequent articles, published during the next few days, highlighted particular aspects of the
                        problem, such as expenditures for health care.
                    13R. Clyde White, "Better Houses Called City's Crying
                        Need," Indianapolis Times, August 21, 1933. White earned graduate
                        degrees from Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University in 
                            New York City
                        . An expert in social statistics, he taught at Texas A&M before coming to
                        Indiana University in 1927 to head the Training Course for Social Work in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . He was named director of the Bureau of Social Research when it was created in
                        1930. White left
                
                
                As mentioned earlier, 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers broke the story in early September of an anticipated federal loan. The Times, in addition to identifying the Chamber of Commerce as the principal sponsor
                    of the enterprise and noting the secrecy of the preliminary negotiations, reported (optimistically,
                    as it turned out) that President Roosevelt was expected to give final approval within a few days.
                    The Indianapolis Recorder, the local African American paper, jumped on board
                    immediately, editorializing that the project "will register for this city a forward stride
                    that has for many years been an urgent need. . . . Colored club women and church workers should
                    interest themselves in the government's better housing proposition."14
                The Sunday edition of the Indianapolis Star reported on comments that the director
                    of the PWAs Housing Division, Robert Kohn, made while passing through the city. He advised that the
                    "allocation of funds reported in 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers [$4.46 million] is a tentative one," which would only become available
                    if some local entity raised equity amounting to 15 percent of the total anticipated cost of the
                    project (about $787,000). He also emphasized that the government money was a loan and that dividends
                    to the local organization were limited to 6 percent. Beckett was paraphrased as saying that
                    "plans for handling the local situation were in embryo and that no announcement could be
                    made concerning them just now."15 Within a few days, however, the press
                    reported that the Chamber of Commerce planned to organize the required limited-dividend corporation
                    that would raise the local funds, that it was prepared to erect 200 dwelling units (of different
                    types) in place of 750 "slum dwellings," and that the project had been
                    "planned solely for Negroes" and would "take place in the Negro section
                    in the northwest part of the city."16
                It is unclear precisely how or when or by whom the decision was made that the proposed project would
                    be "solely for Negroes." Ickes, a former president of the NAACP chapter in
                    Chicago, sought to reduce racial discrimination in the agencies he headed, and to ensure that PWA
                        
                        
                                Indiana
                             for the University of Chicago in 1936. Rogers, Seventy Years of
                                Social Work Education at 
                                    Indiana
                                 University, 35-39.
                        4Indianapolis Times, September 8, 1933; Indianapolis Recorder, September 9, 1933.
                        15Indianapolis Star, September 10, 1933.
                        16Indianapolis Star, September 13, 1933; Indianapolis Times, September 13, 1933.
                    
                     projects employed African Americans in numbers that reflected
                    their proportion of the workforce. The Housing Division, however, generally acquiesced in local
                    mores and most of its projects were constructed for either blacks or whites. The Recorder, when reporting the tentative federal approval to its readers,
                    confirmed that "the basis of the loan" was the "fact-finding survey
                    recently completed" for the chamber and "given widespread publicity in the daily
                    press of the city."17 As Radford observes, "the
                    agency's decision not to disrupt pre-existing racial patterns of neighborhoods . . . meant
                    building houses for African Americans in deteriorated sections of cities where they already
                    lived." Lockefield Gardens exemplified this national pattern.18
                Although the proposed project was now public knowledge, much of the activity related to it continued
                    to be carried on behind closed doors. Shortly after September 20, Kohn received a letter postmarked
                    Indianapolis and marked "Personal and Important." The letter, signed simply
                    "Henry," included a brief note on an attached document marked with the initials
                    "H.W," suggesting that its author was the well-known town planner Henry Wright.
                    Wright and Kohn had worked together on the federal housing program during the First World War, and
                    Wright served as a consultant on PWA housing during Kohn's tenure with the agency. The
                    letter writer advised the division director that notices were being sent out that day for a
                    "non-public meeting tomorrow afternoon" that would include about forty
                    "key business men of the banker, merchant and utility groups." These individuals,
                    it was hoped, would decide how to organize both a "Housing Company" (the
                    limited-dividend corporation) and a campaign to raise the required local equity. "This
                    notice," he continued, "carries the Mayor's name as one of the sponsors,
                    and I am told that he is solidly for the proposition." After discussing the local plans for
                    financing, Kohn's correspondent observed that he was "still 100% for this as the
                    best example of rehabilitation so far presented and as completely sound, provided only Mr. Beckett
                    delivers as promised the evidence that he has real civic and favorable political interest behind
                        it."19
                
                    17Indianapolis Recorder, September 16, 1933.
                    18Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                America
                            , 100-101, 104-105; Harvard Sitkoff, A New Deal for Blacks:
                            The Emergence of Civil Rights as a National Issue, Vol. 1, The Depression
                            Decade (
                            New York
                        , 1978), 66-68.
                    19Henry W[right?] to Robert Kohn, September 20, 1933, folder H-1600, box
                        121, PHA Files. A copy of the invitation to the "non-public" meeting is
                        attached to this document. Signed by
                
                
                Beckett went to work to provide those assurances. The following week he informed the
                    chamber's board of directors, as the minutes recorded, "that 
                        Indianapolis
                     is to raise $787,000 for carrying on this project and that it is to be raised in the
                    next few months." He also reported that Kohn "asked that we try to get the
                    citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to wholeheartedly support this movement." In response the board unanimously
                    passed a resolution endorsing the project because of the "great benefits, economically and
                    socially to be derived" from it, and offering "its cooperation as the
                    representative body of the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the completion of this program." A telegram quoting the resolution was
                    promptly dispatched by chamber president Louis Borinstein to Kohn in 
                        Washington
                    .20
                The project took several interesting twists and turns during the next few months. The closed-door,
                    invitation-only meeting of September 21 led to the creation of an entity variously known as the
                    Community Housing Committee or Community Housing Corporation. While technically distinct from the
                    Chamber of Commerce, it was clearly a spin-off from the Community Plan Committee on which Joe
                    Beckett had served, and the two groups shared some overlapping membership. The chairman of the
                    corporation, William H. Trimble, was a realtor and member of the Chamber of Commerce who performed,
                    as a biographical sketch put it, "notable work in the cause of welfare in the capital
                        city."21
                
                    Mayor Reginald Sullivan and Chamber of Commerce President Louis Borinstein, it explained that
                        the meeting was being called because "there are conditions in connection with this
                        [tentative federal] allotment which cannot be placed before the public at this time."
                        On Henry Wright see "Henry Wright," The Columbia Electronic
                            Encyclopedia, 6th ed. (2007), http://www.info- please.com/ce6/people/A0852791.html;
                        Richard Pommer, "The Architecture of Urban Housing in the 
                            United States
                         during the Early 1930s," Journal of the Society of
                            Architectural Historians, 37 (December 1978), 236, 262.
                    20Chamber of Commerce board minutes, September 28, 1933; Louis Borinstein
                        to Robert Kohn, September 28, 1933, folder H-1600, box 121, PHA Files. Borinstein (1881-1972)
                        was born in Indianapolis, graduated from Manual High School, and joined the scrap metal firm
                        founded by his father. He was, as a newspaper editorial put it soon after his death, "a
                        leader in the civic and business life of the community" for several decades. He was
                        president of the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce from 1931 to 1935, a member of the board of
                        directors of the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce for twenty-six years, and active with
                        numerous philanthropic endeavors. Indianapolis News, May 3 (obituary), May 8
                        (editorial), 1972.
                    21Trimble (1888-1977) was a native of 
                            Illinois
                         who had attended Augustana College in that state and then moved to 
                            Indiana
                        . He was president of the Trimble Realty Company. Indianapolis
                        Star, August 7, 1977 (obituary); John D. Barnhart and Donald E Carmony, 
                                Indiana
                            : From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth, 4 vols. (
                            New York
                        , 1954), 4:433-34.
                
                
                Trimble announced in late September that 
                        Indianapolis
                     contractors and laborers would receive preference for the clearance and construction
                    work-an obvious attempt to garner local support. He also revealed a tentative location for the
                    project: a 29-acre tract bounded by 10th and Torbett Streets on the south, 14th Street on the north,
                    Oregon Street on the east, and Indiana Avenue and Fall Creek on the west. This site was immediately
                    west of the all-black Crispus Attucks High School (currently Attucks Middle School) and somewhat
                    farther north than the eventual Lockefield Gardens location.22
                During the last quarter of 1933 the Community Housing Corporation worked behind the scenes to meet
                    the federal Housing Division's criteria, especially with regard to the local equity
                    requirement. Simultaneously, corporation members tried to generate support for and to blunt
                    criticism of the proposed project. The arguments in favor focused not only on the presumed
                    advantages of improved housing but also on the economic activity that would be a concomitant of the
                    work. Following an address in which Beckett claimed that the project would employ some 2,000 men for
                    at least one year, the Construction League of Indianapolis adopted a resolution supporting the
                    proposal. Later that fall the city's Central Labor Union and the Marion County Building
                    Trades Council sent telegrams to Secretary Ickes expressing their approbation. The
                        Recorder remained a consistent proponent. In October its editor highlighted the
                    project's twin goals: "to put more men back to work at living wages" and
                    to build "healthier homes, and more attractive surroundings for hundreds of deserving
                    families." Six weeks later the paper denounced the ongoing "squabble over whether
                    or not better dwellings should be errected [sic] in this city to replace the hundreds of unsuitable
                    houses in which thousands are forced to live," and declared that "the slum must
                    go, if 
                        Indianapolis
                     is to march alongside other progressive cities."23
                Not everyone agreed that the proposal represented the best approach. In September, just days after
                    the story broke, the Indianapolis Commercial opined that "exponents of
                    low tax rates" should be leery of the "mysterious loan." Regardless of
                    whether the loan was to be made to 
                        22Indianapolis Star, September 28, 1933; Indianapolis Times, September 29, 1933 (p. 1 for the article, p. 20 for
                            the map).
                        23Indianapolis Star, September 30, 1933; Indianapolis Times, December 7, 1933; Indianapolis
                            Recorder, October 21, December 9, 1933.
                    
                     the city or to a private corporation, "sooner or later
                    the taxpayers will stand part of the expense." The Commercial's
                    editor also questioned whether putting money into housing for African Americans would be a prudent
                    investment: "Persons who own rental property can judge for themselves just how sound a loan
                    would be at this time to improve housing conditions for negroes."24
                Two months later the Indianapolis Real Estate Board weighed in with a resolution expressing strong
                    opposition to the housing project. The realtors objected on several grounds, including the fact that
                    the proposal was a "multiple project" (i.e., principally apartments) that thus
                    "detracts from the proved design [intent] of Indianapolis citizens to own their own
                    homes." In addition, claimed the board, "housing of this type is unattractive to
                    the families for whom it is intended" (an assertion quickly refuted by African American
                    leaders) and "an increase in the total number of housing units in the city is inadvisable
                    until the existing vacancies have been further absorbed." The Indianapolis
                        News agreed, editorializing that "[s]urely it will be generally conceded that to
                    inflict standardized, government subsidized houses on a community priding itself in its home
                    building and home ownership is taking an undue liberty with the value and individuality of other
                    residence sections, and sounding a discordant note."25
                While the Recorder stood solidly behind the endeavor and reported that "a
                    casual poll of sentiment among the Negroes of the city indicated that they are overwhelmingly in
                    favor of the project," some black residents expressed concern. At a weekly meeting of the
                    Monday Luncheon Club-which included many of the city's most influential African American
                    residents, several of whom were also actively involved with the all-black Senate Avenue YMCA-there
                    was "such disagreement of those present that endorsement was withheld." The
                    principal issue of contention was "insistence by Negro leaders that a large number of the
                    laborers employed in the construction work be Negroes." In order to avoid "a
                    repetition of the Boulder Dam and other situations in which Negro labor has been excluded,"
                    club leaders called for contractual guarantees that a significant percentage of the workforce be
                    African 
                        24Indianapolis Commercial, September 11, 1933.
                        25Indianapolis News, November 11, 1933; Indianapolis Recorder, December 16, 1933; Indianapolis News,
                            November 13, 1933 (editorial).
                    
                    
                    
                        Agnes Street, Looking North from North Street, 1934 The western edge of
                            the Lockefield complex would extend to this block of homes lying between Indiana Avenue, on
                            the north, and North Street, on the South. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Bass
                            Photo Company Collection
                     Americans. Trimble and other members of the Community Housing Corporation explained that
                    this was "a matter not directly under their control" since they had "no
                    way ... of enforcing such [a] provision in agreements with contractors." They gave
                    "individual assurances," however, "that every precaution reasonably
                    necessary will be taken to insure the maximum employment of Negro labor." Eventually, the
                    Monday Luncheon Club accepted these assurances and joined other African American organizations in
                    endorsing the project.26
                Although they received little press coverage, some residents-on both sides of the color line-objected
                    to the fact that the proposed project was intended for black residents only. When reporting that the
                    Indiana Council of the National Emergency Advisory Council for Negroes had approved the plan, the
                        Recorder noted in passing the council's opinion that some opposition
                    came "from Negroes who have been 
                        26Indianapolis Recorder, September 30, October 7,
                            1933; Indianapolis Times, October 7, 1933.
                    
                    
                    
                        Homes slated for demolition on the site of Lockefield Gardens
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             civic leaders sought public support and federal financing to remove substandard
                            housing from the heart of the city. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Bass Photo
                            Company Collection
                     led unwittingly to believe an attempt is being made at wholesale segregation." In
                    a different vein, another Recorder article observed that "vehement
                    opposition to the expenditure of so large a sum for the benefit of the Negro population"
                    had led to a proposal to "rebuild a white as well as a colored slum area."27
                Although the idea that a portion of the federal loan should be used to rehabilitate a primarily white
                    residential area never came to pass, its mention in the newspaper was far more than a trial balloon.
                    The Times reported at the end of October that the Housing Division had decided its
                    loan should be used to construct dwellings in both black and white residential sections of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . An area on the near south side had been identified as the site for a "slums
                    clearance and housing enterprise for white persons . . . unless land values prove too
                    prohibitive." This was, 
                        27Indianapolis Recorder, December 16, 30,
                        1933.
                    
                     apparently, a decision made in Washington. A letter from the
                    Community Housing Corporation to Kohn in early November advised that: "Following the suggestions of your department we have selected an area for a housing unit
                    to be devoted to the tenancy of white people and have narrowed the scope of our negro housing
                    project accordingly." This document was, in fact, the transmittal letter for the
                    corporation's formal proposal, numbered 41W, for a white housing project. (A proposal for
                    the African American project, numbered 41N, was submitted simultaneously.) It is not clear whether
                    local complaints about dedicating all the funding to a blacks-only project might have influenced the
                    Housing Division's decision to pursue improvements in both white and Negro areas.28
                At the same time that a possible white project was first announced, the papers also reported a change
                    in the location of the black project. An inability to secure leases or options on some parcels of
                    land in the area originally targeted had led the planners to move the project several blocks south
                    to a site near the City Hospital. A map included in the Community Housing Corporation's
                    prospectus for Project Number 41N showed both the original and the revised boundaries-the latter
                    being Indiana Avenue on the north, North Street on the south, Locke Street on the west, and Blake
                    Street on the east, where Lockefield Gardens was eventually constructed.29
                Verbal support for the proposal did not readily translate into financial backing, perhaps in part
                    because of the level of secrecy the organizers attempted to maintain. The News
                    observed in an editorial at the beginning of November that the project "still wants the
                    support of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens willing to subscribe $787,000 to the purchase of stock." The paper
                    lamented that the plan remained "incomplete ... inasmuch as the identity of persons
                    supposed to be urging it is not known, and the financial details . . . have not been
                    revealed." Apparently stung by such criticism, Trimble released additional information
                    immediately. 
                        28Indianapolis Times, October 31, 1933; Indianapolis
                            Community Housing Corporation, "Project Number 41W" and "Project
                            Number 41N," folder H-1600, box 120, PHA Files; emphasis added. The boundaries of
                            the proposed white project were McCarty Street on the north, Ray Street on the south, West
                            Street on the west, and Capitol Avenue on the east. Indianapolis Star,
                            November 1, 1933.
                        29Indianapolis Star, November 1, 1933;
                            "Project Number 41N," folder H-1600, box 120, PHA Files.
                    
                     He advised that plans were being formulated "for the
                    creation of a non-profit, self-perpetuating body or company which will not issue stock"- a
                    corporation of "seven or nine of the highest type men in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to administer this project and trust." The federal government would be given a
                    first mortgage for its $4.46 million allocation. "Just what the nature of the obligations
                    to be given local investors and for local equity will be has not yet been determined in 
                        Washington
                     and as soon as it is the terms will be made public."30
                Federal officials had initially given the Community Housing Corporation a deadline of December 1 for
                    its final proposal and local funding arrangements. On that date an extension was granted to allow
                    the group "to perfect its plans." The day after Christmas, PWA officials announced
                    that they had rejected the project "as far as the present application is
                    concerned." Trimble, Beckett, and other corporation leaders were about to depart for 
                        Washington
                     for a previously scheduled meeting with federal housing officials when they heard the
                    news. They decided to proceed with the trip and after a hurried conference with Kohn the following
                    day they announced that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     proposal would remain under consideration. The Star's
                    headline reflected their confidence: "Housing Project for City Revived; Approval
                        Looms."31
                In fact, such approval never came, primarily because the leaders of the Community Housing Corporation
                    and their supporters proved unable to provide the local equity in a manner that federal officials
                    found acceptable. A strong hint of this outcome came early in 1934, when an article in the News reported that many individuals and organizations in the Hoosier capital were
                    convinced that Secretary Ickes would deem the proposal unsound. Noting that the promoters continued
                    to "refuse to divulge the methods by which the 
                        Indianapolis
                     equity is to be raised," the paper reported it had learned that
                    "workmen, contractors, material men and persons who sell the ground . . . will be
                    'assessed' for the money needed to be raised before the government will make its
                        loan."32
                The News did not provide a source for its information, but federal records support
                    the paper's account. An internal PWA memo prepared 
                        30Indianapolis News, November 3 (editorial), 4,
                            1933; Indianapolis Star, November 4, 1933.
                        31Indianapolis Star, December 2, 27, 28, 1933; Indianapolis Times, December 27, 28, 1933.
                        32Indianapolis News, January 10, 1934.
                    
                     by Kohn in mid-January addressed the secretary's
                    concerns about the "sufficiency and validity of the equity subscribed" for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     project. Although the Housing Division had previously agreed to reduce the local
                    "match" from $787,000 (15 percent) to $460,000 (9.35 per- cent), organizers were
                    clearly struggling to secure the required amount. Owners of the property to be acquired and
                    architects and builders had agreed "to take part payment in debentures"-that is,
                    to accept bonds backed by nothing more than the general credit of the Community Housing Corporation
                    rather than a lien on particular assets. Cash in hand amounted to only $100,000. On January 22,
                    1934, Ickes told Kohn of his "misgivings about this Indianapolis Community Housing
                    project," but indicated that he was willing to go ahead "provided I can be assured
                    a satisfactory set-up."33
                Ultimately, Ickes's concerns could not be assuaged. He continued to take exception to the
                    local organizers' fiscal creativity, and in early March he announced that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     project had been abandoned. The News quoted him as saying that
                    "we were ready at all times to go ahead" but that after "several time
                    extensions it is now evident that the local conditions imposed can not be met, and so we have
                    dropped the project." He emphasized that his decision was final and requested that
                    reporters "get it straight" that the proposal had been rejected "solely
                    because the 
                        Indianapolis
                     backers could not meet the financial condi- tions necessary to approval."34
                It appeared, therefore, that months of effort on the part of Beckett, Trimble, the Chamber of
                    Commerce, and the Community Housing Corporation had gone for naught-that a locally conceived slum
                    clearance and low-rent housing project for 
                        Indiana's
                     capital, financed principally by a federal loan to a limited-dividend corporation,
                    would not eventuate. But just a week later an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper advised its readers: "Housing Project for City Revived." The
                    accompanying story reported that Ickes had announced the possibility that an 
                        Indianapolis
                     project might be paid for outright from the federal housing corporation fund.
                    "Under the new plan," the paper explained, "residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     would not be required to raise an equity, as was attempted before when 
                        3Robert Kohn to Harold Ickes, January 19, 1934, Ickes to Kohn, January
                            22, 1934, folder H- 1600, box 121, PHA Files.
                        4Indianapolis News, March 6, 1934.
                    
                     the project was established as a limited dividend
                    corporation." The PWA director was making no promises: "It is almost like putting
                    out money for a new thing, and of course we are going to have to give it comprehensive
                    exploration." Still, the concept of federal support for housing in the city apparently had
                    not died.35
                Ickes's about-face was not as precipitate as it seemed. He had, from the start, expressed
                    his skepticism about the likely success of the limited-dividend program that the PWA had inherited
                    from the RFC, and he had seen his concerns borne out during the first few months of the Housing
                    Division's existence. Radford observes that, although applications began to pour in once
                    the agency liberalized its loan provisions, "few submissions merited serious
                    consideration." Many proposals "came from organizations sincerely devoted to
                    trying to expand the supply of good low-rent housing in their locales, but their plans, for the most
                    part, were either poorly conceived or underfunded (often both)." In the midst of a national
                    economic crisis, "lack of money and inability to put together plausible financial plans
                    were the critical barriers to participation"-an accurate description of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     situation. And 
                        Indianapolis
                     was hardly alone. Of the more than 500 proposals submit- ted for limited-dividend
                    housing projects, only seven were approved.36
                Ickes had announced in February 1934 that the limited-dividend program would cease and that the
                    Housing Division would assume direct responsibility for slum clearance and housing construction
                    projects-would undertake, in effect, the role of developer. As Radford has summarized the new
                    arrangement: "The division used local architectural firms and building contractors, but
                    closely supervised all phases of work. It acquired sites in its own name and retained title to land
                    and structures after construction was completed." This was the procedure under which Ickes
                    suggested in mid-March that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     project might be revived.37
                When Ickes announced on March 6 that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     proposal was being dropped and that his decision was final, it therefore seems likely
                    that he was already thinking of the Hoosier capital for one of the PWAs own projects. Some of the
                    Housing Division staff clearly did. On 
                        33Indianapolis News, March 14, 1934.
                        36Radford, Modern Housing for America, 92-93, 96.
                        37Ibid., 99. See also The American City, 49
                            (September 1934), 99.
                    
                     March 9 a regional projects manager for the division met with 
                        Indianapolis
                     architects Merritt Harrison and William Earl Russ, who had been involved with the
                    original proposal. Their discussion, according to a memo sent to Kohn the next day,
                    "revolved around what had best be done now that the total allocation has been
                    changed" from $4.6 million to $3.0 million. So although the level of support had been
                    reduced, federal officials and local proponents shared the assumption that the project would
                    proceed. The smaller budget raised the question of what cuts should be made from the initial plan,
                    with the most obvious issue being whether both black and white projects could now be undertaken.
                    Some difficulty arose in part because property in the proposed white area could not be obtained at a
                    reasonable price and the entire proposal was ultimately scaled back. The memo concluded-and senior
                    Housing Division and PWA administrators apparently accepted the suggestion immediately-that if
                    approximately $3.0 million "is to be used in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the work should be confined to the Negro Project near the Medical Center." A
                    few local complaints surfaced about this decision in subsequent months, but after March 1934 no real
                    question remained that the PWA housing project proposed for the Hoosier capital would be exclusively
                    for African American residents.38
                Within weeks of Ickes's announcement that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     project might be revived, several members of the Community Housing Corporation
                    submitted a formal application.39 Arguments for and against federal involvement
                    in the local housing market, which had been 
                        38 L. Ackerman to Robert Kohn, March 10, 1934, folder H-1600, box 121,
                            PHA Files. Beckett and the Indianapolis Community Housing Corporation revived the idea of a
                            second (white) slum clearance project on the city's south side, and submitted a
                            formal proposal to the Housing Division in January 1935. But in the wake of federal court
                            decisions that restricted the division's ability to use eminent domain to acquire
                            property when necessary, officials decided "to go forward with no more projects on
                            slum lands, or which would require the accumulation of a large number of parcels."
                            See "Prospectus for Proposed White Project, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 
                                Indiana
                             [January 1935]," and A. R. Clas to Carl Ferguson, July 22, 1935,
                            folder H-1600, box 121, PHA Files; Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 102-103.
                        39A copy of this application has not been found, but it seems probable
                            that it was substantially the same as the original limited-dividend proposal. A memo to
                            Ickes in August observed that: "On March 30, 1934, certain members of the above
                            mentioned group [a reference to the Community Housing Corporation], submitted a formal
                            application for the development of a Federal project on the site previously indicated for
                            the negro project. After thorough investigation, this project was approved."
                            Horatio Hackett, Memorandum to the Administrator, August 14, 1934, folder H-1600.703, box
                            121, PHA Files.
                    
                     rehearsed during debate over the limited-dividend proposal in
                    1933, continued during the spring and early summer of 1934. In late April, the Indianapolis Recorder reported "endorsements of the plan by leading colored
                    organizations of the city." The Monday Luncheon Club passed a resolution asking Secretary
                    Ickes to begin work immediately, and other African American organizations quickly followed suit.40 The Church Federation of Indianapolis, a coalition of the city's
                    mainline Protestant congregations, determined that it did not have the expertise to judge the
                    "economic, financial or structural plans" for the proposed project. But the
                    federation did "heartily" approve the elimination of slums and the construction in
                    their place of "modern hygienic homes that may be rented at moderate rates within the reach
                    of the low wage earner."41
                The Chamber of Commerce likewise continued its support of the endeavor. On April 27 the
                    organization's finance committee passed a resolution supporting the "proposed
                    Community Housing Plan of the Federal Government." Even more significantly, the
                    chamber's new executive vice-president, William H. Book, included a strong endorsement of
                    the project in a list of proposals for future Chamber of Commerce activities-proposals that the
                    board of directors promptly adopted. Book, while stressing that the organization should
                    "advance in every possible way the federal slum clearance project in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," admitted that "there has been some strenuous opposition to this
                    project locally." He argued, however, that the "benefit to the Indianapolis
                    building industry" and the "social benefit to the entire community through
                    elimination of congested, insanitary and crime and disease-producing living conditions"
                    should override any concerns. And then there was the reality of the situation: "The federal
                    government will spend a large sum of money on such projects and since it is to be spent it behooves
                    the people of the city to obtain the greatest possible benefit from the expenditure. 
                        Indianapolis
                     must pay its share of federal taxes, from which such expen- 
                        40lndianapolis Recorder, April 28, 1934.
                        41Church Federation of Indianapolis resolution, June 5, 1934, copy
                            appended to J. H. Brown to Horatio Hackett, June 6, 1934, folder H-1600.09, box 121, PHA
                            Files. Brown, then the Housing Division's manager in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , observed that while the federation's resolution did not
                            "specifically support our particular project, it is thoroughly in sympathy with the
                            idea, and at least removes this particular body from the realm of those who might
                            subsequently join in a protest."
                    
                     ditures must come. The practical course seems that of support
                    of the project and the development of others, when possible."42
                Others disagreed-for philosophical reasons, pocketbook reasons, and sometimes both. The editors of
                    the Indianapolis Star took cognizance of the argument that the city might as well
                    get in line for any largess available from 
                        Washington
                     but nonetheless believed that "it is a question as to whether the benefits
                    would offset the reasons for opposition." Those reasons included "the Federal
                    invasion of this field," which would be "a blow to realty interests and to many
                    with rental property which has become a burden through inability to find paying tenants."
                    Moreover, that paper argued, the Hoosier capital had "no 'slum' district
                    comparable with the dangerous tenements of 
                        New York
                     city."43
                The Indianapolis Real Estate Board could not have agreed more. Asserting that "you can not
                    rent the kind of property [apartments] they are intending to build in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," the board adopted a resolution that condemned the project as
                    "economically unsound and wrong in principle." The realtors expressed their
                    opposition to the federal government "entering into any business or fostering any projects
                    which are in competition with private enterprise or private industry"; they claimed that
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     proposal "would have a tendency to discourage home ownership which is the
                    foundation of our government" and argued that the rental rate of the new structures would
                    necessarily be "prohibitive to those now living in this district and would force these
                    occupants to blight other areas." When Ickes, who had been informed of the resolution, was
                    quoted in an Indianapolis paper expressing doubt that the Real Estate Board spoke for the people of
                    the city, local realtor O. P. Foreman (who described himself as an "ardent
                    Democrat") responded that he was convinced that 80 percent of the city's residents
                    agreed with the board's position. Among the owners of rental property with whom he had
                    talked, Foreman claimed, he had found no one "to 
                        42"Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of the
                            Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce," April 27, 1934, copy in box 4, folder 48,
                            Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce Collection (M422) (William Henry Smith Memorial Library,
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); "Tentative Proposals Affecting the Program of the Indianapolis
                            Chamber of Commerce," appended to Chamber of Commerce board minutes, July 19, 1934.
                            An intriguing aspect of this situation is that Book, who headed the Indianapolis Chamber of
                            Commerce for almost thirty years, has a reputation, earned somewhat later, as a conservative
                            who opposed most forms of federal aid.
                        4Indianapolis Star, March 16, 1934
                        (editorial).
                    
                    
                    
                        Architectural model of the neighborhood replaced by Lockefield Gardens, c.
                            1934 The architectural firm of Russ and Harrison, which won the contract to design
                            Lockefield Gardens, prepared this scale model of the buildings on the site. Courtesy
                            Indiana Historical Society
                     express himself other than in absolute opposition to the plan of the U.S. Govt. building
                    apartment buildings in Indianapolis and entering into direct competition with private industry in
                    the rental business."44
                Neither Ickes nor his newly appointed Housing Division director Horatio Hackett (Kohn had resigned
                    when it became apparent that Ickes preferred slum clearing to new housing) was dissuaded by the
                    project's opponents, and during the remainder of 1934 preliminary work continued. By the
                    beginning of June the project manager in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was corresponding with the 
                        Washington
                     office concerning technical details such as street abandonment and zoning in the
                    affected area. The Recorder reported in mid-July that 65 percent of the land had been acquired.
                    Several weeks later federal officials approved the appointment of a local advisory committee that
                    included many individuals who had 
                        44Indianapolis News, April 20, 23, 25, 1934; 0. P.
                            Foreman to Mr. Secretary [Ickes], April 26, 1934, folder H-1600.09, box 121, PHA Files. The
                                Star also supported the Real Estate Board, proclaiming in an
                            editorial: "The idea of government-owned rental property is distasteful to every
                            American citizen, even though his investments may not be directly jeopardized by a
                            competition which no private individual can meet." Not so, resolved the Mapleton
                            Branch of the Socialist Party, which urged Ickes to "disregard [the] real estate
                            board's opposition to [a] federal housing program as emanating from selfish,
                            speculative real estate operators. This board does not represent informed opinion of
                            public-spirited citizens." Indianapolis Star, April 24, 1934
                            (editorial); Indianapolis Times, April 23, 1934. Realtors in 
                                Philadelphia
                             likewise feared that new housing units would diminish the value of their
                            properties and objected to govern- ment competition when vacancies already existed. In other
                            cities opponents criticized federal use of eminent domain to obtain land. Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 103, 128-29.
                    
                     been involved with the limited-dividend proposal-such as
                    Beckett, Trimble, and Borinstein-as well as several other prominent residents. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     firm of Russ and Harrison was awarded the architectural contract. In early September,
                    with 90 percent of the land having been secured as a result of willing seller-willing buyer
                    negotiations, a PWA attorney initiated condemnation proceedings against the entire tract in order to
                    obtain the final 10 percent and to ensure that the Housing Division would have valid title to all
                    properties. By late November more than one hundred families and businesses had moved from the area
                    and the government began to issue checks to those property owners whose parcels had been
                        purchased.45
                Although the Housing Division and the Chamber of Commerce had worked together in formulating the
                    Lockefield project, they did not agree on all particulars. The federal agency typically requested
                    bids for construction of an entire enterprise. Some smaller 
                        Indianapolis
                    -area contractors complained that the size of the project would preclude their
                    submitting a bid, and thus an outside firm would inevitably get the job. The chamber took up their
                    cause, writing directly to Ickes to suggest that "the project be divided into three or four
                    units, or that at least bids be taken both on three or four units and on the project as a
                    whole." There was a "strong likelihood," the chamber argued, that
                    dividing the work would reduce costs. And, as they candidly admitted, "we are naturally
                    much interested in having our local contractors have [an] opportunity to bid on the
                    project." In a brief, almost curt, response, Hackett advised that although alternatives had
                    been given careful consideration the division had decided to let the work as a single contract.46
                Demolition of the existing structures began on December 18, 1934, and the principals turned the
                    occasion into a celebratory event. As the Star informed its readers that morning:
                    "Culminating months of 
                        45J. H. Brown to Horatio Hackett (Attn: M. D. Carrell), May 31, June
                            4, 1934, folder H- 1600.088, box 121, PHA Files; Indianapolis Recorder,
                            July 21, 1934; Horatio Hackett, Memorandum to the Administrator [Ickes], August 14, 1934,
                            folder H-1600.703, box 121, PHA Files; Indianapolis Star, September 7,
                            1934; Indianapolis Times, August 22, September 7, November 26, 1934.
                        46Louis Borinstein to Harold Ickes, November 14, 1934, Horatio Hackett
                            to Borinstein, November 26, 1934, folder H-1600.09, box 121, PHA Files. See also Indianapolis Star, December 4, 1934. Hackett did offer the suggestion that
                            several local contractors could band together and submit a single bid. In the end the
                            principal construction contract did in fact go to an outside firm, the N. P. Severin Company
                            of Chicago.
                    
                     work to bring the slum clearance project to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , representatives of state, municipal and civic organizations will gather at noon today
                    for a luncheon ... to mark the start of the clearing of the slum section ... in the vicinity of the
                    City Hospital, [which] is expected to become a model Negro community." Trimble, who chaired
                    the advisory committee and had been involved with the initiative since its beginnings, presided over
                    the event. Several prominent members of the city's African American community were in
                    attendance, including Faburn DeFrantz, who was also a member of the advisory committee. The
                    governor, the mayor, the president of the Chamber of Commerce (Borinstein), and the president of the
                    Construction League of 
                        Indianapolis
                     all offered brief remarks. The main address was given by Hackett who praised the city
                    for being "one of the first to make a survey of its blighted areas and to estimate in
                    dollars and cents the cost of supporting a decaying section." Following lunch the group
                    took a bus tour of the district and then joined a crowd of residents to watch as a small house in
                    the 800 block of West Walnut Street was quickly razed. (A proposal to dynamite this structure, an
                    action that some local newspapers erroneously reported actually took place, was rejected by the
                    demolition contractor due to safety concerns.) Clearing the 22-acre tract of its buildings, streets,
                    sidewalks, and utilities took several months. The general construction contract was let in the
                    spring of 1935, the formal groundbreaking ceremony took place in July of that year, and Lockefield
                    Gardens (the name was selected in 1936) opened its doors to tenants in early 1938.47
                This examination of the origins of Lockefield Gardens confirms much of what has been known about the
                    project, but it also reveals details that have gone unrecognized. Previous narratives have not, for
                    example, noted that the initial plans for the complex called for it to be situated several blocks
                    north of where it was ultimately constructed. And the reality of Lockefield's status as a
                    segregated community for African Americans has obscured the fact that very serious consideration was
                    given, in both 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , to building a whites-only project as well.
                
                    47Indianapolis Star, December 18, 19, 1934; Indianapolis News, December 18, 1934; Indianapolis Times, December
                        18, 19, 1934; Indianapolis Recorder, December 22, 1934.
                
                
                Perhaps the most significant finding, given Lockefield's usual asso- ciation with the New
                    Deal, is that the concept emerged as a local response to a perceived problem (albeit with hopes for
                    substantial external funding). The Planning and Housing Committee (later the Community Plan
                    Committee) of the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, which sponsored research to identify the
                    city's housing needs and began searching for solutions, existed before the Housing Division
                    was established. And when local architect Merritt Harrison wrote to the newly created Public Works
                    Administration in June 1933, he referred to an "actual project . . . that we have on the
                    boards for low cost housing." It is true that 
                        Indianapolis
                     leaders were on the prowl for federal dollars, and that Beckett, Trimble, and others
                    worked diligently in late 1933 and early 1934 to meet the local equity criterion of the Housing
                    Division's "limited dividend" program in order to secure a long-term
                    government loan. But the idea for a slum clearance and low-income housing project
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     originated locally-it was not imposed from 
                        Washington
                    . Only after the city failed to raise the "match" required for the
                    loan did the PWAs Housing Division decide to take on the project itself-a project for which much of
                    the preliminary work had already been done.48
                The innovative design features of Lockefield Gardens-a low-density plan, chevron-shaped buildings
                    oriented to take advantage of natural light and ventilation, and a central mall-were much admired
                    and widely copied, one reason preservationists so adamantly opposed destruction of the complex
                    decades later. The craftsmanship of the buildings has usually been described as having been of the
                    highest quality, but in fact serious construction defects led to considerable criticism and required
                    remediation that delayed occupancy for many months. The criteria used to select residents, and the
                    "means test" used to determine 
                        48For a list of the fifty-one projects built directly by the PWA, see
                            Radford, Modern Housing for 
                                    America
                                , 100-101. Several of these projects have been the subject of scholarly
                            examination, for example, John F Bauman, "Black Slums/Black Projects: The New Deal
                            and Negro Housing in 
                                Philadelphia
                            ," 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 History, 41 (July 1974), 311-38; John E Bauman, "Safe and
                            Sanitary Without the Costly Frills: The Evolution of Public Housing in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1929- 1941," Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
                                Biography, 101 (January 1977), 114-28; Raymond A. Mohl, "Trouble in
                            Paradise: Race and Housing in 
                                Miami
                             During the New Deal Era," Prologue, 19 (Spring
                            1987), 7-21; Frank Ruechel, "New Deal Public Housing, Urban Poverty, and Jim Crow:
                            Techwood and University Homes in 
                                Atlanta
                            ," Georgia Historical Quarterly, 81 (Winter 1997),
                            915-37.
                    
                     their continued eligibility, also caused complaints over the
                    years. But in December 1934 such controversies lay in the future, and the residents of the Hoosier
                    capital who had proposed and advanced the Lockefield Gardens project no doubt took great
                    satisfaction in watching the site being cleared for the city's first foray into public
                    housing.
            
            
            
                Memory, Identity, and Heritage in the Great Depression The 
                        LaPorte
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , Centennial of 1932 as a Case Study
                GEORGE W BOUDREAU
                In 1932, residents of 
                        LaPorte
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , commemorated their city's centennial by compiling a written history,
                    reconstructing a log cabin, transforming downtown shops into a citywide museum of historical
                    artifacts, and presenting a massive outdoor pageant. Such a celebration was not in itself unusual;
                    many early twentieth-century American communities hosted similar anniversary celebrations that
                    embraced local and national icons, entertained citizens, and heralded the past as a foundation for
                    future greatness.1 Unlike other commemorations, however, 
                        George W Boudreau teaches history and American studies at the Capital College of Penn
                            State University. The author wishes to thank Dorothy Rowley and Glenn Linnemann, both now
                            deceased, for sharing their expertise during the earliest parts of this project. Thanks too
                            to John Bodnar, Allis Eaton Bennett, Stephen Harp, James H. Madison, Anders Greenspan,
                            Judith Van Buskirk, and the late Paul R. Lucas for comments on various drafts of this
                            project, as well as the helpful insights of the two anonymous readers and current staff of
                            the IMH. For research assistance, thanks to Susie Richter and James
                            Rodgers of the LaPorte County Historical Society Museum, Jessica Jacko and Monicah Fratena
                            of the LaPorte County Public Library, and Alan January of the Indiana State Archives.
                        1Surveying such community interest, historian David Lowenthal reminds
                            that while "[w]e are apt to call such communion history . . . it is actually
                            heritage. The distinction is vital. History explores and explains pasts grown ever more
                            opaque over time; heritage clarifies pasts so as to infuse them with present
                            purposes." David Lowenthal, Possessed by the Past: The
                        Heritage
                    
                    
                    
                        LaPorte's
                     coincided with the local arrival of the worst effects of the Great Depression,
                    including the sale of the town's largest manufactory. As the Depression grew worse around
                    them, townspeople crafted a celebration that would acknowledge carefully selected aspects of the
                    town's heritage-triumph over economic hard times, pioneer perseverance, and community
                    spirit-while ignoring other parts of its history. 
                        LaPorte's
                     centennial celebration offers an intriguing case study of the ways in which Americans
                    utilized their community heritage to combat the crisis of the Depression on the eve of the New
                    Deal-before federal aid offered small American communities any hope of beating the psychological and
                    economic crisis.
                THE DEPRESSION AND SELECTIVE COMMEMORATION
                
                        LaPorte
                     in the early 1930s was a city shaped both by its agricultural environment and by the
                    industries that had developed in the town. 
                        LaPorte's
                     1931 directory noted the city's proximity by train to 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        South Bend
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In booster rhetoric typical of the era, the directory's editors lauded
                    "The Maple City" for its "tree lined streets and avenues affording an
                    ideal setting for its beautiful homes," adding that "[i]t has the best in
                    educational, social and health advantages." Most importantly, the city-situated just east
                    of the Chicagoland area known affectionately today as "da Region"-possessed urban
                    advantages without urban concerns: "Being eighty-five minutes from the Chicago Loop, it is
                    near enough away to be free from the perplexing problems incident to manufacturing in a large
                        city."2
                Early discussions of 
                        LaPorte's
                     pending centennial reflected this booster ideology. The April 15, 1926, LaPorte Herald-Argus reported that local insurance agent Ralph W. Roderick had proposed
                    that the local Lions Club "sponsor preliminary plans for the celebration,"
                    including a 
                        Crusade and the Spoils of History (
                                New York
                            , 1996), xi. See also Michael Kammen, "History is Our Heritage: The
                            Past in Contemporary American Culture," In the Past Lane: Historical
                                Perspectives on American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1997), 213-25; Kammen, "Heritage," in Encyclopedia of Local History, eds. Carol Kammen and Norma Prendergast (
                                Walnut Creek
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 2000), 226-28. Thanks to Edward Linenthal for his advice on this topic.
                        2Caron's LaPorte, Indiana City Directory for
                                1931-1932 (
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Ky.
                            , 1931). The directory esti- mated LaPorte's population at 17,302 in
                            1931; the 1930 census had recorded it at 15,755. U.S., Fifteenth Census,
                            1930: Vol. 3, Population, 716.
                    
                     "pretentious pageant." Planned in a club
                    meeting of local boosters, the commemoration originated as a celebration of local accomplishments
                    and progress. As to its likely timing, Roderick reminded the group that the first land grants for
                    the town of 
                        LaPorte
                     had been given on October 19, 1831, while incorporation had taken place in 1835. The
                    decision to celebrate either in 1931 or 1935 could be made by city officials and by leaders of the
                    LaPorte County Historical Society. Historical society reports from the late 1920s mention the
                    commencement of planning for a 1932 celebration, but the society remained largely dormant in the
                    era, and no action followed. Only after the economic transformation that began in October 1929 did
                    LaPorteans begin actively to pursue the idea of a celebration of heritage on a local level.3
                By the time 
                        LaPorte's
                     community leaders began the formal plans for their centennial, the economic and
                    cultural landscape of the United States had changed profoundly. Today, the collective memory of
                    those who did not live through the Great Depression is shaped as much by Hollywood as by reality.
                    Asked to describe what the Depression did to the nation, Americans imagine small towns like the
                    fictional Bedford Falls in Frank Capra's It's a Wonderful Life
                    (1946), where panicked depositors make a run on the town's banks following the stock market
                    crash. The arrival of the Depression in small-town 
                        Indiana
                     proved less dramatic and even more insidious.4 Writing in 1932,
                    historian Gerald W. 
                        3"Centennial For City is Planned," LaPorte Herald-Argus, April 15, 1926; on the historical society, see the
                            society's archives and stories in the LaPorte Herald-Argus, June
                            21, 1917, February 21, 1921, January 28, 1924, December 9, 1927, December 5, 1935. The late
                            Martin Barlag, a longtime member and president of the historical society in LaPorte,
                            collected a massive array of newspapers and other printed materials related to the history
                            of the city and its industries. The files are now preserved in the LaPorte County Historical
                            Society and greatly aided my research. On boosterism and public history, see Phillip Payne,
                            "Boosterism," in Encyclopedia of Local History, eds.
                            Kammen and Prendergast, 58-60.
                        4As I carried out the research for this essay, first in the late
                            1980s, then more actively while on an extended visit to 
                                Indiana
                             in 2003, I was struck by the ways present-day Hoosiers have crafted their
                            collective memory of the Great Depression. Hearing that I was interested in the coming of
                            the Depression to 
                                Indiana
                            , people I spoke to, including library and archive staffs and other local
                            citizens, conflated the Depression and the New Deal as they recalled those years. Over and
                            over again, they began by recalling family members losing jobs at local factories or
                            hardships on farms, then quickly turned the story of economic crisis into one of community
                            action, identity, and survival. Many shared family stories about a father or an uncle who
                            pointed with pride at a New Deal building that he had helped build. I am especially grateful
                            for the recollections of Everette L. Boudreau, my father, who remembered his
                            father's losing his job at a 
                                LaPorte County
                             factory, shoveling snow and doing road work under New Deal programs, and
                            eventually being able to buy a family farm in 
                                LaPorte County
                             in 1940.
                    
                     Johnson noted that "[i]n the mind of the average
                    American 1931 was the year of the Great Depression, for it was in this past twelve months that it
                    really affected us who are just ordinary people, not international bankers, not financiers of any
                    sort, not great executives and not derelicts who are chronically on the verge of unemployment in all
                        years."5 More than a year after Black Friday, the pages of the LaPorte Herald-Argus reveal only the slow effects of the downturn upon the lives
                    of Hoosier farmers, business leaders, and families.
                When the Depression did hit 
                        LaPorte
                    , its effects were felt most acutely in the changing fortunes of the town's
                    largest employer. The Advance-Rumely Company began as a producer of threshing equipment, founded by
                    German immigrant Meinrad Rumely in 1853. During the first decade of the twentieth century, the
                    founder's grandson, Dr. Edward A. Rumely, returned from studying in Europe with a plan to
                    focus his attention on creating a school for boys that emphasized physical work, but instead found
                    that his family's company had fallen on hard times due to his uncle's management
                    problems and his father's poor health. Partnering with John Secor, Rumely created the
                    Rumely Oil Pull Farm Tractor-affectionately known as "Kerosene Annie"-one of the
                    first tractors ever produced. The company gradually transformed 
                        LaPorte
                     into an internationally renowned manufacturing center, turning its $1 million in annual
                    sales in 1906 into $38 million by 1913. In 1913, Rumely merged the firm with the Advance Company of 
                        Battle Creek
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , and the company continued to flourish alongside the town, which erected new churches,
                    housing developments, and other innovations to meet the needs of the new industrial workers drawn to 
                        LaPorte
                     by the company. The centerpiece of 
                        LaPorte's
                     new prosperity was the Rumely Hotel, located in the center of the town's
                    business district, where visiting dignitaries and local business and civic leaders could dine and
                    stay in style. For the hotel's lobby and dining room, Rumely commissioned artist Robert
                    Grafton to paint a series of eleven murals depicting the "industrial progress of the
                    present century in comparison with former periods, showing what the genius of man has been able to
                    accomplish, the wonderful work he has performed."6
                
                    5Gerald W. Johnson, "The Average American and the
                        Depression," Current History, 35 (February 1932), 671.
                    6Philip Morehouse McGarr, ed., "The Autobiography of Dr. Edward
                        A. Rumely: The Formative Years, 1882-1900," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 66 (March 1970), 1-39; E. D. Daniels,
                
                
                The Depression hit the Advance-Rumely company hard. In 1929, it reported losses of $395,000; the
                    following year, that deficit rose to $1,213,605 and the company closed its 
                        Battle Creek
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , operations. In April 1931, the Herald-Argus reported plans for the
                    company's sale to the Allis-Chalmers company of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , an event that followed in June. No surviving records indicate how many 
                        LaPorte
                     workers lost their jobs, but personal accounts speak to the implications of this and
                    other effects of the Depression on local families. Dorothy Rowley, a secretary in the collection
                    department of the Rumely plant from the late 1920s until its closing, recalled that her
                    mother-formerly an employee of a fashionable local clothing store-would stay at home because her
                    shoes were unfit to wear downtown. Lacking money for new cloth, neighbors would pass on outgrown
                    clothing to be disassembled and remade. Men who found work carried lunch pails holding only tomato
                    and onion sandwiches, or, Rowley recalled, only popcorn.7
                Maintaining its booster stance, the town's sole newspaper published optimistic reports, but
                    county records paint a bleaker picture. Starting in November 1931, the Unemployment Relief
                    Organization noted a sharp increase in demands for assistance-$60,000 for the last three months of
                    1931 and $112,590 for the first quarter of 1932. Local officials initiated belt-tightening programs
                    and called on civic leaders to wage a "War on the Depression" by hiring the
                    unemployed. Twice in 1932-in June and September-the 
                        LaPorte
                     board of commissioners authorized $250,000 in bond sales to address the
                    "emergency having been created by the extreme conditions of unemployment"; by
                    October 
                        A Twentieth Century History and Biographical Record of 
                                    LaPorte County
                                , 
                                    Indiana
                                 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1904), 407-412; "Art Work is Being Placed in the Rumely,"
                                LaPorte Herald-Argus, December 27, 1913; "Magnificent Hotel
                            Creations the Handiwork of 
                                LaPorte Co.
                             Artist," LaPorte Herald-Argus, April 22, 1915. On
                            the boom economy that transformed 
                                LaPorte
                            , see Martin Barlag and George Boudreau, Diary of a Small Town
                            ( 
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Ind
                            ., 1982), 125-34. Rumely's Interlaken School opened in 1907 and drew a
                            long list of Progressive reformers and noted industrialists who watched the boys learn
                            formal subjects as well as woodworking, metal work, printing, and farm labor. In the
                            school's first years, Rumely worked all day at the company and slept in quarters at
                            the school.
                        7The LaPorte County Historical Society maintains an extensive
                            collection on the Advance-Rumely Company and Allis-Chalmers in its archives. See also Scott
                            L. Thompson, Rumely: A Look Back over 150 Years, 1853-2003 (
                                Tremont
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 2002), 162-63. The LaPorte Herald-Argus published numerous
                            stories relating to the sale of Advance-Rumely to Allis-Chalmers in the first months of
                            1932. Dorothy Rowley (former associate curator of the LaPorte County Historical Society
                            Museum and county historian for 
                                LaPorte County
                            ), interview by author, October 23, 1988.
                    
                     they noted the "increasing difficulty in interesting
                    bidders in Poor Relief bonds."8
                In this crisis environment, local minister Victor P. Frohne called for a renewed plan to celebrate
                    the town's centennial. "
                        LaPorte
                     will be 100 years old next year," Frohne wrote in the November 11, 1931, Herald-Argus. "Something should and will be done about it."
                    Having already communicated with local civic leaders, Frohne suggested that "[e]ach church,
                    lodge, business, etc., could make most splendid use of the opportunity to recount for its members
                    the early history of the organization. It would be a great home-coming for all former LaPorteans. A
                    celebration, such as we are outlining, could serve to unite the entire city as one great community.
                    It would draw people from the entire county and perhaps from other points in the state."
                    Frohne noted that a "mammoth pageant" was "already being
                    considered," enthused that "[t]he wigwams of the Indians would once again be
                    seen" and that " [e]arly settlers would come with oxcarts and wagons." "
                        LaPorte
                     would grow before our eyes," he continued, "and history would be
                    compassed within a few hours that has been 100 years in the making." Noting the newly felt
                    effects of the Great Depression he added: "One thing is certain-no great amount of money
                    will be available. Participants will all be asked to donate services and time. It will be a splendid
                    opportunity to do something for the community that we love." Calling on local residents to
                    face the current problems with inspiration from the past, Frohne promised a "celebration
                    that would be a celebration," an event that would lift community spirits as it commemorated
                    a selective heritage and verified the status quo.9
                
                    8"Poor Relief Demands are Increasing Here," LaPorte Herald-Argus, January 4, 1932. For data on the various efforts in 
                            LaPorte
                         and 
                            LaPorte County
                         to combat the Depression, see Barlag Chronological Files (LaPorte County Historical
                        Society Museum). For a study of the Depression coming to 
                            Bloomington
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        , see George W. Boudreau, Hometown Banker: A Centennial History of the
                            Monroe County Bank (
                            Bloomington
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        , 1992). See Minutes of the LaPorte County Commissioners, vol. W, pp. 148, 164, 169,
                        171 (LaPorte County Recorder's Office). No records of how many-or which-LaPorteans
                        received relief in this period survive. The late Glenn Linnemann, former president of the county
                        historical society, suspected that the unemployment records had been destroyed by Gene McDonald,
                        a county resident, part-time county employee, amateur historian, and noted local curmudgeon.
                        Linneman believed that McDonald remembered his own family's struggles during the
                        Depression and did not want families to be embarrassed by the unemployment relief records
                        becoming public. Alan January of the Indiana State Library informs me that no state or national
                        records of unemployment statistics in the county exist prior to the spring of 1933. Alan
                        January, email to author, January 4, 2005.
                    9Victor Frohne, "Suggests Plans for 
                            LaPorte
                         Centennial Fete Next Year," LaPorte Herald-Argus,
                        November 11, 1931. Frohne (1901-1976) was a native of 
                            Rockport
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        , who moved to
                
                
                On January 16, 1932-while county commissioners faced a budget deficit and growing requests for
                    relief-the Herald-Argus reported that "a score of representative 
                        LaPorte
                     citizens met in the Y.M.C.A." to begin plans for the centennial celebration,
                    under the leadership of Dr. H. H. Martin, president of 
                        LaPorte's
                     Inter-Club Council.10 The group's timing spoke more to
                    current conditions in the city than it did to historical relevance. The year 1932 represented the
                    centennial neither of the arrival of 
                        LaPorte's
                     first white settler (widow Miriam Benedict in 1829), nor of its first log cabin (1830),
                    its first land sales within the city (1831), or its incorporation (1835). It did mark the
                    one-hundredth anniversary of 
                        LaPorte County's
                     incorporation by the Indiana state legislature, its first elections, and the first
                    meeting of its county commissioners in George Thomas's log cabin on May 28, 1832.11
                Centennial organizers concerned themselves not so much with commemorating specific dates as with
                    evoking the heritage of their town's first settlers and demonstrating 
                        LaPorte's
                     steady progress from frontier outpost to hometown community. By April, fifty committee
                    chairs had begun to prepare for the "gigantic" celebration. The names of their
                    committees reflected the range of topics envisioned for the centennial's written history,
                    as well as of related centennial activities including a pageant, publicity, preservation of
                    "relics," and erection of permanent monuments. The list of chairs read like a
                    "Who's Who" of the city: local 
                        
                                LaPorte
                             in October 1925 to assume the pastorate of the St. Paul United Church of
                            Christ. His 1976 obituary referred to him as "dean of 
                                LaPorte
                             ministers" and noted his active role in community activities in the
                            previous fifty years. LaPorte Herald-Argus, February 24, 1976.
                        10"Outlines Plans for Centennial Here in Summer,"
                                LaPorte Herald-Argus, January 16, 1932. A civic-minded physician,
                            Martin had treated Hoosierette Viola Andrew Cochran, a daughter of one of the
                            city's founders who, with her brother, Captain A. P. Andrew, shared reminiscences
                            of the town's early settlement with him. Both hoped to live until the
                            city's centennial and recommended rebuilding the town's first log cabin.
                            The other sixteen members of the committee-thirteen men and three women-included physicians,
                            lawyers, a high school history teacher (Miss Frankie Jones), the city health officer (John
                            Kelly), a post office employee (C. W. Francis), a farmer (Harry Stanton), and Fanny Scott
                            Rumely, descendant of two of 
                                LaPorte's
                             founding families and the wife of Dr. Edward Rumely. Caron's 
                                    LaPorte
                                , Indiana City Directory for 1931-1932. Francis, a cousin of H. H.
                            Martin, was a longtime collector of local and national history memorabilia, a stalwart
                            member of the LaPorte County Historical Society, and supporter of a variety of other
                            community efforts. On Francis and the historical society, see LaPorte Herald-
                                Argus, June 30, 1923, January 28, June 23, 1924, March 10, 1934.
                        11LaPorte County Commissioners Records, first book, May 28, 1832
                            (LaPorte County Commissioner's Office); Jasper Packard, History of 
                                    LaPorte County
                                , 
                                    Indiana
                                 and its Townships, Towns and Cities (
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1876), 37-38; Charles C. Chapman, History of 
                                    LaPorte County
                                , 
                                    Indiana
                                 and History of 
                                    Indiana
                                 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880).
                    
                     bankers, prominent merchants, physicians, and women of
                    "old families." Less discernible is the role to be played by the local government
                    and its leaders.12 In an April 19 speech, Martin charged the committee chairs to
                    "become more '
                        LaPorte
                    -minded.'" Comparing the hard times of the 1930s to those of the
                    1830s, he showed that the first settlers had persevered in spite of even greater difficulties.
                    "Now in this Centennial year I think it is well for this community to take stock of just
                    what we have accomplished during the past one hundred years, what progress we have made,"
                    Martin said, adding that "[w]hether we have lived up to all of the possibilities, perhaps
                    time alone will tell."13
                It quickly became apparent that this celebration of the past dealt with the present as well. An
                    undated manuscript from the centennial files in the LaPorte County Museum presented first a timely
                    assessment: "The present deplorable and distracted conditions of our National and State
                    affairs-the unfavorable progress of the present season-the distress in financial circles-the
                    universal paralysis of all business pursuits, all appeal to us in accents which we cannot disregard,
                    that our expenditures should be attended with prudence and economy." Following these lines,
                    the author revealed that "[t]he Above words were not spoken by a present-day politician,
                    even though they seem to fit existing conditions like a glove. They were spoken in 1861 when Mayor
                    Noyes took office in 
                        LaPorte
                    ." The message was clear: "History repeats itself . . . . A Depression
                    is nothing new," the writer continued, "but a Centennial can be celebrated only
                    once in a Century."14 The centennial committee's carefully
                    selected vision of community heritage-a series of images of better times and recollections of
                    victories in previous struggles-would draw citizens together in a shared affirmation of their past
                    and a renewed resolution to overcome the trials of the present.
                Contemporary circumstances also helped centennial organizers to determine which aspects of the
                    city's past to exclude from their celebrations. The months that separated Frohne's
                    public call for a commemora- 
                        12"Organization to Plan Centennial Near Formation: Chairmen
                            Named by Dr. H. H. Martin Meet at 7:30 Tomorrow Night, Vision Celebration on Gigantic
                            Scale," LaPorte Herald-Argus, April 18, 1932. See also H. H.
                            Martin, "Elderly Persons of County to Be Honored Here Sept. 12," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 2, 1932.
                        13Martin, manuscript of untitled speech, April 19, 1932 (LaPorte
                            County Historical Society Museum).
                        14"
                                LaPorte
                             Centennial," undated (LaPorte County Historical Society
                        Museum).
                    
                     tion from the April meeting had brought nothing but bad news
                    from factories around the town and across the nation. Manufacturing had been essential to the
                    town's development. But aside from brief attention given to the Andrew sawmill constructed
                    in 1832, nothing in the organizers' minutes indicates any desire to recall 
                        LaPorte's
                     industrial past.
                Likewise, residents chose to ignore 
                        LaPorte's
                     most famous-or infamous-former citizen. In 1908, a fire swept through the farmhouse of
                    Belle Storset Sorenson Gunness, a widow living just north of the city. Among the charred ruins,
                    workmen uncovered the bodies of three children and a decapitated woman, "stacked like cord
                    wood." Excavations throughout the property turned up thirteen more bodies; further
                    investigations identified numerous cases in which Gunness had received the benefits of fire and life
                    insurance policies. The story of the "mad mistress of murder hill" created a media
                    frenzy much like that which had accompanied the Lizzy Borden case in 
                        Massachusetts
                     decades earlier, and 
                        LaPorte
                     took on a carnival-like atmosphere as the Gunness story spread across the country. Mass
                    murder soon turned into big business in 
                        LaPorte County
                     as special excursion trains brought onlookers from surrounding urban areas and
                    reporters flocked to the city reporting both real discoveries and fabricated theories. City
                    officials stopped digging for bodies to calm the atmosphere, they reported, but local gossips
                    alleged they had taken bribes from the still-alive Gunness, who they believed had made a
                    middle-of-the-night escape after poisoning her children and the woman and setting the house
                        ablaze.15 The story drew tourists to the town from 1908 onward, and numerous
                    published and verbal accounts kept the narrative alive. Even as centennial plans were under way, the
                        Herald-Argus reported rumors from 
                        Los Angeles
                     that Gunness was alive on the West Coast.16
                While the Belle Gunness story had brought a measure of fame-and even economic benefit-to the town for
                    more than two decades, civic boosters found no place for it in their cleaned-up version of their
                        
                        15Dorothy Rowley, "She Put 
                                LaPorte
                             on the Map: Belle Gunness, Mail-Order Murderess," unpublished
                            manuscript, part of "Not to Be Forgotten: The 
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            , Historical Research of Dorothy H. Rowley" (copy in possession of the
                            author); Madeline G. Kinney, The Gunness Story (1964; 
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1984); Lillian de la Torre, The Truth about Belle Gunness (
                                New York
                            , 1955). For an analysis of gendered and ethnic reactions to the case see Paula
                            K. Hinton, "'Just Like One of the Family': An Immigrant Murderess
                            in Turn-of-the-Century 
                                America
                            ," Ohio Valley History, 6 (Winter 2006), 27-47.
                        16"
                                Los Angeles
                             Tries to Arouse Interest in Gunness Case," LaPorte
                                Herald-Argus, April 29, 1931.
                    
                     collective past. Not only did the episode offend the
                    still-Victorian sensibilities of the townspeople, but suspicion lingered about the complicity of
                    county officials in the story's cover-up. In a moment of economic crisis and governmental
                    impotence, 
                        LaPorte's
                     celebrators preferred stories that offered morality tales for later generations.
                    Historian John Bodnar has observed that "history occupied the minds of Americans to a
                    remarkable extent during the 1930s. Economic decline and social unrest had brought into question
                    some of the most fundamental values promoted in the twentieth century .... The future appeared more
                    uncertain than ever but a past still existed that promised to reaffirm the fact that difficult times
                    had been overcome before."17 The decisions 
                        LaPorte's
                     centennial organizers made about what to celebrate-or ignore-reveal how residents of
                    this town viewed their nation, themselves, and their collective past. The contest of symbols that
                    emerged as LaPorteans prepared their written history, log cabin, festivities, and pageant reflected
                    the unique shaping influences of the Depression years.
                SELECTING THE PAST: WRITING THE CENTENNIAL HISTORY
                The most contested aspect of the centennial celebration proved to be the proposed written history. In
                    his April 19 speech to committee chairs, Martin announced a "publicity stunt" to
                    draw in local experts or enthusiasts to research and write a series of articles that would appear in
                    the local newspaper and then be placed in the local library. While "[t]here is not
                    sufficient money on hand" for publishing the articles as a book, wrote Frohne two years
                    later, Martin's plan put large numbers of citizens to work researching and writing, thereby
                    creating useful work at the same time as recalling the important heritage of the town's
                    people and institutions.18
                In a series of letters to the Herald-Argus in the weeks that followed, Dr. Edward
                    A. Rumely presented a different use for the past. Like Martin, Rumely envisioned a history produced
                    by volunteers, but his would be geared to a larger audience and written in a different tone. Not
                        
                        17John Bodnar, Remaking 
                                    America
                                : Public Memory, Commemoration, and Patriotism in the Twentieth Century (
                                Princeton
                            , 
                                NJ.
                            , 1992), 127.
                        18Minutes of a meeting held at the Rumely Hotel at 12 noon on July 6,
                            1934, for the Purpose of Discussing the 
                                LaPorte
                             Centennial History," LaPorte Herald-Argus, July 7,
                            1934.
                    
                    
                    
                        A scene from Robert Graftons murals in the Rumely Hotel, 
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            , c. 1915 Graftons murals reflected Edward Rumelys belief that Americans
                            should forget the excesses of the modern world and "retreat to a simpler and
                            sounder life." Courtesy Dr. Peter Kessling, photograph by Robert Wellinski
                     a simple celebration of better times, the book he conceived would apply an
                    "analysis of 
                        LaPorte
                     and its past" to the task of promoting "further growth and a
                    broadening of employment opportunity." In the town's combined rural and industrial
                    heritage, Rumely saw the makings of a broader lesson for 
                        America
                    : "Our economic order, as that of every country in the world, has been shaken
                    to its foundations. Its weaknesses are revealed. The sooner we forget the past eighteen years and
                    our rushing about for easy, speculative profits and our effort to satisfy ourselves by external,
                    material things, the better off we shall be. We have over-organized, overbuilt. Now the retreat to a
                    simpler and sounder life is already under way."19
                
                    19Edward A. Rumely, letter to LaPorte Herald-Argus, May
                        23, May 24, 1932, "Centennial" file (LaPorte County Historical Society
                        Museum).
                
                
                Rumely believed strongly in Progressive reform and maintained a definite "great
                    man" view of history, counting himself among the great men. He emphasized that the ills
                    felt by American workers and industrialists in 1932 could be reduced by relocating to towns like 
                        LaPorte
                    . In such places, residents could find employment in factories during boom times and
                    live on their own farms, producing the food and fuel they needed to survive during slack times.
                    "Only last week," Rumely reported, "one head of a 
                        LaPorte
                     industry remarked that the three of his workmen who are best off at the present time
                    are men living just beyond the town on a few acres each, supplementing their factory earnings with
                    products of their own land, living at low expense so that the restricted income of part time
                    employment has still left their families with budget balanced." Rumely argued that his
                    proposed rural-industrial order was gaining international support; he related the story that Adolf
                    Hitler, asked what his party would do for Germany, had recently responded, "My greatest
                    project is the moving of two millions of families out of our overbuilt cities into the security of
                    home ownership on small plots of land where they can produce their own food." Rumely added
                    that "[1]ast week the Associated Press carried the Gerhart Hauptmann message urging the
                    Europeans to get back to nature to forget their contemporary woes."20
                Rumely suggested that his 250-page book, to be titled 
                            LaPorte
                        , Its One Hundred Years of Past, Its Next Twenty Years, would cost $5 for the
                    first hundred copies, $3 for the next four hundred, and would "possibly leave upwards of
                    $1,000 or $1,500 toward the expenses of making this Centenary Celebration the basis of the
                    city's future growth."21 In addition to being quite
                    unaffordable to those of his former employees living on popcorn, Rumely's plan bore the
                    twin taints of his connection with the failed Advance-Rumely plant and his close connections to the
                    German government-he had been jailed during World War I on false charges that he had purchased the
                        New York Evening Mail with funds provided by the Kaiser's government.
                    LaPorteans discarded Rumely's call to grow a new order out of the town's heritage.
                Residents instead adopted Martin's proposal to give locals something to do to keep their
                    minds off the woes associated with the 
                        20Ibid., May 24, 1932.
                        21Ibid., May 23, May 24, 1932.
                    
                     Depression. Edith Backus, secretary of the centennial
                    committee, later reported that "Dr. Martin requested articles on every conceivable subject.
                    No limit was placed upon the number of words to be written and, in consequence, the undertaking has
                    exceeded even our most sanguine expectations." Dorothy Rowley and her brother, George, were
                    both unemployed, but the project, as she later reported, kept their minds off economic problems:
                    "it was to remind people that things were going to get better." Each article was
                    written by a resident or former resident who had direct ties to the area of study. Significantly,
                    the book shows a democratization of the recording of history-though organized by elite committee
                    chairs, the final product was carried out by members of many different social, religious, and ethnic
                    backgrounds, who were associated with many different patriotic, civic, philanthropic, and business
                    organizations. The written history of the centennial became a celebration of the commitment and
                    durability of these groups.22
                DISPLAYING THE PAST: THE CENTENNIAES PERMANENT MONUMENT
                While the written history project brought large numbers of local residents to work remembering and
                    sharing their town's past, it was by constructing a log cabin in downtown 
                        LaPorte
                     that centennial celebrants created the most concrete example of their town's
                    heritage. LaPorteans proposed to recreate the home of George Thomas, 
                        LaPorte's
                     first county clerk, where county leaders had met for the first time in 1832. Rebuilding
                    this cabin gave a specific date of commemoration for the centennial celebration, but the symbolism
                    extended far beyond historical reality. Because 
                        LaPorte's
                     earliest industry was the sawmill opened by the Andrew brothers in 1832, log cabins
                    within 
                        LaPorte
                     were rare. By the first decades of the twentieth century, Americans had attached highly
                    symbolic meanings to log cabins, celebrating them as symbols both of settlers' stamina and
                    hard work and of their primitive way of life and the hardships they faced. When centennial boosters
                    planned a log cabin as the symbol of their town's heritage, they were embracing the
                    national 
                        22Edith Backus, quoted in "Committee Decides to Complete Work
                            Started by Dr. H.H. Martin," LaPorte Herald-Argus, July 7, 1934;
                            Dorothy Rowley, interviewed by the author, October 23, 1988, February 18, 1992. The
                            completed history, "
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            : History of the First Hundred Years, 1832-1932," ed. Edith J. Backus,
                            exists in bound typescript copies of two different dates (1938, 1982), in four volumes;
                            hereafter cited as "
                                LaPorte
                             History," ed. Backus.
                    
                     myths associated with the cabin as well as promoting awareness
                    of their town's pre-industrial history.23
                Several early cabins existed in 
                        LaPorte County
                     as of 1932, but rather than restore one of these structures, the organizers of the
                    centennial chose to construct a new one that would better fit their expectations of what the Thomas
                    cabin should have looked like. Noted local architect George Allen conceived a building based more on
                    American myth than on research into 1830s cabins in northwest 
                        Indiana
                    , a nod to community-conceived heritage rather than actual historical fact. The
                    materials used were symbolic, too. Centennial organizers looking for materials from which to
                    construct the reproduction reused logs from Edward Rumely's abandoned Interlaken School
                    gymnasium, just north of the city. In salvaging pieces from the recently razed gym, the local
                    Unemployment Relief Committee transmuted a local symbol of industrial training and Progressive Era
                    ideals into a celebration of pre-industrial heritage. Edith Backus later pointed out that while it
                    had taken six weeks for the men of 1932 to build the copy, the pioneers of 1832 had built the
                    original in a day.24
                Despite its rough exterior, the new cabin would have been luxurious by 1832 standards. Local
                    residents loaned furnishings for the centennial celebration, including items used by pioneers in 
                        LaPorte
                     as well as antiques belonging to other 
                        LaPorte
                     families. A few weeks before the dedication of the cabin, Martin announced that a
                    direct descendant of Thomas who did not live in the county would lend two items from the original
                    cabin, and that enthusiastic lenders had already provided enough antiques to furnish several cabins.
                    The list of artifacts shows that the celebrators of the centennial had a great deal more items to
                    choose from for their display than the Thomas family had likely owned when moving in. Among the
                    artifacts on display were some telling anachronisms, such as a portrait of Abraham Lincoln, the
                    "log cabin president," who would have been unknown to 
                        LaPorte's
                     settlers in 1832. The loca- 
                        23On log cabins in American culture, see Mac E. Barrick, "The
                            Log House as Cultural Symbol," Material Culture, 18 (Spring
                            1986), 1-19; Henry Glassie, Vernacular Architecture (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 2000), 32-34, 166.
                        24George Allen, "Architectural History of 
                                LaPorte
                            " and Edith J. Backus, "Centennial Log Cabin and Permanent
                            Marker of Miriam Benedict Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution," in "
                                LaPorte
                             History," ed. Backus, 1108-13, 1991.
                    
                    
                    
                        A crowd gathers to dedicate the reconstructed log cabin of George Thomas,
                            September 12, 1932
                            
                                LaPorte County
                             commissioners held their first meeting in Thomass cabin. Because the original
                            cabin had been replaced by the New York Central Railroad Station (visible at far right),
                            this relatively luxurious reconstruction depicted how LaPorteans thought the cabin should
                            have looked. Courtesy of the LaPorte County Historical Society
                     tion of the cabin also had to fit into the world of 1932. The original site, according to
                    most sources, was presently occupied by the New York Central Railway station; the structure built
                    for the commemoration was placed just south of the station in a small wooded park owned by the
                    railway. Historical accuracy bowed to economics.25
                Ironically, the newly constructed cabin soon acquired symbolic meaning as a memento of the
                    commemoration. Original plans had called for a large boulder and plaque to serve as the permanent
                    monument of 
                        LaPorte's
                     first hundred years. At least one person suggested that the cabin be sold to the
                    highest bidder after the celebration. But LaPorteans embraced the reconstructed building, in much
                    the same way that tourists soon forgot which of Colonial Williamsburg's buildings were
                        
                        25"Descendant of Geo. Thomas to Attend Centennial
                            Rite," LaPorte Herald-Argus, August 31, 1932. For a list of the
                            items displayed in the cabin see the official program of the celebration, 
                                    LaPorte
                                 Centennial, 1832-1932 (
                                LaPorte
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1932), 25-27.
                    
                     "real" or ignored the historical anachronism
                    and geographic confusion of Henry Ford's Greenfield Village. A portion of the funds raised
                    during the centennial was dedicated to making the structural improvements necessary to allow the
                    cabin to stand permanently.26
                The cabin dedication ceremony and parade on September 12 praised the spirit of early pioneers and 
                        LaPorte's
                     founding fathers, although again the emphasis rested on symbolism rather than historic
                    accuracy. The parade to the site carried "old settlers"-all residents of 
                        LaPorte
                     over eighty years old as well as residents of the Ruth Sabin Home, a retirement home
                    for women. A day earlier, "[q]uite by accident," a stagecoach had arrived in 
                        LaPorte
                     on a trek from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Los Angeles
                    ; it was included in the parade. After the stagecoach, seven men-dressed in beaver hats,
                    silk toppers, Prince Albert coats, and boots-rode in on horseback. The men represented the five
                    original owners of the land on which LaPorte was located, as well as George Thomas and John B.
                    Niles, the city's first attorney.27 Two young girls fol- lowed the
                    "founders," one representing Catherine P. Andrew and the other "The Hope
                    of Another Century."28
                The parade and dedication of the cabin provided the strongest affirmations of civic leadership and
                    "great man" history in the entire centennial celebration. The choice of the seven
                    men-one of whom had not arrived until the year after the founding-served to stress the her- itage of
                    the existing social order. The inclusion of the two young girls likewise reveals a great deal about
                    LaPorteans' use of the past. One of the town's oldest and longest residents,
                    Catherine Andrew, had come to LaPorte in 1833 at age eight and lived there until her death at age
                    100 in 1925. While her life had come to symbolize the early years of the town for some, the
                    day's celebration involved little other mention of the town's "founding
                    mothers." As historian Mary Ryan found in her study of nine- teenth-century parades in New
                    York, women were often relegated to positions of domestic or anti-political symbols: "Their
                    status as the 
                        26"Complete Program for Centennial Announced," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 6, 1932; Backus, "Centennial Log
                            Cabin," in "LaPorte History," ed. Backus, 1989.
                        27Niles did not arrive in LaPorte until 1833, and therefore would have
                            had nothing to do with the events of 1832. One explanation for this anachronism may lie in
                            the fact that his descen- dants still lived in the city and were socially prominent. By
                            contrast, most of the original own- ers had not stayed in LaPorte.
                        28"1,500 Present at Opening Rite," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 13, 1932.
                    
                     quintessential 'other' within a male-defined
                    cultural universe made [women] perfect vehicles for representing the remote notions of national
                    unity and local harmony."29 The choice of the young girls perhaps
                    continued this ideal in twentieth-century 
                        LaPorte
                    , stressing domesticity and local harmony as the key factors in overcoming the hardships
                    of the Depression.
                DEMOCRATIZING HERITAGE: LEISURE CELEBRATING HISTORY
                In the early twentieth century, communities throughout the 
                        United States
                     combined new patterns of leisure activity with celebrations of local history as a way
                    to draw larger numbers of citizens into the celebration of their local heritage. Once the playground
                    of "old Americans" or the newly wealthy who wanted to be perceived as such, local
                    history became democratized as large numbers of average Americans tied historical commemoration into
                    the activities they enjoyed in their leisure hours. Civic leaders intended these events to educate
                    as well as celebrate the established social order, yet through this combination of leisure and
                    commemoration, new groups of stakeholders, with new perceptions of community heritage, challenged
                    traditional methods of historical production. 
                        LaPorte's
                     celebration followed that pattern, but did so at a moment of economic crisis and fiscal
                    uncertainty. Organizers acknowledged the benefit of celebrating a community heritage that included
                    leisure. "Me for 
                        LaPorte
                    ," the "official song of the centennial," invoked images of
                    local pastimes as it celebrated the town's heritage. While civic leaders sought to
                    celebrate the patriots and pioneers who had established the town, the popular celebration-summed up
                    in the song- evoked a nostalgia for summer days, fall sports, and familiar scenes of leisure
                    activity connected to community.30
                
                    29Mary Ryan, "The American Parade: Representations of the
                        Nineteenth-Century Social Order," The New Cultural History, ed. Lynn
                        Hunt (
                            Berkeley
                        , 
                            Calif.
                        , 1989), 131-53. Dorothy Rowley recalled interviewing Andrew for the LaPorte High
                        School newspaper when the latter was 100 years old. "She didn't have to read
                        history, she had lived it," Rowley said. Rowley, interview by author, January 13, 1992.
                    30Fred Pitner and E. J. Leach, "Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        " (sheet music), in 
                                LaPorte
                             Centennial, 1832-1932, 30-31. The chorus: "Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , When Summer's with us still,/ Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , on the Lakes and Summit Hill./ Out on dear old Pine with rod and line,/ when the
                        bass are bitin', then it's fine,/ And it's Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , Me for 
                            LaPorte
                        , for LaPorte, Where I long to be."
                
                
                Some activities were directly connected with boosters' hopes that the centennial could help
                    improve the town's economic outlook. Window shopping, that quintessential small-town
                    pastime, was combined with the celebration to draw people into 
                        LaPorte's
                     downtown. Local merchants, seeking to draw potential customers to the town center,
                    displayed antiques on loan from city residents and the centennial committees in their shop windows.
                    Displays included entire rooms of furniture from the homes of early settlers, photo displays, Civil
                    War weapons and posters, books, and an old wooden hand from the courthouse clock. Dorothy Rowley
                    recalled that the displays served more than an economic function, however, helping residents to get
                    their minds off the Depression. As a result, Rowley states, "they were happier, easy
                        going."31
                The theme of democratizing heritage through leisure was expanded on the evening of September 12, when
                    a National Group Fete was held in 
                        LaPorte's
                     Civic Auditorium. Unlike many early twentieth-century public historical commemorations
                    that excluded ethnic and racial minorities, the fete celebrated the diversity that industrialization
                    had brought, even as it ignored the industries. In his review of the program, Herald-Argus reporter Robert Coffeen reported that "the sight . .. was not only
                    profoundly thrilling, but it formed one of the richest lessons the 
                        LaPorte
                     Centennial celebration has to offer." Among the performances listed on the
                    evening's program were "Old Man River," and "River Keep Away
                    from My Door," performed by Earl Crowe, "An Artist of International
                    Fame," with an African American chorus of twenty voices singing spirituals "in an
                    effective grouping that portrayed a scene on the dock of a southern plantation." While most
                    of LaPorte's centennial had emphasized the town's Protestant, Western European
                    founders, the National Group Fete featured not only the spiritual choir but residents of Greek,
                    German, Swedish, Italian, and Polish origin. Coffeen noted that the two-thousand-member audience
                    represented the town's population: "From all parts of the city they came, as many
                    from the Warsaw addition, perhaps, as Indiana avenue, as many from the Fifth ward as from east of
                    Park street."32
                
                    31"
                            LaPorte
                         is a Vast Museum; Rare Relics Displayed Here," LaPorte
                            Herald-Argus, September 14, 1932; Kammen, Mystic Chords of Memory,
                        299-527; Rowley interview, February 13, 1992.
                    32
                                LaPorte
                             Centennial, 1832-1932, 13; "Complete Program for Centennial
                        Announced," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 6, 1932;
                        "National Group Fete Thrills Big Audience," LaPorte
                    Herald-
                
                
                The following Saturday, the newspaper reported that "a gay city last night closed its
                    Centennial Celebration with a ball that for glamour and brilliance, distinction and democracy, was
                    truly an event of the century." The ball, according to the article, was attended by 3,500
                    people "who forgot there was a care in the world as long as 
                        LaPorte
                     had a 100th anniversary to celebrate and as long as the band played on."33 Although ostensibly celebrating local events of the last century, the
                    evening's entertainment took on a more generally historical character. The ball began with
                    a Mozart minuet, danced by children wearing colonial costumes. Dancers enjoyed food served in lunch
                    baskets decorated to look like covered wagons, while hostesses symbolically merging their current
                    struggles with those faced by women in 
                        LaPorte's
                     past wore heirloom clothing passed down from their ancestors.34
                RECREATING A HERITAGE: THE CENTENNIAL PAGEANT
                
                        LaPorte's
                     historical pageant, held on Wednesday, September 14, 1932, brought together the central
                    themes of the centennial: the celebration of a carefully selected heritage that highlighted some
                    aspects of the community's history while ignoring others, the reminder that townspeople had
                    overcome earlier hard times through determination and community spirit, and the inclusion of large
                    numbers of local citizens as either participants or observers of the presentation of that story.
                    Historian Michael Kammen has written that "[a] veritable passion for historical pageants
                    persisted through the interwar years." At celebrations across 
                        Argus, September 13, 1932. The 1930 census reported that 
                                LaPorte
                                County's
                             population was 10.5 percent foreign-born, compared to a statewide average of
                            5.1 percent; 
                                Indiana
                             had an African American population that was 2.8 percent of the total, while 
                                LaPorte's
                             was 2.1 percent. This latter number, however, discloses a significant change in
                            the number of blacks counted in the census of 1930: the 1920 census reported that only 0.9
                            percent of the county's population was African American. U.S., Fifteenth Census, 1930: Vol. 3, Population, 706. Despite
                            extensive research in local, state, and national libraries and historical societies, Earl
                            Crowe remains unidentified.
                        33"Throng Attends Centennial Ball: 3,500 Jam The Auditorium
                            to See and Dance," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 17, 1932.
                        34Alberta M. Homann, "Costumes of Days Gone By Bring Breath
                            of 1832 Back to Brilliant Centennial Ball," LaPorte Herald-Argus,
                            September 17, 1932. For more on the use of heritage costumes in interpreting the past, see
                            Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, The Age of Homespun: Objects and Stories in the
                                Creation of an American Myth (
                                New York
                            , 2001).
                    
                     the 
                        United States
                    , pageants often included large numbers of participants and drew huge crowds, allowing
                    community boosters to select and interpret their heritage. 
                        LaPorte's
                     centennial celebrants followed that pattern, but did so in a way that reflected the
                    time of their celebration as much as it did the past they chose to celebrate.35
                Held in 
                        LaPorte's
                     Soldier's Memorial Park, "The Heritage of the Years" was
                    presented free to the public; centennial organizers stressed the large number of citizens involved
                    in both cast and audience. Reporter Forbes Julian noted in the next day's newspaper that "
                        LaPorte
                     unfolded the scroll of the years yesterday in animated, colorful pageantry which sent
                    imaginations darting back to days when the white man was a courageous stranger in the land on which
                    this community lies . . . . It was a pageant created by LaPorteans and presented by
                    LaPorteans." Julian, who estimated the size of the "good-natured crowd"
                    at 8,000, found an audience "expectant and eager to visualize what the heritage of the
                    years was. In every nook and corner of the park and along adjoining streets and roads, hundreds of
                    cars stood as a mute witnesses [sic] to the size of the throng."36
                The pageant began by associating the town's history with national and international themes.
                    As a chorus of three hundred voices sang "
                        America
                    , the Beautiful," a smoke screen rose behind it; at the conclusion of the
                    singing the smoke dissipated to reveal an idealized version of an Indian village where natives
                    celebrated a green corn ceremony, complete with chants, dances, ponies, and tomtoms. The
                    representation bore little resemblance to the reality of Potawatomi culture, but emphasized these
                    earlier peoples' ties to the fruitful land.37
                As Episode II begins, the Indians and their virgin land make way for the first influx of European
                    contact-Rene-Robert Cavelier de LaSalle and his men. Accompanied by a Catholic priest and Native
                    American guides, the French agents erect a cross and place 
                        France's
                    
                        35Kammen, Mystic Chords of Memory, 422-26; David
                            Glassberg, American Historical Pageantry: The Uses of Tradition in the Early
                                Twentieth Century (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N.C.
                            , 1990); "Pageants," in Encyclopedia of Local
                                History, eds. Kammen and Prendergast, 363.
                        36Forbes Julian, "
                                LaPorte
                             Story is Graphically Given Outdoors," LaPorte
                                Herald-Argus, September 15, 1932. A program is outlined in 
                                    LaPorte
                                 Centennial, 1832-1932, 15-19.
                        3Ruth M. Andrew (later Coffeen) and Donald Danielson, "The
                            Heritage of the Years," pageant script, "Centennial" file
                            (LaPorte County Historical Society Museum). The typescript is unpaginated, although a later
                            reader has added handwritten numbers to the pages.
                    
                    
                    
                        Episode II of the centennial pageant, September 14, 1932 In their
                            costumes, housing, and activities the "Indians" in the pageant bore little
                            historical resemblance to the Potawatomi who had lived in 
                                LaPorte
                             before 1838. Here they watch LaSalle sign a treaty. Courtesy of the
                            LaPorte County Historical Society
                     tri-colored flag beside it. While the episode includes several ahistorical
                    moments-including a flag that 
                        France
                     would not adopt until years later and Catholic hymns more a part of the early twentieth
                    century than the eighteenth-its anachronisms proved telling. By the 1930s, the town boasted three
                    Roman Catholic parishes, with congregants from a variety of ethnic origins. Through its early
                    emphasis on religion, the pageant ties these newer arrivals to the community's founding.
                    Likewise, for the men in the audience who had served in 
                        France
                     in the First World War, the French flag may have served as a symbol connecting their
                    own national military service with the adventures of the voyageurs. The third episode continues the
                    pageant's narrative of peaceful progress as LaSalle's men give way to British
                    soldiers shouting their allegiance to King George III. In a particularly enlightening moment, the
                    script explains, "Through the ensuing episode, the Indians are interested spectators
                    only." As Native Americans watch, the English plant their king's flag, shout
                    "Long live the King," and then give way to Spanish troops led by Don Eugenio
                    Pouree who reminds the audience, "This land is not without a Spanish claim."
                    Pouree heralds the contributions of Christopher Columbus, Hernando De Soto, and the 1781 battle
                    between British and Spanish forces at 
                        Niles
                    , before planting the Spanish flag beside those of the French and English. The imperial
                    characters then yield the stage as the scene comes to its conclusion: three figures-a drummer, flag
                    bearer, and fife player, the traditional characters of "The 
                        Episode III of the centennial pageant, September 14, 1932 The
                            pageant's juxtaposition of patriotic symbols, such as "The Spirit of
                            '76" (at right), with representations of hearty pioneers and their cabins
                            emphasized the community's ability to endure. Courtesy of the LaPorte County
                            Historical Society
                     Spirit of '76"-march forward to present the Betsy Ross flag to the
                    audience while the chorus and cast sing "My Country 'tis of Thee."
                    Through these easily recognized symbols, 
                        LaPorte's
                     story became a part of the national history.38
                The scenes that follow highlight 
                        LaPorte's
                     pioneer heritage. The fourth episode depicts the region's transition to white
                    land ownership by portraying the "Treaty with the Pottawottomies" in which Lewis
                    Cass and other leaders attempt to establish United States sovereignty in northwest Indiana. As
                    "O Pioneers" (Episode V) opens, the audience watches a white family attacked by
                    Indian warriors who swoop down, hurl a child over a nearby cliff, take its mother captive, pillage
                    their goods, and drive the family's wagon offstage. While Indian captivity tales were not
                    unheard of in the 
                        Indiana
                     Territory, the pageant uses symbols and stories more attuned to a constructed image of
                    white victims and 
                        38Andrew and Danielson, "The Heritage of the Years,"
                            3-6.
                    
                    
                    
                        Episode V of the centennial pageant, September 14, 1932 The 1829 arrival
                            of Widow Miriam Benedict and her family in 
                                LaPorte County
                             in 1829 is here dramatized; at right, a police officer maintains the line
                            between past and present. Courtesy of the LaPorte County Historical Society
                     Native oppressors than to local historical facts. The viciousness of the Indians and the
                    fate of their captives also set the stage for the next entrants to the pageant: first settlers
                    Miriam Benedict and her family. The time-honored tradition of Widow Benedict coming to 
                        Indiana
                     to acquire land and keep her fatherless family together places the community in the
                    debt of its founding mother, allowing pride in community heritage to intermingle with celebrations
                    of domesticity. As portrayed in the pageant, Benedict celebrates the land that will nurture her
                    family: "Here mother nature shows a smiling face/ These lands seem fertile nurtured by
                    these lakes/ The shelter of the trees will welcome be/ What say you if we stop and take root here?/
                    I see these prairies rich with fields of grain/ I see a genial people gather here/ For others come
                    when once we settle here." True to her prediction, Benedict's family is soon
                    joined by another group of hearty pioneers, who "halloo" her and settle nearby.
                    The scene unfolds as newly arrived Hoosiers share hospitality, fellowship, and a message for modern
                    spectators: "To you who live in safety and ease/ And profit from the conquest we once made/
                    We challenge you to guard our spirit well/ And in your breasts to let it burn again." The
                    scene, played before thousands of LaPorteans facing the first severe effects of the Great
                    Depression, once again related the message of 
                    
                        LaPorte's
                     heritage for its citizens: the past was hard too, but the town and its people
                        survived.39
                The pioneer episode ends with a cry carried by a rider across the stage: "The Indians-The
                    Indians-an uprising of the Indians-The Black Hawks are on the warpath." As the frantic
                    settlers begin to leave, a pioneer mother stops them: "Heed not this cry/ Stay guard your
                    homes/ I dare defy/ An Indian tribe/ To drive me out/ From my own land/ Stay staunch and brave/ Your
                    courage high/ We're in the right/ And right will never die."40
                This portrayal of the pioneer spirit was particularly significant for the 1932 exploration of the
                    town's heritage. The Black Hawk uprising, which led pioneer settlers to construct a
                    never-used fortification at nearby Door Village in 1832, was an historical moment celebrated by many
                    generations of 
                        LaPorte County
                     citizens as the area's great moment of military endeavor. The long-told tale
                    of a man from Fort Dearborn riding to the 
                        LaPorte
                     area to warn of the Black Hawk uprising came down through history as Northwest 
                        Indiana's
                     equivalent of Paul Revere's ride. The construction of the fort at Door Village
                    was remembered by speeches, plaques, and commemorations, a non-event to be remembered in much the
                    way that other towns commemorated local battles, attacks, or other moments of bravery. But the
                    retelling in 1932 was different. Instead of depicting the construction of the fort or the military
                    strength of the male pioneers, "The Heritage of the Years" once again placed a
                    heroine at the center of the stage, emphasizing the importance of the home, family, and land. One
                    can imagine the significance of the moment to audience members who were reading about foreclosures
                    in the Herald-Argus or living through them themselves. As the first half of the pageant ends,
                    "the pioneers drop down on their knees in attitudes of prayer and thanks giving"
                    as the chorus intones "Lead, Kindly Light."41
                The sixth episode of the pageant graphically depicts the themes of domesticity, quaint early settler
                    customs, and the struggles of the past in the story of 
                        LaPorte's
                     official founding. Pioneers place a rough table and Windsor chairs at stage right, as 
                        LaPorte's
                     "five founders"-the name customarily given to James and Abram Andrew,
                    Walter Wilson, Hiram 
                        39Ibid., 9-11.
                        40Ibid., 11.
                        41Ibid.
                    
                     Todd, and John Walker-ride in. Portraying the five land
                    investors-three of whom never settled in 
                        LaPorte
                     itself-required tact on the part of the pageant's authors (one of whom was a
                    descendant of the families of two of the men). At best, history might recall these
                    "founders" as real estate investors; at worst, the town might look at them as
                    absentee landlords, a potentially powerful symbol in a town where foreclosures were regular items in
                    local records and the newspaper. Instead, the moment of the town's incorporation became a
                    watershed in the heritage of the town's institutions: the five discuss where they will
                    build a church, a school, and a court of law "where justice can be won."42
                A scene set at the new town's first land auction juxtaposes the founders with a new breed of
                    villains: "Several land speculators have entered who by their dress reveal themselves as
                    strangers. They are regarded by the rest with distrust." The scene that follows transforms
                    the five founders from real estate investors into patriarchal protectors of the town. One of the
                    strangers "is seen talking to Widow Benedict with threatening attitude; an argument ensues
                    and she runs to John Walker, who comforts her and promises to help." As the auction begins,
                    Miriam Benedict bids $1.25 per acre for her land; when one of the "strangers"
                    attempts to outbid her, Walker knocks him aside. He addresses the crowd: "Widow Benedict
                    was first to come/ into this wilderness to make her home[.]/ Now in return for courage such as hers/
                    Shall she be robbed thus of her heritage?" The script indicates that the crowd yells
                    "No-justice to Widow Benedict" and "Down with these
                    speculators." Walker then says, "Show me the man that would now thus outbid/ This
                    widow who by days of honest toil/ Has paid a heavy price for this her land./ Show me the man,
                    I'll kill him where he stands." The crowd lays upon the dishonest land speculator,
                    who escapes over a nearby hill. Walker then addresses the crowd: "It is time Congress took
                    action and protected us from the depredations of shyster speculators such as he. If Congress
                    continues in her neglect, in order to secure our right we shall hereafter adopt such measures as may
                    be necessary effectually to secure just claims." As Walker concludes his speech, settler
                    Charley Cathcart rides in, brandishing an order from President Andrew Jackson that gives each
                    settler who has made improvements on his land the chance to buy 
                        42Ibid., 12-15.
                    
                     it at a set price. The crowd rejoices, shouts
                    "hurrah," and sings a Hoosier folk song as the episode concludes.43
                The sixth episode of "The Heritage of the Years" presents perhaps the
                    celebration's clearest response to the struggles of Depression-era 
                        Indiana
                    , demonstrating how connecting past and present can serve as a balm for economic crisis
                    and community insecurity. As the scene opens, a line of Indians passes through the outdoor stage,
                    representing the removal of Native Americans on the Trail of Tears and emphasizing the inevitability
                    of the progress that led to the town's creation and survival. LaSalle and his men then
                    confess that the French came "for wealth and lust for land" that, juxtaposed with
                    the founders' goals, could not be sustained: "But you came with other thought/ In
                    this land a home you sought/ Here you broke and tilled the soil,/ So won the day./ Through history
                    man appreciates/ The countless virtues home creates/ Through faith in God and in your home/ You
                    builded well." 
                        LaPorte's
                     existence thus comes to be associated with devotion to home, family, and religion-while
                    conflict, war, and land grabs recede in the distance.44
                The lines spoken by British soldiers who take their place alongside the French transform the
                    revolutionary history of the Old Northwest into a historical justification of the status quo:
                    "This heritage of liberty/ Must holy seem and cherished be/ And by the laws that it
                    creates/ You must abide./ For only through respect for law/ Can liberty exist at all./ The rule of
                    kings withdraws at last/ And you are free." The pioneer family reminds the audience that
                    "Now profiting by all endured/You live at ease."45
                As the pioneers yield the stage to "a half dozen or so couples dressed in the fashion of the
                    Civil War" the pageant takes a thematic turn. Fiddlers play the Virginia Reel and the
                    characters begin to dance, soon to be interrupted by "[a]n old negro in shackles . . .
                    followed by two soldiers, one in blue and one in gray." The blue-clad soldier blows a call
                    to arms, and the cast erupts into a chorus of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
                    "During the singing the shackles of the negro are broken by 
                        43Ibid., 14-15. Walker's appeal likely rang familiar to the
                            LaPorteans watching the pageant. In the weeks that led to the centennial celebration, the
                            Herald-Argus was full of demands for national governmental actions to aid Depression-weary
                            citizens. See "Federal Relief for Jobless is Near Showdown," LaPorte Herald-Argus, February 10, 1932; Herald-Argus February
                            11, September 15, 1932.
                        44Andrew and Danielson, "The Heritage of the Years,"
                            20.
                        45Ibid., 20-21.
                    
                     the soldier in blue and the negro falls to his knees in
                    Thanksgiving with arms outstretched and face uplifted while the Blue and the Gray join
                        hands."46
                This recollection of the Civil War proves particularly rich in meaning. The town had been actively
                    involved in the Union cause, and like most other small towns had made celebration of its
                    veterans' participation a central part of its local history. But the images that centennial
                    celebrants chose to recollect were remarkable. As historian David Blight has shown, by the early
                    twentieth century most commemorations of the war had come to exclude any mention of slavery or race.
                    Because the Northwest Ordinance had outlawed slavery in the territory, 
                        LaPorte
                     had no history of it. That the pageant emphasized the Southern theme and image through
                    the Reel, and then portrayed slavery as embodied by one man in shackles, shows a national rather
                    than local memory. Like many other recollections of the Civil War across the 
                        United States
                    , LaPorteans emphasized post-war reconciliation, rather than specific actions,
                    enlistments, battles, or outcomes of the war. But while 
                        LaPorte's
                     centennial followed that trend, it portrayed abolition in ways that many contemporary
                    celebrations did not. Unlike many local and national events, 
                        LaPorte
                     added a central if subservient role for African Americans to its public
                        commemoration.47
                The Civil War proves to be the beginning of modern 
                        LaPorte
                    , closely connected in theme and action to the events that follow. Veterans of the
                    Spanish American War and the World War enter and drill before the audience as the Union soldier
                    reminds them that "These men for you have paid a price/For you they made all sacrifice/How
                    dear then must this country be/That thus they bought [sic? Fought?]." The military men give
                    way to a spectrum of contemporary average citizens, from a farmer following his plow and team to
                    "a figure representing industry. He is clothed in blue overalls and wears a
                    workman's jacket. He carries a pick and dinner pail." In its last page-indeed in
                    the last minute of public commemoration-the pageant finally acknowledges the industrial 
                        46Ibid., 21-22.
                        47David W. Blight, Race and Reunion: The Civil War in
                                American Memory (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 2001). The 1930 census listed 
                                LaPorte
                                County's
                             African American population at 1,284 (2.1%), 
                                LaPorte's
                             at 127 (0.8%), in contrast to 
                                Indiana's
                             statewide percentage of 3.5%. 
                                U.S.
                            , Fifteenth Census, 1930: Vol. 3, Population, 703, 706, 716. Sadly, no photographs of this part of the episode
                        remain.
                    
                     workers who were such a central part of the town's
                    history. But rather than being himself the product of historical forces-forces that seemed to be the
                    cause of contemporary crises-the worker appears simply as local citizen, natural descendant of the
                    pioneers, soldiers, and families who had struggled to build the town. The worker reminds the
                    audience: "The joy of work is highly prized/ For through these years we have recognized/
                    That progress comes through days of toil/ And industry./ Development in this we see/ From simple
                    farm and factory/ To busy plants that through their power/ Help build the town."48
                As the pageant concludes, figures representing the arts, law, and medicine join the worker at center
                    stage, while a character explains: "The pioneers who settled here/ Brought high ideals to
                    combat fear/ Men of culture wise and true/ They knew the right./ Though they have long since passed
                    away,/ Their high ideals still live today, / And in 
                        LaPorte
                     let us maintain/ Nought but the best." As the contemporary figures leave the
                    stage, the 
                        LaPorte
                     City Band enters playing "The Star Spangled Banner," while the
                    audience joins, singing.
                HERITAGE TRANSFORMS 
                        LAPORTE'S
                     HISTORY
                After the pageant concluded, downtown store owners removed their relics and returned to business, but
                    the effects of the celebration lingered. On the day of the pageant the Herald-Argus editorialized that "[1]ike every other community 
                        LaPorte
                     did need and does need activities and interests to take its collective mind away from
                    its troubles. When it can do that the barometer of feeling rises from morose to cheerful and if the
                    slump back to despondency does come its low levels are never quite as deep as before the stimulation
                    of common interest. The Centennial has already served to raise the barometer."49
                Other events would change the mood in 
                        LaPorte
                     as well. During the week of the centennial festivities, the photographs of thousands of
                    LaPorteans watching their fellow townspeople reenact their history vied for front-page newspaper
                    coverage with President Herbert Hoover's troubling announcement that Americans should
                    "see that no one is hungry" during the upcoming "last winter of this
                    great calamity." The Herald-
                    
                        48Andrew and Danielson, "The Heritage of the Years,"
                            23.
                        49"Importance of the Centennial," LaPorte Herald-Argus, September 12, 1932.
                    
                    
                    Argus emphasized local solutions to the economic crisis, but on November 8, 1932,
                    townspeople departed from 
                        LaPorte's
                     Republican traditions and joined the majority of 
                        United States
                     citizens in electing Franklin D. Roosevelt as president. Herald-Argus
                    city editor Forbes Julian editorialized the next day that "[a] devastating tornado of
                    Democratic votes swept the entire Republican ticket into overwhelming defeat at the polls yesterday
                    in 
                        LaPorte County
                    ."50 Roosevelt, of course, did not end the Depression
                    immediately upon taking office in 1933, but the psychological transformation that the New Deal
                    brought to 
                        LaPorte
                     became immediately evident in the pages of the local newspaper and in the records of
                    the town and county government. Within a week, LaPorteans rushed to deposit a quarter of a million
                    dollars in their reopened banks. By September, the county commissioners-who only one year earlier
                    had run out of buyers for local civic bonds-noted peti- tions to the National Recovery
                    Administration for $397,452 to cover relief works. 
                        LaPorte
                     residents ceased viewing the Great Depression as a local responsibility and began to
                    recognize its national nature, causes, and solutions.51
                The change in circumstances bore implications for 
                        LaPorte's
                     heritage as well. In 1932 residents did not have the means to publish their written
                    history, but they did continue working on it. By 1938 the project was ready to be bound and
                    preserved in libraries around the region. The intervening years had witnessed a revival of the
                    town's industries; the completed volumes contained entries describing this part of 
                        LaPorte's
                     past that had been omitted from commemoration on the eve of the New Deal.52 City officials turned the reconstructed Thomas log cabin over to the local Girl Scout
                    troop, and it became a place in which to enjoy living 
                        50See, for example, LaPorte Herald-Argus, September
                            15, November 9, 1932. My thanks to Jessica Jacko and Monicah Fratena of the LaPorte County
                            Public Library for their help in locating this information.
                        5LaPorte Herald-Argus, March 14, 16, 17, 1933;
                            LaPorte County Commissioners Minutes, September 16, 1932, January 9, June 30, September 15,
                            1933.
                        5Backus's final 2,039 pages of typed text-with a 166-page
                            index and 93 illustrations-was duplicated seven times and each copy bound in four volumes
                            (each set weighed 18 pounds). The history contained numerous articles on each period of 
                                LaPorte
                             history and chapters on each club, lodge, service organization, church, school,
                            civic institution, and area of merchan- dising in the city's history. Also included
                            were many biographies, a reproduction of the 1840 journal of 
                                LaPorte
                             resident John Sutherland, and a study of 
                                LaPorte
                             in the census of 1830. "Centennial History of 
                                LaPorte
                             Finished," LaPorte Herald-Argus, January 17, 1938.
                            See also LaPorte Herald-Argus, April 18, 1932, July 7, 1934. Additional
                            photocopies of the typescript
                    
                     history long after the centennial had ended-in fact, long after
                    passenger trains stopped arriving at the New York Central Railroad station nearby. Still standing
                    today, the cabin survived the "progress" of the late twentieth century that
                    destroyed several structures that had stood since 
                        LaPorte's
                     founding.
                In April 1933, Herald-Argus reporter Robert Coffeen commemorated the Belle Gunness
                    case by writing its history on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the fire-establishing an annual
                    tradition the newspaper continued for decades to come. Coffeen's article was included in
                    the centennial history, and his wife, Ruth Andrew Coffeen, finally "domesticated"
                    the story in 1947 when she told the tale in verse set to the tune of the popular Andrews Sisters
                    song "Pistol Packin' Mama": "They looked for her in 
                        Texas
                    / in sunny 
                        Tennessee
                    / They sought her most/ From coast to coast/ O where, O where was she?/ The answer to
                    this question/ Is one we now can tell/ By [year of performance]/ She'll surely be/
                    A-roastin' down in Hell."53 As the prosperity of the town
                    returned, Gunness became local folk legend-bizarre but no longer dangerous to people or to memory.
                Over the past seventy-five years the decisions made by centennial commemorators have continued to
                    echo throughout 
                        LaPorte's
                     history. The highlight of the city's sesquicentennial celebration in 1982 was
                    a Belle Gunness and Meinrad Rumely look-alike contest in which 
                        LaPorte
                     Mayor A. J. Rumely, Jr., won the competition for most resembling his grandfather.54 That same year, city planner John Rumely, the mayor's son, suggested
                    that the reconstructed Thomas cabin be torn down to make way for downtown parking. Dorothy Rowley,
                    the only volunteer of the 1932 celebration to also serve on the steering committee of the 1982
                    program, protested the destruction of the cabin that had told the story of the town' s
                    heritage to Depression-era citizens. Rowley-the unem- 
                        were prepared in connection with the city's 1982 sesquicentennial, but while the
                            previous for-profit histories of the town that celebrated the city's social and
                            industrial elite have been republished in recent decades, this expression from the pen of
                            ordinary LaPorteans has never been widely available.
                        53Ruth Andrew Coffeen, "The Ballad of Belle
                            Gunness," in Janet L. Langlois, Belle Gunness: The Lady Bluebeard (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1985), 147-48.
                        54Shortly after winning the contest, Rumely-a leading proponent of 
                                aPorte's
                             sesquicentennial celebration-and his wife Frances were tragically shot by a
                            mentally ill former city employee. Both died as a result of their injuries during the
                            sesquicentennial year.
                    
                     ployed secretary who had begun her sixty-year career as local
                    historian researching in old newspapers for the centennial history and who was now the unquestioned
                    expert on the town's heritage-recalled that she "stood up and told him that if he
                    tore it down I would come back and haunt him!" Time and tradition had lent historical
                    legitimacy to both the omissions and the constructions of 
                        LaPorte's
                     centennial commemoration.55
                
                    55Dorothy Rowley, interview by author, February 21, 1992. See also Rowley,
                        "She Put 
                            LaPorte
                         on the Map."
                
            
            
            
                Not Southern Scorn but Local Pride The Origin of the Word Hoosier and 
                        Indiana's
                     River Culture
                JONATHAN CLARK SMITH
                Discovering the origins of 
                        Indiana's
                     mysterious nickname "hoosier" requires a knowledge of when the word
                    first came into use. Most standard reference works (including the Oxford English
                        Dictionary) erroneously cite as the first known writing of the word a letter written in 
                        Missouri
                     in 1826.1 The error is significant because such an early reference,
                    from a site so far west, gives credence to the assumption of Jacob P. Dunn (writing roughly a
                    hundred years ago) that the word had been a term of contempt in general use in the South before it
                    became specific to 
                        Jonathan Clark Smith is professor of English, Hanover College, 
                                Hanover
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            .
                        1J. A. Simpson and E.S.C. Weiner, eds., The Oxford
                                English Dictionary, 2nd ed., 20 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 7:372. See also Robert K. Barnhart, ed., Chambers
                                Dictionary of Etymology (
                                Edinburgh
                            , 1988), 490; J. E. Lighter, ed., Random House Historical
                                Dictionary of American Slang, Vol. 2 (
                                New York
                            , 1997), 148; The American Heritage Dictionary of the English
                                Language, 4th ed. (
                                Boston
                            , 2000), 845; and Robert Hendrickson, ed., The Facts on File
                                Encyclopedia of Word and Phrase Origins, 3rd ed. (
                                New York
                            , 2004), 357. "Current" entries at Wikipedia.org,
                            Dictionary.com, the Oxford English Dictionary (http://www.oed.com) and the
                                Online Etymology Dictionary (http://www.etymonline.com/) repeat the
                            error. The Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 296, states enigmatically that the word "has been found in its
                            present-day meaning of Indianan as far back as 1829."
                    
                     inhabitants of 
                        Indiana
                    .2 Dunn's work is still regarded as the most authoritative
                    on this topic, and his assumptions form the basis for current conventional wisdom.3 While my own research is more indebted to Dunn's than at odds with it, my findings
                    also demonstrate that his fundamental assumptions about the age and generalized use of the word bear
                    questioning. In particular, my discovery of two previously unnoticed print references helps refocus
                    attention on details that suggest that the term originated around 1830 with specific reference to
                    Indiana farmer-river boatmen; the more generalized and contemptuous use came later.
                The frequent reference to the 
                        Missouri
                     letter of 1826 is decisively misleading because the letter was actually written in
                        1846.4 The manuscript-which is extant and has for some time been correctly
                    catalogued in the manuscript collection of the Indiana State Library-bears in large letters at the
                    top the town and county of its origin: 
                        Oregon
                     in 
                        Holt County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    . 
                        Holt County
                     was organized in 1841, and the town of 
                        Oregon
                     was newly named in the same year.5 The letter writer, James Curtis,
                    did write "1826" as the date, but this was clearly a slip, perhaps influenced by
                    his having just written the day as "2/24."
                Although Dunn felt confident that evidence corroborating his assumption of an early
                    nineteenth-century southern origin would steadily accumulate, it never has.6 For
                    a full century since Dunn's time, researchers have examined a host of period letters,
                    journals, papers, and published works-many prepared by observers keenly interested in 
                        2Though Dunn began publishing his findings in newspapers in 1902, they
                            are compiled in Jacob Piatt Dunn, "The Word Hoosier,"
                                
                                    Indiana
                                 and Indianans, 5 vols. (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), 2:1121- 55.
                        3Jeffrey Graf comprehensively documents both authentic sources and
                            popular theories in "The Word Hoosier"
                            (http://www.indiana.edu/-librcsd/internet/extra/hoosier.html). Graf writes: "The
                            best evidence . . . suggests that 'Hoosier' was a term of contempt and
                            opprobrium common in the upland South and used to denote a rustic, a bumpkin, a countryman,
                            a roughneck, a hick or an awkward, uncouth or unskilled fellow." And, paraphrasing
                            Dunn's analysis: "[The word] had long been used in the south as a
                            derogatory term for a rough countryman."
                        4James Curtis to Thomas Beeler, February 24, 1846, box 1, folder 2,
                            Joseph Beeler Papers (L 14), Manuscript Section (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). This was first revealed to me by Eric Mundell, head of reference services for
                            the Indiana Historical Society, in response to my inquiry about the letter. 5After reviewing an early draft of this article, Graf confirmed in the census records
                            for 1830 and 1840 that the letter's author lived in 
                                Indiana
                             in both those years. Graf, "The Word Hoosier."
                        6Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1153-55. The sentiment is
                            also apparent in the Chicago Tribune's story (June 2, 1949) about
                            the discovery of the "1826" letter which concludes, "So far, so
                            good. A few more years of digging for old letters in attics may solve the hoosier
                            problem."
                    
                     regionalisms and language quirks-but not a single reference to
                    the word "hoosier" has been found before February 11, 1831.7
                If indeed "hoosier" was coined closer to 1830 than previously supposed, then more
                    weight must be given to an 1833 attempt by a 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspaper editor to explain the word's origin: "The appellation of
                    Hooshier has been used in many of the Western States, for several years, to designate, in a good
                    natural way, an inhabitant of our sister state of 
                        Indiana
                    ." The author notes that " [m]any of our ingenious native philologists
                    have attempted, though very unsatisfactorily, to explain this somewhat singular term." The
                    writer provides two examples-one that a troop of Hussars were mistakenly called Hooshiers and the
                    other the familiar tale of surveyors being greeted with "Who's here?"-and
                    deems neither "deserving any attention." The author finally explains:
                    "The word Hooshier is indebted for its existence to that once numerous and unique, but now
                    extinct class of mortals called the Ohio Boatmen.-In its original acceptation it was equivalent to
                    'Ripstaver,' 'Scrouger,' 'Screamer,'
                    'Bulger,' 'Ring-tailroarer,' and a hundred others, equally
                    expressive, but which have never attained to such a respectable standing as itself." And
                    regarding the term's tie to 
                        Indiana
                    : "By some caprice which can never be explained, the appellation Hooshier
                    became confined solely to such boatmen as had their homes upon the 
                        Indiana
                     shore, and from them it was gradually applied to all the Indianians, who acknowledge it
                    as good naturedly as the appellation of Yankee."8
                Dunn dismissed the 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor's explanation as conjecture stemming from the probability, as Dunn saw
                    it, that the "rather rough-looking class of flat-boatmen" acquired an insulting
                    nickname as they traveled through the South.9 But the earliest cited use of the
                    generalized term in the South is 1836;10 so the available evidence suggests that
                    Dunn 
                        7An 1827 journal entry by Sandford Cox is often cited, but this cannot
                            be taken seriously as evidence. Cox's "Recollections," first
                            printed in the Lafayette Daily Courier in 1859, casually mixed the
                            purportedly original letters and journal entries with reflective editorial comments. The
                            reference to "Hoosier" at the very end of a piece is almost certainly the
                            latter, and the word is used nowhere else in the letters or journals. Sandford Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley (1859; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), 53.
                        8"Hooshier," Cincinnati
                            Republican, n.d., reprinted in [Indianapolis] Indiana Democrat,
                            October 26, 1833. Dunn reprints the entire article verbatim in "The Word
                            Hoosier," 1134.
                        9Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1135.
                        10Lighter, ed., Random House Historical Dictionary of
                                American Slang, Vol. 2, 148.
                    
                     may have had origin and effect reversed, and that the editor
                    was closer to the truth than he was.
                The earliest known reference, in fact, occurs in a February 11, 1831, letter written from 
                        Cincinnati
                     by G. S. Murdock, a rather hapless soul, who was desperately trying to impress one of
                    Indiana's more important early citizens, General John Tipton, then serving as Indian Agent
                    at the outpost of Logansport. Tipton had advertised for bids to deliver staples such as salt,
                    tobacco, iron, and steel to 
                        Logansport
                    , on the Wabash
                    River. Murdock's letter, written with both haste and flair, was not so much a
                    bid as a plea to be given a chance to do the job with a steamboat that was still being built (in
                    Cincinnati, which is, incidentally, a very long river trip from Logansport). He caps his appeal by
                    announcing that his new steamboat would be named "The 
                        Indiana
                     Hoosier."" These words are writ large and with evident pride, whether
                    real or faked convincingly for purposes of persuasion. It seems unlikely in this context that the
                    writer (writing from outside the state) would choose a term of contempt and opprobrium common in the
                    South to make a good impression on a leading citizen of 
                        Indiana
                    . The two unmistakable connections-to pride and to river transport-are consistent with
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor's attempt to explain the word's origin, just two years later.
                Indeed, all of the known print references appearing between the 1831 Murdock letter and the 1833
                    editorial prove consistent with a river-related term of pride, specifically attached to 
                        Indiana
                     farmers who depended on the waterways to sell produce and livestock. Most of these
                    documents are already recorded, and had been, for the most part, when Dunn was writing. I have
                    discovered two newspaper references from the same period not previously noted, the wording of which
                    I find significant. I will discuss both the previously known and the newly discovered items to
                    demonstrate the consistency of their context.
                The earliest known published use of the word was as a pseudonym in the June 25, 1831, issue of the
                        Lawrenceburg Palladium. The piece allegorically treats an upcoming
                    congressional election as a steamboat race, and its author calls himself
                    "HOOSHER," ostensibly in reference to the subject matter. Dunn cites this article,
                    adding that "the quotations 
                        11G. S. Murdock to John Tipton, February 11, 1831, box 7, folder 71,
                            John Tipton Collection (L 160), Manuscript Section (Indiana State Library).
                    
                     from [the Palladium] show that the word was
                    already being applied to 
                        Indiana
                     people."12 This is technically true, insofar as the writer
                    was an 
                        Indiana
                     person, but the author's pseudonym provides no indication that the word
                    applies to all Indianans. No other columns in contemporaneous issues use that pseudonym; its choice
                    clearly relates specifically to the steamboat theme.
                One week later, on July 2, 1831, the Wabash Herald published an article that also
                    satirized the upcoming election, but at greater length and employing the conceit of a horse race.
                    About the horse obviously representing Governor Noah Noble, the Herald's
                    columnist says, "[h]e has been corned, littered, and kept in 
                        Indiana
                     and may be called a 'Hoosher.'"13 Out of
                    context, the end of this sentence may seem to stem simply from the main clause.14 But virtually from the founding of the Herald, the newspaper had shared
                    with Governor Noble intense support for a canal connecting the Wabash River with Lake Erie thus opening northeast markets to 
                        Indiana
                     farmers.15 Noble's nickname comes from his support of the
                    canal, an identification made still clearer by the sentence preceding the Noble paragraph, which
                    states of one of Noble's opponents "that the flying banner floating on the
                        Wabash inscribed,
                        'Wabash and Erie
                        Canal' will be apt to freighten [sic] his rider and make him bolt."
                    Further connection between the word "hoosher" and support for the canal appears in
                    another section of the same article, not previously noted, presumably because Dunn cited only a
                    reprint of the article 
                        12"Steam Boat Racing," Lawrenceburg
                                Palladium, June 25, 1831; Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1154.
                        13"Sportsmen Attend," [
                                Rockville
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            ] Wabash Herald, July 2, 1831. The piece is undersigned by
                            "Jeremiah Sweepstakes" with the date June 10, and there is no reason to
                            question that as the date when it was first written or submitted. Two weeks previous, the
                            editors had mentioned receiving the piece but decided to defer publication of an item
                            "rather tart for the public palate." Wabash Herald, June
                            18, 1831. Their minds may have been changed by reading the Palladium
                            steamboat piece a week later. Incidentally, the Palladium was published in
                            eastern 
                                Indiana
                             near 
                                Cincinnati
                             while the Herald was published in western 
                                Parke County
                            . There seems to have been a steady correspondence between the editors of the
                            two papers.
                        14Many other people of the period (including Noble's
                            opponents) had lived in 
                                Indiana
                             for some time without acquiring the nickname. In fact, a long letter published
                            just over one month previous in the same newspaper extols 
                                Indiana
                             citizens but uses only the words "Indianians,"
                            "inhabitants of 
                                Indiana
                            ," or "people of 
                                Indiana
                            ." "Q in the Corner" to Mr. Editor, Wabash Herald, May 28, 1831.
                        15Founded in April 1831, the earliest extant issue of the paper is May
                            28, 1831, and contains a long editorial by "Richard," a long position
                            paper by Noble, and a report on a stump speech by Noble-all strongly advocating the
                                Wabash and Erie
                                Canal.
                    
                     in the Palladium, July 30, 1831, which
                    dropped the section.16 The original Herald article had covered
                    political races all the way down to congressional and state legislature contests not relevant on the
                    east side of the state. Discussion of the state senate race ("the Parke Senatorial
                    purse") employs the word "hoosher" three times with consistent
                    application to canal support. The first candidate, writes the Herald's
                    correspondent, "is called the 'Canal Hoosher,' . . . and groomed by a
                    Jockey who wears a scarf with 'Wabash and Erie Canal, public faith kept
                    sacred,' printed in large capitals upon it.... Bets offered freely in his favor."
                    The second candidate has a strike against him in that he is "kept by a
                    'Railroad,' ... [and] it is thought that the canal banner floating at the
                    'Hoosher stable' . . . will impede his speed." The section concludes by
                    anticipating a good race "between him and the 'Canal
                        Hoosher.'"17 The theme of canal-railroad politics recurs
                    throughout this political allegory, and all four occurrences of the word "hoosher"
                    (including the reference to Noah Noble) are tied to support for the canal. It may be, in fact, that
                    the word's rapid rise from obscurity to popularity resulted from its association with a key
                    demographic group in the hottest issue of the era.
                The Herald carried another relevant article-not previously noted in the literature
                    on this topic-the following week. Authored by "Common Sense" and entitled
                        "The Wabash
                    River," the article argues that improvements will be needed to the Wabash River whether the canal is
                    completed or not, since the need for farmers to get to the Ohio River and on to points south would
                    remain in any case. I quote at some length to make clear the context in which the word
                    "hoosher" is introduced, with significant wording: Not
                        only the State of 
                            Indiana
                         but also the State of 
                            Illinois
                         requires that the obstructions should be removed from this river. The staple
                        articles of this as well as that State, seek a market on the coasts of the 
                            Mississippi
                         and in all probability will, for years to come; farmers who have their produce
                        ready to depart for a foreign market are now compelled to lay at anchor, until the flood gates
                        are hoisted on the Monongahela and Alleghany, to swell the 
                            Ohio
                        , and float her thousands to market, -
                            Pennsylvania
                        ,
                    
                        16Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1154.
                        17"Sportsmen Attend," Wabash
                            Herald, July 2, 1831
                    . 
                    
                            Virginia
                        , 
                            Kentucky
                        , and 
                            Ohio
                         have all had a passport ere the farmer of the Wabash can cut his cable in safety. What is
                        the consequence? The traders from those States have arrived at their destined ports in a propitious hour, have received a good price for this
                        produce, and return with a stiff knee, heavy purse and a light heart, while the "Hoosher's," (as the
                        boatsmen term them) are just escaping from the Wabash and going with a glut to a full market.18 With the parenthetical phrase "as the boatsmen term
                    them," this writer not only identifies the original meaning of "hoosher"
                    as a farmer-boat-man from 
                        Indiana
                     but also the word's origin in Ohio River commerce culture. The piece corroborates the February
                    1831 use of the word by Murdock (who was indeed a boatman), the June 1831 printing of the word in
                    association with steamboats, and the 1833 analysis by the 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor.
                Subsequent known printings (while the word presumably gained oral familiarity very quickly) remain
                    consistent with the river commerce context and the specific denotation of an Indiana farmer-boatman.
                    Dunn cites two examples from the first half of 1832. The first, a "Carrier's
                    Address" poem in the January 3 issue of the Indiana Democrat, intro-
                    duces the word (again, significantly, in quotation marks) in a lengthy if somewhat obscure passage
                    about the canal debate.19 The second example perfectly illustrates the
                    difference between Dunn's analysis and mine. A small, trivial piece appearing in the Northwestern Pioneer and St. Joseph's Intelligencer on April 4 concerns
                    an enormous sturgeon that left the more natural habitat of Lake Michigan to swim some distance up the 
                        18"The Wabash River," Wabash
                            Herald, July 8, 1831, emphasis in original.
                        19"Carrier's Address," Indiana
                                Democrat, January 3, 1832, as excerpted in Dunn, "The Word
                            Hoosier," 1153-54. Since a federal law granted lands for the Wabash and Erie Canal in 1827,
                            pro-canal forces looked to this law as a "promise" that the canal would be
                            built. The writer phrases the pro-canal position as "A full compliance with all
                            contracts" and emphasizes that "purchasers of Canal lands" are
                            clamoring for the canal to be built, while the "remote and sordid" people
                            from the southern part of the state (who, with access to the 
                                Ohio
                            , had less need of a canal) are more interested in keeping their taxes low. Less
                            clear is exactly what it means that these southerners "Ask for our
                            'hoosiers' good plantations." It may refer to some other specific
                            alternative political proposal, or it may just be a sarcastic way of saying these anti-tax
                            people want the "hoosiers" to stay put on their farms, operating a
                            plantation rather than a traveling commercial enterprise.
                    
                    
                    St. Joseph River before
                    it was caught. The article is headlined "A Real Hoosier." Dunn, noting that the
                    newspaper's editors John and Joseph Defrees hailed from 
                        Tennessee
                    , concluded that they were "no doubt familiar with the use of the word in the
                    South," and their using it implies that "the 'real Hoosier' was
                    a rough-looking individual, like the sturgeon."20 But the brief article
                    says nothing about the looks or demeanor of the unfortunate fish; it is entirely concerned with the
                    fact that an unaccustomed visitor has come up the St. Joseph from Lake Michigan-a concern which (on a more serious level) was a
                    near-obsession with the Defrees brothers. They had, in fact, left 
                        Tennessee
                     prior to their higher education, and had more recently migrated to 
                        South Bend
                     from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , which, the evidence suggests, was a much better place to have picked up the word
                    "hoosier." Like the newspapers discussed above, their 
                        South Bend
                     paper had been newly established virtually on the banks of a river, and with a strong
                    resolve to lobby for improvements to enhance river commerce. In fact, on January 19, 1832, John
                    Defrees was appointed secretary of a citizens' group formed explicitly to lobby (ultimately
                    unsuccessfully) for steamboat traffic from Lake Michigan all the way into 
                        South Bend
                    .21 Between its November 1831 founding and July 1832, the newspaper
                    printed increasingly excited articles and editorials about that possibility.22
                    One article cites a letter from John E Wright of 
                        Buffalo
                    , 
                        New York
                    , speaking of a nearly completed steamboat that the optimistic Wright hopes will arrive
                    on the St. Joseph by
                    the first of June-a close parallel to the form and purpose of the 1831 Murdock letter.23 The Defrees brothers, in short, were in the thick of the political milieu in which
                    "hoosier" first gained currency.
                
                    20Dunn, "The Word Hoosier,"1153.
                    21Logan Esarey, History of 
                                Indiana
                            , 3 vols. (
                            Dayton
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , 1923), 3:178; Timothy Edward Howard, A History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            , 2 vols. (
                            Chicago
                        , 1907), 1:226.
                    22Howard, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , 1:224-28.
                    23Northwestern Pioneer and St. Joseph's
                            Intelligencer, May 9, 1832, quoted in Howard, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , 1:228. Steamboat travel intertwined in a complex way with canal politics.
                            Lake Michigan may
                        not seem the best way to get from the Wabash to Lake Erie, but the paper took an expansive view of the
                        advantages of being connected to the "great inland seas," explaining that a
                        steamboat originating in 
                            Erie
                        , 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , could potentially arrive in 
                            South Bend
                         via Lake
                        Michigan. The newspaper also had a "Plan B"-in the absence of a
                        canal, the sixty-six-mile overland journey from 
                            South Bend
                         to the Wabash could function as a canal substitute. Howard, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , 1:227.
                
                
                The term's rapid progression out of that particular context into a general application to
                    the people of 
                        Indiana
                     seems to have begun on New Year's Day, 1833, with the publication of a John
                    Finley doggerel poem now known as "The Hoosier's Nest." In this paean to
                    "Blest 
                        Indiana
                    ," described as "this rising 'Hoosher'
                    nation," "Hoosher" is placed in quotation marks, suggesting both a new
                    word and a "buzz" word, and is first introduced in a political context:
                    "With equal tact the 'Hoosher' loons,/Hunt offices or hunt
                    raccoons." But, having established a "theme" of
                    "'Hoosher' manners," Finley's imagination carries him
                    into a description of a "'Hoosher's' nest," a humble
                    cabin for a large and provident family, with no explicit connection to the river or the canal
                        debate.24 Whether Finley was simply reflecting a generalization of the term
                    that was already taking place, or had created the chief stimulus for such a change (or, as is
                    likely, a combination of the two), just a week later 
                        Indiana
                     was toasted at a well-publicized event as the "Hooshier State."25
                It was perhaps inevitable that a funny-sounding state nickname would become a term of derision in
                    other places; and, given 
                        Indiana's
                     "backwoods" nature at the time, that its derisive meaning would
                    relate to rural or roughhewn qualities. But the word does not appear in print with a generalized
                    (i.e., non-
                        Indiana
                    ) and pejorative meaning until 1836; before that time (as far as can be demonstrated in
                    known evidence) it appears exclusively as a term of pride adopted by Indianans to apply to
                        themselves.26 Both the "Common Sense" writer in 1831 and
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor in 1833 imply that the word bore recent origins. Furthermore, to the best of my
                    knowledge, not a single person in the two different newspaper markets where the 
                        Cincinnati
                     piece appeared 
                        24John Finley, "Carrier's Address," Indiana Journal, January 1, 1833. No copy of this leaf, printed separately
                            from the newspaper, is known to exist. Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1123-27,
                            prints the poem from the poet's manuscript, which may not have matched the original
                            printing. The date has been variously given, but the poem's reference to Andrew
                            Jackson's recent re-election and the nullification crisis confirms the 1833 date.
                        25Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1127.
                        26This point could be partly disputed by citing Charles Fenno Hoffman,
                                A Winter in the West, 2 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 1835), 1:296: "The term 'Hooshier,' like that of
                            Yankee, or Buck-eye, first applied contemptuously, has now become a soubriquet that bears nothing invidious with it to the ear of an Indianian."
                            There is no way of knowing the basis of Hoffman's opinion that contemptuous use
                            preceded proud use, instead of vice-versa; he may be simply assuming an analogy with the
                            other two words mentioned. He does not, in any event, claim that the contemptuous use was
                            general before it was applied to Indianans.
                    
                     wrote in to say that parents or grandparents had used the word
                    long ago in the hills of 
                        Tennessee
                    . I know of no record of anyone, anywhere, claiming to have heard the word before the
                    late 1820s.27
                Thus, known evidence suggests a word of relatively recent coinage, sometime around 1830, associated
                    for some reason with Indiana flatboat or steamboat farmers, given currency by the Wabash-Erie Canal issue,
                    and then rapidly embraced statewide after a celebrated poem on the first day of 1833. All of this
                    remains consistent with the 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor's observation, in mid-1833, that many people were suddenly talking
                    about this nickname, and wondering where it originated.
                Of course this body of evidence still does not address where the word actually did
                    come from, or why it was peculiar to 
                        
                            Indiana
                        
                     farmers. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor, by listing several boasting terms-"'Ripstaver,'
                    'Scrouger,' 'Screamer,' 'Bulger,'
                    'Ring-tailroarer' "-allied himself implicitly with a story of a fight
                    among boatmen or other waterfront workers (such fights were everyday affairs), after which the 
                        Indiana
                     victor declared himself a "husher," or something similar. This story
                    has come down in several seemingly independent analogs, the most interesting of which is a brief
                    article by Oscar D. Short in 1929.28 Short identifies the actual fighter as
                    Aaron Short, the brother of his grandfather, and sets the scene at the Louisville and Portland Canal
                    construction site (which appears recurrently in these stories) and the date as 1830.
                    Short's article has been absolutely ignored at least since 1949, the time of the discovery
                    of the "1826" letter, which, if factual, would have made nonsense of the article.
                    But as of now no known facts contradict Oscar Short's version of the word's
                    origin, and its very existence and dating are worthy of some attention. Even if this particular case
                    is merely Aaron Short insinuating himself into a story he had heard second-hand, the set of cognate
                    stories about celebrated fights close to 1830 may (like cognate words) get us 
                        27See Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1130, for an
                            interesting recollection written in 1860, in which the writer begins with late 1824, but
                            adds "but it might have been as late as 1826 or 1827, when the Louisville and
                                Portland Canal was being made."
                        28Oscar D. Short, "Origin of the Term
                            'Hoosier,'" Indiana Magazine of History, 25
                            (June 1929), 101-103. See also Indianapolis Journal, January 16, 1860.
                            Dunn, "The Word Hoosier," 1130-33 quotes a fight story used as the chief
                            explanation in John Russell Bartlett, Dictionary of Americanisms: A Glossary of
                                Words and Phrases, Usually Regarded as Peculiar to the 
                                    United States
                                 (
                                New York
                            , 1848) and another fight story from Aaron Wood, Sketches of Things
                                and People in 
                                    Indiana
                                 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883).
                    
                    
                    
                        The Jolly Flat Boat Men, painted by George Caleb Bingham
                            (1846), engraved by Thomas Downey (1847) Though prepared nearly two decades after the
                            word Hoosier was coined along Indianas riverfront, Binghams work captures
                            the nature of the river life that gave rise to 
                                Indiana's
                             nickname. Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs
                        Division
                     closer to the common root. Indeed, a point in the fight story's favor arises in
                    its address of the perennial question of how the origins of a popular word could be so mysterious,
                    since the very witnesses to its coinage might disagree about what the speaker was trying to say,
                    even as the fame of the funny-sounding word spread rapidly.
                It no doubt frustrates the contemporary reader that this information brings us no closer to the
                    precise etymology of "hoosier," but my more specific concerns here have been to
                    identify the era in which the word came into popular use, and to uncover its original meaning. In
                    challenging the conventional paradigm of a southern insult going back many years, I have endeavored
                    to focus the search considerably. Obviously the word was in use before G. S. Murdock wrote it for
                    persuasive effect, and we need to examine closely river life around 1830 to determine how that use
                    began. This magazine recently published the 1834 journal of 
                        Indiana
                     boatman AsburyJaquess, who referred with easy familiarity to his fellow
                    "hoosiers"-fellow flatboat farmers from 
                    
                        Indiana
                    .29 By 1834, of course, he could have referred to anyone from 
                        Indiana
                     as a hoosier; but how long had he and his peers been using the term more specifically
                    for people exactly like themselves? The headnote introducing that journal quotes the Rev. Timothy
                    Flint writing, in 1828, that any boat then on the waterways "could produce a journal of no
                    inconsiderable interest." I can only say "Amen" to that.
                
                    29"The Journals of the Davy Crockett commencing December 20th
                        1834," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (March 2006), 8-24.
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                Jonathan Jennings
                        
                            Indiana's
                         First Governor By Randy K. Mills (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005. Illustrations, notes, select bibliography.
                    $19.95.)
                Jonathan Jennings (1784-1834) is best remembered as 
                        Indiana's
                     first governor and a five-term member of Congress, but he was also one of two top
                    leaders in the 
                        Indiana
                     Territory- his rival William Henry Harrison was the other. But Jennings has not fared
                    well with historians over the years; instead, as Randy Mills has noted, the politician's
                    reputation has plummeted from its pinnacle, when he was treated as the one who kept slavery out of 
                        Indiana
                    , to his current status as a "mediocre" leader or, worse, "a
                    weak-willed alcoholic" (pp. xi-xii).
                Neither extreme, of course, is accurate, and in this work, an early volume in the 
                            Indiana
                         Biography series recently launched by the Indiana Historical Society Press,
                    Mills provides the first full biography of a still enigmatic figure in the tumultuous world of 
                        Indiana
                     frontier politics. The author skillfully weaves his way through the limited
                    historiography on the man, supplemented by deep and thorough research into many relevant
                    contemporary sources-newspapers, published correspondence, memoirs, and travel accounts (but not
                    manuscripts)-and offers a useful, sympathetic portrait of a politician whose intemperance (also an
                    aspect of frontier politics) eventually ended his career prematurely.
                Along the way we learn of Jennings's arrival (from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) in the 
                        Indiana
                     Territory in 1806, his legal training, and his introduction to the public life of
                    Vincennes, then dominated by the Harrison group of 
                        Virginia
                     aristocrats and slave owners. Soon, however, Jennings withdrew to 
                        Charlestown
                    , in the eastern half of the state, where he rather improbably became the leader of the
                    territory's anti-slavery faction. As such he defeated Virginian Thomas Randolph in an upset
                    (and officially challenged) election for territorial delegate to  Congress, where he remained until the adoption of 
                        Indiana's
                     petition for statehood. Jennings continued in his leadership roles back home, serving
                    first as the president of the Constitutional Convention in 
                        Corydon
                     in 1816, and then as a two-term governor, 1816-1822. His public service, which also
                    included his controversial participation in negotiating the 1818 Treaty of St. Mary's (also
                    known as the New Purchase Treaty), concluded with election five times to the House of
                    Representatives, where he served from 1822-1831.
                Regrettably, however, there are a few flaws in the book-the curious omission of important details,
                    some problems with chronology, and frequent incomplete, undated citations to the published
                    correspondence. Even the date of Jennings's death, when first given (p. xxvi), is off by
                    two years, and there are at least two garbled sentences and well more than two misspellings and
                    grammatical errors. The omissions include the place of both Jennings's birth and death, and
                    information about his formal education. More significant, though, is the lack of context or basic
                    information (for example, about territorial government) that is necessary for an appreciation of the
                    role that Jennings played in it. Similarly, although Mills provides ample detail about the conduct
                    of political campaigns on the frontier, once he gets Jennings into office-either as governor or
                    member of Congress-we learn almost nothing about the issues of the day or any actions taken by the
                    incumbent beyond plans for the next "canvass."
                On the positive side, Jonathan Jennings: 
                            Indiana's
                         First Governor pro- vides an excellent introduction to the difficulties and
                    dangers of life on the frontier (especially chapter 2), and it offers fresh insights into the
                    characters of Harrison, "a calculating politician" (p. 42), and of the fussy,
                    insecure John Badollet, the land registrar at Vincennes. But the portrait of Jennings remains
                    indistinct and blurred; the man's personality, wracked by what Mills terms the
                    "disease" of alcoholism, and his achievements, once acknowledged by all, remain
                    unexplored. This book neither proves nor disproves Donald F Carmony's comment, in his
                    magisterial 
                            Indiana
                        , 1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (1998), that Jennings was 
                        Indiana's
                     "architect of statehood" (p.1).
                RALPH D. GRAY, professor emeritus of history at Indiana University-Purdue University
                    Indianapolis (IUPUI), is the author or editor of a number of works on 
                        Indiana
                    , including the forthcoming Meredith Nicholson: A Writing Life (2007),
                    a volume in the same series as this book.
            
            
            
                To Prefer Nothing to Christ Saint Meinrad Archabbey 1854-2004 Edited
                    by Cyprian Davis, OSB (
                        St. Meinrad
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Abbey Press, 2004. Illustrations, notes.)
                Founded in 
                        Spencer County
                     in 1854, Saint Meinrad Archabbey has long been an institutional and architectural
                    landmark in southern 
                        Indiana
                    . As one of several imposing Benedictine monasteries in the 
                        United States
                    , 
                        St.
                        Meinrad's
                    , an offshoot of the famous Benedictine Abbey of Maria Einsiedeln in 
                        Einsiedeln
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                    , enjoys a pride of place as archabbey of the Swiss Benedictine Confederation. Its
                    monastery-sponsored seminary has provided a steady stream of priests and religious who have served
                    the Catholic Church down through the years. The intellectual and cultural accomplishments of some of
                    its monks and alumni have contributed substantially to Catholic life in the 
                        United States
                    .
                One of the monastery's premier historians, Father Cyprian Davis, O.S.B., edited this
                    collection of essays to commemorate the monastery's sesquicentennial. While it lacks the
                    cohesiveness of a straightforward account, Father Davis's compilation does provide a number
                    of fascinating snapshots of different aspects of 
                        Saint
                        Meinrad's
                    . In addition to their competence in their respective areas of expertise, the
                    contributors, for the most part, bring a sensitivity to the deeper meaning of monastic life.
                Essays by Walker Gollar, Kevin Abing, Pedro Wolcan Olano, Joseph White, and Nathan Mitchell
                    accentuate the external works of the monks. Gollar unfolds the wider context of the
                    monastery's placement in southern 
                        Indiana
                    , providing a sense of the region's physical and social geography and of the
                    role of Swiss monks from far-off 
                        Einsiedeln
                     in creating their new foundation. Abing and Olano discuss the abbey's external
                    missions-one to the Sioux Indians, the other a two-year effort to establish a monastic foundation in
                    Colonia Suiza, 
                        Uruguay
                    . White, one of 
                        America's
                     leading scholars of the history of seminary education (and once a junior seminarian at
                    the monastery), explores the evolution of 
                        St.
                        Meinrad's
                     seminary program and provides an interesting window into the lives of hundreds of
                    priests trained there who served not only the monastery itself but also dioceses all over 
                        America
                    . Mitchell, a leading liturgical scholar and also a former monk of the archabbey,
                    discusses the efforts of Father Bede Maler in promoting a precursor of future liturgical renewal
                    through his efforts on behalf of the "Eucharistic Movement" and the
                    Priest's Eucharistic League (PEL).
                The remaining essays reflect "in-house" monastic history. Although each of these
                    essays is likely to be more appreciated by the monks of the 
                    abbey or other monastics, they nonetheless include inviting case studies for social, cultural, and
                    religious historians. Matthias Neuman, in his rather straightforward article on the monastic
                    chaplaincy to the Ferdinand nuns, narrates a story of an ever-increasing demand for autonomy on the
                    part of the nuns-a microcosm of similar dynamics occurring in other women's congregations
                    with male chaplains and, to some degree, among American women religious in general. Joel Rippinger,
                    the leading authority on Benedictine life in 
                        America
                    , discusses the career of Bishop Martin Marty, a founder of the abbey and later a
                    missionary bishop on the Great Plains. Davis's own essay, a superb case study of the
                    brick-and-mortar ethos of American Catholicism in the early twentieth century, identifies ways in
                    which Ignatious Esser's expansion of the monastery resembled the work of many other major
                    clerical leaders of the time. Edward Shaughnessy's account of the building of the
                    monastery's huge Romanesque Our Lady of Einsiedeln Church offers considerable evidence of a
                    building that aimed "to bring the old world into the new." Designed by the
                    little-studied but prolific Franciscan architect, Brother Adrian Wewer, the abbey church celebrated
                    the larger impact of the monastery as "old 
                        Einsiedeln
                     joined the American heartland." Harry Hagan's and Kim
                    Malloy's work on the interior decor and ecclesiastical furnishings opens the door wider
                    onto the inner world of Benedictine life and its effort to transfer the rich spiritual tradition of
                    European monasticism to America.
                Davis has done an admirable job of editing these essays. This collection reveals much about American
                    monasticism, American Catholic intellectual life, ethno-history, the evolution of Catholic
                    devotions, and liturgical life, architecture, and leadership. For 
                        Indiana
                     readers, it will become evident that the monks of 
                        St. Meinrad
                     were every bit as much Hoosiers as James Whitcomb Riley. As "lovers of the
                    place," they invested heart, soul, resources, and sweat into making southern 
                        Indiana
                     a home.
                STEVEN M. AVELLA is professor of history at Marquette University, 
                        Milwaukee
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            
            
            
                In Rare Form A Pictorial History of Baseball Evangelist Billy Sunday
                    By W A. Firstenberger (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of Iowa Press, 2005. Pp. xiii, 154. Illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                The Sawdust Trail Billy Sunday in His Own Words By William A. (Billy)
                    Sunday (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of Iowa Press, 2005. Pp. xxv, 86. Illustrations. Paperbound, $15.95.)
                Billy Sunday was 
                        America's
                     best-known evangelist in the early twentieth century. Born in 
                        Story City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , he and wife Helen (better known as Nell) made their family home in 
                        Winona Lake
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . In 2000, the Billy Sunday Historic Site Museum opened in 
                        Winona Lake
                    , showcasing the family home as it stood and was furnished during Billy
                    Sunday's evangelistic career.
                W. A. Firstenberger's short pictorial history of Sunday, In Rare Form,
                    makes a far more important contribution than its title and relative brevity might suggest. Organized
                    chronologically, chapters of text illustrated by photographs of significant artifacts take up Billy
                    and Helen's origins and then proceed through major chapters in Billy's life as an
                    evangelist. Especially interesting to me are reproductions of posters and other advertisements for
                    Sunday's revivals, as well as reproductions of cartoons and other images critical of him. I
                    was struck by the image of a newspaper ad, run by the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        North Carolina
                    , endorsing Sunday's evangelistic work (p. 31).
                The appendices are as helpful as the main text: one lists by state all of Sunday's
                    appearances; another lists recorded conversions from his revivals between 1896 and 1923; another
                    lists all the members of Sunday's evangelistic teams; the fourth gives the genealogy of
                    both Billy and Helen. This book is a must for anyone interested in Billy Sunday.
                The Sawdust Trail was originally published in serial form in the Ladies Home Journal in 1932 and 1933. Sunday's short, folksy narratives concern
                    his boyhood in 
                        Iowa
                    , his life in an orphanage, his baseball career, his conversion, marriage, the beginning
                    of his evangelistic career, and some of his favorite sermon themes. Along with the texts of his
                    sermons preached at revivals, these essays are the best source of first-person accounts of
                    Sunday's life, career, strategy, and message. The biographical foreword by historian Robert
                    E Martin is an excellent companion piece,  making this slim
                    volume an essential read. Thanks for the University of Iowa Press for making these two books
                    available in attractive paperback editions.
                BETTY DEBERG is professor of religion at the University of Northern Iowa. She is a historian of
                    religion in the 
                        U.S.
                    , and has written about Billy Sunday in her book, Ungodly Women: Gender and
                        the First Wave of American Fundamentalism (1990).
            
            
                Chronicle of Catherine Eddy Beveridge An American Girl Travels into the
                        Twentieth Century By Albert J. Beveridge III and Susan Radomsky (Lanham, Md.:
                    Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group, 2005. Pp. 256. Illustrations. $32.00.)
                This beautifully designed book provides readers with a fleeting glimpse into the social lives of
                    those economically privileged Americans whom readers may know better through the novels of Henry
                    James, Edith Wharton, and other nineteenth-and early twentieth-century writers. While these
                    novelists employed fictional devices to examine the fraction of society that created its own social
                    order and influenced the nation's business and politics, The Chronicle of
                        Catherine Eddy Beveridge combines the actual journal entries of one such individual (begun
                    while she was a young woman and revised during the later stages of her life) with the extensive
                    research of her grandson, Albert Beveridge III, and co-author Susan Radomsky, to create a portrait
                    rich in historical context.
                Lavishly illustrated with photographs of the Beveridge family, this volume opens with an explanatory
                    preface and "personal introduction" designed to familiarize readers with the
                    person whom Albert J. Beveridge III knew as his grandmother. Catherine's influence on the
                    author's upbringing and on his subsequent life choices is clear, and his engaging
                    particulars (such as a discussion of her horses and dogs, particularly her dachshunds) reveal the
                    complex person not completely illuminated in the pages of her own revised journal. Beveridge and
                    Radomsky also provide a brief introduction to each section of the journal to supplement historical
                    and social contexts that the diarist's originally intended audience-her children,
                    grandchildren, and perhaps other members of her social class-would have understood.
                Catherine's diary begins with the preparations of her wardrobe in the fashion district of 
                        Paris
                     during her "European Tour" of 1902-a tour that included her own
                    presentation at the royal courts of Europe. Her diary is filled with details of her clothes,
                    jewelry, and other social details of the period. She is most transparent when  writing about her dearly loved pets. As her diary continues through its
                    conclusion in 1908, she writes extensively of the social engagements, dinners, parties, and meetings
                    with other members of the privileged classes, maintaining a record of significant social connections
                    in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Washington, D.
                        C.
                    , as well as reflecting on her own familial concerns, including her courtship and
                    marriage to 
                        Indiana
                     senator Albert Beveridge in 1907.
                Of course, Catherine's own subsequent editorial intervention creates some challenges for
                    readers; clearly, she altered her text to offer a retrospective understanding of events and to add
                    details regarding the future of certain actors in her journal. Whether she deleted some original
                    material in her revision remains uncertain, but she certainly maintained a strong sense of a more
                    public reader through her own revisions. The authors' own extensive side notes further add
                    to the diary's historical context.
                In his "Afterword", Albert Beveridge III offers some details of his
                    grandmother's life after the close of her diary, describing Senator Beveridge's
                    term in Congress, the lives of the Beveridge children, and Catherine's continued
                    contributions to public life. Additionally, Beveridge includes an extensive essay detailing
                    Catherine's family history and providing significant background material, as well as a
                    "dramatis personae" section detailing the names of the individuals who appear in
                    Catherine's diary. These additional sections provide considerable contextual material that
                    helps the reader understand the political and social world of Catherine Eddy Beveridge.
                AMY L. WINK is the author of She Left Nothing In Particular: The Autobiographical
                        Legacy of Nineteenth Century Women's Diaries (2001). She teaches at Austin
                    Community College in 
                        Austin
                    , 
                        Texas
                    .
            
            
                The Center of a Great Empire The 
                            Ohio
                         Country in the Early Republic Edited by Andrew R. L. Cayton and Stuart D.
                    Hobbs (
                        Athens
                    : Ohio University Press, 2005. Pp. viii, 225. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    Paper-bound, $19.95.)
                The Center of a Great Empire: The 
                            Ohio
                         Country in the Early Republic, edited by Andrew Cayton and Stuart Hobbs was
                    originally conceived to commemorate 
                        Ohio's
                     2003 bicentennial. This fine collection of seven essays mostly succeeds in its goal to
                    launch "fresh conversations about the complex relationship between 
                        Ohio
                     and the American republic" (p. 166).
                Patrick Griffin's "Reconsidering the Ideological Origins of Indian  Removal" examines changing Indian-white relations in the 
                        Ohio
                     Country following the Revolution. Griffin contends that historians have failed to
                    appreciate the state's role in fostering anti-Indian attitudes. In the 
                        Ohio
                     Country, the critical breakdown of relations and corresponding shift in state response
                    that would eliminate the possibility of meaningful middle grounds was evident by 1791, in the
                    aftermath of the Big Bottom "massacre." While intriguing, Griffin's essay
                    is unclear in places, and is hampered by characterization of groups as representing either the
                    "lower sorts" or the "elites."
                Two essays address Ohio's early political development. Donald J. Ratcliffe's
                    "The Changing Political World of Thomas Worthington" reminds us that much about 
                        Ohio's
                     statehood in 1803 reveals the bold, experimental, even revolutionary nature of the
                    political process behind creating states from the Old Northwest Territory, 
                        Ohio
                     being the first. Ellen Eslinger observes, in "The Evolution of Racial Politics
                    in Early 
                        Ohio
                    ," that 
                        Ohio
                     was the first state in the union to be founded "with virtually no heritage of
                    legal slaveholding" (p. 81). Yet, despite the Northwest Ordinance's prohibition on
                    slavery, racial policy soon became a flashpoint of contention, reflecting a society at odds with
                    itself. The black laws, for example, would contradict what Eslinger terms 
                        Ohio's
                     "pivotal" ranking "in the national story of the antebellum
                    anti-slavery movement" (p. 82).
                Religion, education, and the family formed major bedrocks of early 
                        Ohio
                     society. In his insightful "
                        Ohio
                     Gospel: Methodism in Early 
                        Ohio
                    ," John Wigger points out that 
                        Ohio
                     was the first place to afford the "new mass religious movements" a
                    chance to flourish without pressure either from the "old established colonial
                    denominations" or from slavery (p. 74). Kenneth H. Wheeler, in "How Colleges
                    Shaped a Public Culture of Usefulness," argues that 
                        Ohio's
                     liberality in chartering privately funded, denominational colleges contributed to a
                    culture that valued productivity, practicality, and piety. The colleges served as public arenas in
                    spreading this cultural outlook. Tamara Gaskell Miller's look at family and kinship in
                    "'My whole enjoyment & almost my existence depends upon my
                    friends'" is weak in several respects. While she correctly notes that migrants to 
                        Ohio
                     "began to adopt a more domestic, nuclear ideal of family life" (p.
                    123), other assertions are dubious. To state, for example, that "it was precisely this
                    desire to keep families together that prompted so many to move west" (p. 125) is to unduly
                    minimize the primary economic concerns that motivated many migrants, as well as the facts that
                    migration often split families to begin with, and that the children of migrants often migrated
                    further west or left home to learn trades.
                Christopher Clark's "The 
                        Ohio
                     Country in the Political Economy of Nation Building" explores interconnected
                    themes in early 
                        Ohio's
                     socioeconomic situation. Clark takes the 
                    unconventional approach of viewing "the 
                        Ohio
                     region" through an unwieldy eastern lens, an approach this reviewer would
                    strongly discourage. 
                        Ohio
                     and the emerging Midwest should be taken on their own terms, especially with regards to agricultural development. As the work of noted 
                        Ohio
                     and agricultural historian R. Douglas Hurt (and others including myself) makes plain,
                    Ohioans were a market-minded people who ambitiously engaged in the market to improve their
                    families' circumstances.
                Overall, this important volume amply demonstrates ways in which the 
                        Ohio
                     Country indeed formed the center of a great empire.
                GINETTE ALEY is assistant professor of history at the University of Southern Indiana. She has
                    published several articles on the early Midwest and is currently revising her dissertation into a
                    book manuscript entitled "Narrating an Early American Borderland: John Tipton and the West
                    of the Early Republic."
            
            
                Raccoon John Smith Frontier Kentucky's Most Famous Preacher
                    By Elder John Sparks (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2005. Pp. xxvi, 462. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $45.00.)
                In the wake of the Second Great Awakening, a radical new religious movement swept across the Upper
                    South and the Midwest. Adherents to this movement-calling themselves variously Campbellites,
                    Stoneites, Disciples of Christ, or simply Christians-sought to abolish all denominations and
                    divisions within Christianity by restoring it to its primitive first-century simplicity. Many
                    frontier people found this hopeful message beguiling. By 1850, the Stone/Campbellites numbered
                    nearly a quarter million, with 186 "Restorationist" congregations in 
                        Indiana
                     alone. In time, its growth would slow and the movement would splinter, but not before
                    this quintessentially midwestern sect had established an enduring national presence.
                Much critical scholarship has been produced of late focusing on the early history of the
                    Stone/Campbellite movement, especially its eponymous leaders, the retiring Barton Stone and the
                    fiery Alexander Campbell. Few scholars, however, have addressed the foot soldiers of the movement,
                    those regional leaders and preachers who abandoned their previous denominational ties to champion
                    this radical vision of unity. Elder John Sparks, in his exhaustively researched Raccoon
                        John Smith, does a masterful job rescuing just such a regional leader from the distortions
                    and obscurity of denominational  hagiography. John Smith (1784-
                    1868), as his sobriquet "Raccoon" suggests, was backwoods born and bred, spending
                    all his adult life in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Educational opportunities were few, but the chaotic frontier gave him plenty of
                    opportunities to hone his native intelligence and sharpen his famously acerbic wit. Despite
                    experiencing firsthand some of the greatest excesses of frontier revivalism, and despite his
                    youthful flirtation with skepticism, Smith chose the life of a Baptist farmer-preacher, eventually
                    rising high within the patronage system of the Kentucky General Union of Baptists. The Union,
                    comprised of congregations of both Regular (Calvinist) and Separatist (Arminian) Baptists, was
                    inherently unstable, a fact the ambitious young preacher exploited with aplomb. In time, however,
                    Smith's ambition and his intellectual development would lead him to repudiate the Baptist
                    organization entirely. Denied high office within the Union because of his increasingly outspoken
                    "Restorationist" sympathies, Smith broke with the Baptists in 1828 and became a
                    devoted follower of Alexander Campbell. Five years later, he helped to facilitate the union of
                    Campbell's Disciples and Stone's Christians at the famous Lexington New
                    Year's Day meeting. By the time of his death three decades later, Smith was revered in 
                        Kentucky
                     and much of the Midwest as a tireless proselytizer for the movement.
                While Smith was admittedly a secondary character in the great antebellum
                    "Restoration," the sheer detail of Sparks's biography powerfully evokes
                    the religious world of the frontier. Sparks nicely contextualizes the theological antinomies of
                    Calvinism vs. Arminianism, creedalism vs. liberalism, and pietism vs. rationalism that catalyzed the
                    primitivist impulses behind the Stone/Campbellite movement. In a larger sense, Raccoon
                        John Smith is also an illuminating case study of some of the perennial, if less than
                    edifying aspects of denominational dynamics-what might be called the dark side of religious
                    voluntarism. Sparks makes it clear that the internal politics of the Baptist Union were as byzantine
                    and brutal as anything before or since, and that, despite subsequent romanticism, the emergence of
                    the Disciples tradition out of existing denominations like the Baptists was a painful process that
                    left bitter feelings, the repercussions of which continue to this day. Perhaps it is good to be
                    reminded that the religious marketplace-like any market- place-is rarely a friendly place, and that
                    while such competition is to be celebrated, its human cost is inevitable. For students of the
                    religious history of the Midwest or the antebellum frontier in general, or for those interested in
                    the sociology of religion, I highly recommend this book.
                BRIAN WILSON is professor and chair of comparative religion at Western Michigan University in 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
            
            
                Pioneer Spirit Catherine Spalding, Sister of Charity of Nazareth By Mary
                    Ellen Doyle (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2006. Pp. xvi, 286. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                Mary Ellen Doyle's Pioneer Spirit: Catherine Spalding, Sister of Charity of
                        Nazareth adds to a literature that highlights the role of Roman Catholic sisters and nuns
                    in building religion and nation. Set within the context of frontier 
                        Kentucky
                    , this biography of the foundress of the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth illuminates the
                    intersection between overarching historical events and personal spiritual conviction.
                Spalding's work embraced the years 1813 to 1858, a time when the country confronted the
                    challenges of territorial expansion, economic instability, rising immigration, vicious nativism, and
                    widespread slavery. 
                        Kentucky
                     proved to be influenced by all those elements, as were Mother Catherine and her
                    congregation. In addition, the practice of Catholicism in 
                        Kentucky
                    , as Spalding experienced it, underscored the struggles of a frontier church overseen in
                    the main by imperious and abrasive foreign-born clerics, who showed few qualms about exploiting the
                    sisters laboring in poverty at mission outposts.
                The author draws on an impressive array of primary materials-many of them in the archives of the
                    Sisters of Charity of Nazareth at 
                        Nazareth
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    -to recount the life of this remarkable leader, teacher, caregiver, and administrator
                    who effectively energized education and health services on the midwestern frontier. Employing
                    meticulous research, Doyle-herself a member of Spalding's congregation-keeps a balanced
                    tone, generally avoiding hagiography and never claiming more than the documents substantiate. Doyle
                    maps out the hardships of life and death at western missions; the economic uncertainties facing a
                    new congregation; the clashes with religious and secular associates; the sorrows, joys, and
                    friendships within a community of vowed religious; the successes and failures for women in a rigidly
                    gendered church; and the stresses created by a virulent anti-Catholicism that settled over 
                        Kentucky
                    . Some lay readers may find the detail daunting, but the author aims to resolve certain
                    mysteries and controversies surrounding Spalding's life and she tries to do so thoroughly
                    and fairly.
                Most impressively, the author tackles the unpleasant subject of slave-holding by Spalding and her
                    sisters-including an account of the death by poisoning of Sister Ann Spalding (Mother
                    Catherine's biological sister) at the hands of a young black girl. Doyle's direct
                    confrontation of this sensitive topic stands out  as a highly
                    commendable feature of this study. Still, the author's conclusion that slave ownership
                    reflected, among other factors, 
                        Kentucky
                     culture and economics of the era remains less than satisfying. Historians have not been
                    willing to excuse Thomas Jefferson for his slave-operated plantation by virtue of the
                    "product of his times" argument; the Quaker John Woolman, as some have noted,
                    mounted unpopular anti-slavery protests as early as the 1750s.
                If Doyle falters in this area, she more than compensates in her conclusions about the growth of
                    social justice initiatives by Spalding's congregation. Doyle's gracefully written
                    summary links the past to the present, demonstrating that Spalding's complex legacy led her
                    religious daughters to activism that trancended state, region, and country and promoted the best
                    impulses for the well-being of all peoples. Pioneer Spirit: Catherine Spalding, Sister
                        of Charity of Nazareth convinces the reader that through her dramatic and productive life
                    Spalding merited this fine scholarly biography. It shows as well that women in sisterhood had an
                    impact on frontier 
                        Kentucky
                    , influenced the religious and secular narrative of the nation, and continue to shape
                    modern 
                        America
                    .
                ANNE M. BUTLER is a Trustee Professor, Emeritus, of history at Utah State University. She is the
                    author of several articles about Roman Catholic sisters in the nineteenth-century American West and
                    is completing a monograph on the subject.
            
            
                Good Hearts Catholic Sisters in Chicago's Past By Suellen Hoy (
                        Champaign
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2006. Pp xiv, 242. Photographs, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $22.00.)
                Suellen Hoy, guest professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, has written an important
                    collection of essays on the history of the nuns of 
                        Chicago
                    . Hoy's work takes us on an intellectual journey, following the path of the
                    nuns from the 1846 arrival of five Sisters of Mercy (the first community of nuns in the city) to the
                    highly visible efforts of the nuns who took part in the civil rights demonstrations of the 1960s.
                    Along the way, she establishes a rightful place for these women in the historical discussion of
                    urban women activists. As American academics have been largely uncomfortable with, or ignorant of,
                    the role of religious leaders in shaping our modern cities, historians have not yet adequately
                    documented these stories. Hoy's collection goes a long way towards remedying this over-  sight. As she forcefully argues, the service provided to the
                    poor by Catholic sisters predates the labor of Jane Addams's Hull House and deserves more
                    recognition than it garnered previously.
                Hoy's compelling first chapter, "The Journey Out: From 
                        Ireland
                     to 
                        America
                    ," covers the female chain migration of Catholic sisters leaving 
                        Ireland
                    . Readers learn of the status-driven system by which women with few prospects in their
                    homeland were recruited for religious work in 
                        America
                    , but only if they had a dowry. Impoverished women wishing to join the religious
                    movement could sign on as lay sisters, providing domestic labor to the communities but without the
                    status of so-called choir sisters. Hoy's work here adds nuances to our understanding of
                    Irish immigration, especially the immigration of Irish women. Her final chapter, "Marching
                    for Racial Justice in 
                        Chicago
                     in the 1960s," opens up the history of activist nuns who marched in the
                    streets of 
                        Chicago
                    , protesting the racist policies of the Illinois Club for Catholic Women as well as
                    segregation in the public schools. Here, we see nuns breaking out of a cloistered life and pursuing
                    social justice. Hoy's account of the sisters' outreach programs, including the
                    Marillac House settlement and Sister Mary William's Rendu House (operating out of Rockwell
                    Gardens public housing project), prove riveting.
                Hoy's work leaves many questions unanswered. Because the chapters are all previously
                    published articles, readers are left with both a repetition of themes and a less than thorough
                    discussion of the place of nuns in the history of 
                        Chicago
                    . A glossary would have made the work more accessible to a non-Catholic audience; the
                    addition of a conclusion would have tightened the book's varied contents. I would have
                    liked to see chapters reworked to include more of Hoy's thoughts on the place of these nuns
                    in urban history generally. Individual actors do not jump from the pages as they might; provocative
                    figures like Saint Katherine Drexel and Sister Mary Williams do not emerge as full-blown historical
                    figures. The rich photographic record included here partially makes up for such issues. Perhaps the
                    nature of the primary sources (Hoy explains that the sisters did not document what they did or seek
                    glory for the work) leads to the flattened nature of these biographical sketches. Readers would also
                    benefit from a broader discussion of Catholic visions of social justice and aid to the poor. What
                    motivated this urban activism, and what were the limits of the change the sisters proposed?
                Despite these lingering questions, this work, or portions thereof, will prove of great benefit to
                    undergraduate and graduate courses on urban activism. Assigned alongside the likes of Maureen
                    Flanagan's Seeing With Their Hearts: 
                            Chicago
                         Women and the Vision of the Good City, 1871-1933 (2002), it will help students
                    and  scholars to gain a nuanced picture of 
                        Chicago
                     women's active roles in their city.
                LISA KRISSOFF BOEHM is associate professor of urban studies, Worcester State College, 
                        Worcester
                    , 
                        Mass.
                     She is the author of Popular Culture and the Enduring Myth of 
                            Chicago
                        , 1871-1968 (2004) and Making a Way Out of No Way: African
                        American Women, Domestic Work, and the Second Great Migration, 1940-1970
                (forthcoming).
            
            
                The 
                            Chicago
                         Black Renaissance and Women's Activism By Anne Meis Knupfer (
                        Champaign
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2006. Pp. x, 244. Illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $20.00.)
                This valuable study documents the ways in which social class, gender, and professional and
                    organizational affiliation influenced women's activism during the 
                        Chicago
                     Renaissance. While much work on these topics has centered on the Harlem Renaissance of
                    the 1920s, Anne Meis Knupfer's important volume chronicles 
                        Chicago
                     during the period from 1930 to 1955-a time of flourishing art, theater, music, and
                    intellectualism in the city's African American community. 
                        Chicago
                     writers emphasized the idea that black art needed to combine aesthetics and function
                    and to serve the cause of black freedom. The period also coincided with the arrival and assimilation
                    of thousands of rural migrants from the South.
                Knupfer argues that black women's activism crossed political, social, and cultural
                    boundaries in linking black art, literature, music, history, and community outreach to greater
                    transnational struggles. Examining the efforts of club women, members of black sororities, school
                    teachers, artists and writers, founders of cultural and social institutions, and ministers she
                    argues that a pan-African intellectual activism fueled the arts and social protest of local black
                    women and created the momentum necessary to sustain the 
                        Chicago
                     Black Renaissance.
                In the chapter, "Women's Activism in Public Housing," Knupfer expands this
                    argument to include the crucial role played by activist working-class and poor women through their
                    involvement in tenant associations in two housing projects, the Ida B. Wells Homes and the Algeld
                    Gardens Homes. Most residents of public housing from the 1930s through 1950s, she informs, were not
                    on public relief or assistance but were gainfully employed. Yet social institutions such as the
                    Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) and the South Parkway  YWCA
                    (SPY), expecting middle-class behavior, refused to work with female tenants or to respect their way
                    of organizing. There was little crossover of class lines between those tenant organizers and their
                    middle-class sisters; residents of the two public housing sites generally did not belong to 
                        Chicago's
                     leading black female organizations. In focusing on the contribution of these
                    organizers, this volume joins the recent scholarship examining the grassroots activism of working
                    poor women during the civil rights movement.
                The book also provides a significant contribution to the historical literature on African American
                    women's activism. Through her discussion of women's successful efforts to reform
                    overcrowded, segregated schools, Knupfer convincingly demonstrates that black women of all social
                    classes historically associate children's welfare issues with political and social change.
                    Her work reminds us today that the activism of working-class women has not been fully documented, in
                    part because scholars continue to "fragment activism from mothering" (p. 150). By
                    putting her analysis in a broader context of African American activism, the author suggests the
                    black renaissance paved the way for the 1960s-era civil rights movement in 
                        Chicago
                     and also for black nationalist groups. Specialists and more general readers alike will
                    find a rich mine of information in the appendices which list black female community activists and
                    professionals in 
                        Chicago
                     (1930-1960) and 
                        Chicago
                     black southside community organizations and addresses (1930- 1960).
                FLORIS BARNETT CASH is associate professor and department chair of Africana Studies, State
                    University of New York at Stony Brook.
            
            
                How the Indians Lost their Land Law and Power on the Frontier By
                    Stuart Banner (
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Mass.
                    : Harvard University Press, 2005. Pp. 344. Illustrations, notes, index. $29.95.)
                Conquest by Law How the Discovery of 
                            America
                         Dispossessed the Indigenous Peoples of their Land By Lindsay G.
                    Robertson (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 2005. Pp. xiii, 239. Maps, illustrations, photographs,
                    appendices, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                Recently, in many successful lawsuits, Native American tribes have received payment for territory
                    that was illegally taken over a century ago. While the principles behind these victories are often
                    misunderstood by those  unfamiliar with the history of American
                    Indian law, two new books help provide clarity. Stuart Banner's How the
                        Indians Lost Their Land examines Indian property rights and the mechanisms of land transfer
                    from the colonial era through the 1930s. According to Banner, the exchange of land was neither a
                    simple matter of conquest, nor entirely voluntary, but rather existed along a continuum between
                    absolute force and the willful sale of land. Yet, from the colonial era through the early twentieth
                    century, land transfers occurred increasingly under coercion.
                Banner posits distinct periods wherein intercultural power relationships and non-Indians'
                    understanding of Indian land ownership changed markedly. His early chapters argue that the first
                    English settlers squabbled among themselves over the nature of Indian land ownership: Could
                    Christians simply take "heathens' " land? Or was it necessary to purchase
                    such territory? By the end of the seventeenth century, the confusion was resolved: English settlers
                    agreed that Indians possessed their lands outright and settlers were legally bound to buy titles
                    from the Indians. While such sales often followed from violence, epidemics, and economic dependency,
                    the transfer of title from one party to another in exchange for payment proved the norm. Later, the
                    Proclamation of 1763 prohibited anyone except royal officials from purchasing Indian lands, a policy
                    that effectively drove down the price Indians might receive on the free market. After the American
                    Revolution, Euro-American thinking shifted again. The land of those tribes that had fought against
                    the Americans could now be acquired by right of conquest, obviating the need for purchase. Even
                    allied or neutral tribes suffered from restrictions, as the Constitution allowed only the federal
                    government to acquire Indian lands. As state governments and frontier residents grew increasingly
                    desirous for land, they pressured the federal government to use its land-purchasing powers to cajole
                    or threaten Indians to cede lands.
                These pressures led to another shift, embodied in the Supreme Court's 1823 Johnson v. M'Intosh decision. Justice John Marshall used this case to posit the
                    "discovery doctrine," which asserted that Indians had never enjoyed full rights to
                    their lands after the Europeans' discovery of 
                        America
                    . Instead, he reasoned, they had merely held the right to "occupancy,"
                    a right that could be extinguished at the will of the European discoverer, and later, the 
                        U.S.
                     government. Banner emphasizes the contrast between Marshall's decision and the
                    way in which colonists actually conceived of Indian land ownership. Yet, with
                    "occupancy" as the applicable legal principle, the decision provided the 
                        United States
                     with legal justification to acquire territory without solid Indian consent. Later
                    periods of removal, reservation, and allotment saw Indians forced onto smaller plots of land,  resulting in increasing territorial losses. Banner's
                    narrative skillfully unpacks centuries of legal decisions, examining their contradictions and the
                    controversies they engendered, and defining the legal jargon in layman's terms. His work
                    will prove an especially good resource for generalists who want a greater understanding of the
                    complex legal and political relationship between Indians and non-Indians.
                Lindsay G. Robertson's Conquest by Law focuses specifically on one key
                    episode in Banner's broader narrative: Johnson v. M'Intosh.
                    Robertson provides a detailed history of the case, beginning with the Illinois and Wabash Land
                    Companies' original land purchases in what became southern 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Indiana
                    , a decade after (and in clear violation of) the Proclamation of 1763-purchases that
                    formed the basis for Johnson's land claim. For Robertson, Marshall's extensive
                    treatment of the discovery doctrine can be explained, in part, by his desire to quash
                    Johnson's suit, and in part, by his deference to Revolutionary War veterans, whose claims
                    would have been jeopardized by a decision for Johnson. Marshall's long explication, he
                    argues, was otherwise superfluous to the case at hand, even as it exerted long-lasting impact on
                    Indian law (Marshall tried to revise the principle a decade later in Worcester v. 
                            Georgia
                         [1832]).
                Robertson's contribution to this discussion is considerable. He has uncovered corporate
                    records of the United Illinois and Wabash Land Companies stored in a trunk owned by a descendant of
                    an officer of the company. The previously unexamined documents enrich his discussion of litigious
                    persistence and reveal a shocking amount of legal collusion by the attorneys on both sides of the
                    case. The story is an intriguing one, and it elucidates the murky legislative and judicial history
                    of the late-colonial era and the Early Republic. His discussions of the origins of the dubious
                    "discovery doctrine," and of Marshall's own attempts to rein it in during
                    the removal era, constitute his most significant contributions. In fact, Banner states explicitly
                    that Robertson's dissertation and earlier articles formed the basis of his own discussion
                    of the Johnson case (p. 321). Obviously, Robertson's analysis of Johnson has already influenced the field. While Conquest by Law
                    might be a challenging book for an undergraduate audience, those interested in the territorial
                    history of the Midwest or the Early Republic will find in it a dramatic account coupled with a
                    scholarly analysis of a long standing but problematic legal principle.
                THOMAS J. LAPPAS is assistant professor of history at Nazareth College, 
                        Rochester
                    , 
                        N.Y.
                    
            
            
            
                The Indian Chief as Tragic Hero Native Resistance and the Literatures of 
                            America
                        , from Moctezuma to Tecumseh By Gordon M. Sayre (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2005. Pp. 368. Illustrations. $22.50)
                Injun Joe's Ghost The Indian Mixed-Blood in American Writing
                    By Harry J. Brown (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 2004. Pp. viii, 271. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $47.50.)
                In the 1500s, indigenous Mexican boys attending a mission school outside the Aztec capitol of 
                        Tenochtitlan
                     painted hundreds of images of the conquest of 
                        Mexico
                    . A Franciscan friar, Bernadino de Sahagun, used their art to illustrate a twelve-volume
                    history of New Spain. But the book (known as the Florentine Codex) was considered too radical for
                    publication, and it languished in a private library in 
                        Florence
                     for more than three hundred years. Few scholars today have examined the pictures. Even
                    fewer scholars have seen the images from The Half Breed or The Place Beyond the
                    Wind, silent films released in 1916 starring respectively Douglas Fairbanks and Lon Chaney as
                    mixed-blood Indian protagonists. Like many silents, the films were never intentionally preserved; in
                    1978 they were salvaged from a cache of 510 reels that had been buried in an abandoned swimming pool
                    beneath an ice skating rink in the 
                        Yukon
                    .>
                Today, scholars who write about Native Americans must go beyond the familiar archive of nationalist
                    romances and official histories and search for traces of indigeneity wherever they can, from the
                    libraries of 
                        Italy
                     to the landfills of the Canadian West. Both Gordon Sayre and Harry J. Brown take us
                    into these excitingly expanded new archives, and both connect the new materials to more familiar
                    sources.
                In The Indian Chief as Tragic Hero, Sayre focuses on poems, plays, and novels about
                    Indian chiefs. He puts these literary works into the context of an array of sources that includes
                    non-alphabetic native records like the images of the Florentine Codex, as well as unsuspected
                    textual sources including Aristotle's Poetics, Rene Girard's
                    literary theories, and even, in the case of Pontiac, the history of the American automobile
                    industry. Pontiac is one of the best examples of Sayre's central thesis: Although he led an
                    uprising that was considered terrorist, Pontiac was framed as a tragic hero, and almost instantly
                    absorbed into American culture as an admirable figure. It is hard to imagine 
                        Detroit
                     automakers rolling out a new line of "Bin Ladens." What sort of
                    collective national forgetting made Pontiac an attractive brand name?
                
                Sayre argues that stories of violent native resistance to colonialism cast regular Indian rebels as
                    brutal or demonic, but their leaders-he looks in particular at Moctezuma, Metacom, Pontiac, Logan,
                    and Tecumseh-are framed as tragic heroes who offer their conquerors an opportunity for catharsis, a
                    psychological cleansing that can heal the spiritual wounds of violence. Sayre works deftly with his
                    multitude of sources; his book is a triumphant example of the benefits of interdisciplinarity and
                    the inclusive approach to evidence.
                Brown's Injun Joe's Ghost also works within a remarkably broad
                    archive, ranging from one of the earliest American novels, Susannah Rowson's Reuben and Rachel (1798), through antebellum historical romances, dime westerns, magazine
                    fiction, the silent films discovered in the 
                        Yukon
                    , and twentieth-century writings of the Native American Renaissance. Brown argues that
                    "the figure of the mixed-blood ... provides a mirror in which we might observe and
                    interpret changes in the way we view ourselves as a nation" (p. 246). The fundamental shift
                    from the eighteenth century to the twenty-first was a move to "revise the concept of
                    hybridity from biological terms to cultural terms" (p. 157). As a result of this cultural
                    turn, "the nation's counternarratives have become its master narratives .... The
                    subaltern has not only spoken, but it has usurped the dominant discourse and shattered the idols-the
                    vanishing Indian, the uncrossed hero, the undefiled white maiden-that were once
                    unassailable" (p. 245). It is an interesting argument, and although the book could
                    certainly engage more fully the work of other scholars, Injun Joe's Ghost
                    asks fascinating questions about mixed-blood Indians and offers a wide range of literary sources for
                    consideration.
                Although Brown uses the figure of the ghost, he does not give much thought to the metaphor. Neither
                    does Sayre. But both books are haunted nonetheless. Brown accords mixed-blood Indians the power to
                    "haunt us to death" (p. 15). More explicitly, Sayre muses that "the
                    question that haunts my crossbreed off-spring of literary genre studies and Native American
                    ethnohistory is whether the literary expressions of the Indian tragic heroes actually con- vey
                    anything of Native American experience" (p. 34). These questions haunt every scholarly work
                    that focuses on Native Americans in American literature, history, and culture; in facing them, Brown
                    and Sayre introduce us to fascinating archives, ask exciting new questions, and offer some startling
                    answers. Brown tells us that the dialectics of racialism are subsiding, and that the new culturalism
                    will make mixed blood Indians central rather than spectral. Sayre shows that a cultural studies
                    approach uniting disparate theories, images, histories, and a vast range of texts can offer new
                    insight into the past and perhaps allow particular his-  torical
                    human beings such as Pontiac to emerge from the veils of nationalist mythology that have almost
                    completely obscured them.
                RENEE BERGLAND teaches American literature and gender/cultural studies at Simmons College, 
                        Boston
                    . She is the author of The National Uncanny: Indian Ghosts and American
                        Subjects (2000).
            
            
                The Boundaries of American Political Culture in the Civil War Era By Mark
                    E. Neely, Jr. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 159. Illustrations, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                Mark Neely's twelfth book proposes to locate the boundaries between political and private
                    life during the Civil War era. Originally presented as a series of lectures at Pennsylvania State
                    University in 2002, The Boundaries of American Political Culture responded to
                    arguments by social historians that politics played only a marginal role in the daily lives of
                    nineteenth-century Americans. The author finds that during the Civil War era, engagement between
                    political and private life was without parallel.
                Neely's highly original analysis of the boundaries of political culture depends on his use
                    of a wide range of often-overlooked popular cultural evidence. He examines, for example, political
                    material found in the home, such as lithographs, paintings, newspapers, and photographs, as well as
                    political material found in public areas, like cartoons and posters. In connecting politics to
                    everyday life, Neely also explores partisan use of minstrel shows and other forms of entertainment
                    to deliver political messages to the public. Additionally, he analyzes the role of Union Leagues in
                    fundraising and in engaging individuals in politics through club activities. In contrast to Glenn C.
                    Altschuler and Stuart M. Blumin's contention that political activities in
                    nineteenth-century 
                        America
                     were largely ignored by common Americans, Neely finds considerable overlap between the
                    public and private spheres of everyday life, and contends that politics, while not all-consuming,
                    certainly pervaded the daily lives of most Americans.
                One of the strengths of Neely's study is his creative use of cultural material and
                    artifacts, resources not always fully explored by political historians. For example, Neely finds
                    that many commercially produced small folio lithographic prints-which were clearly intended to be
                    hung in the home-depicted political figures and  images. He
                    illustrates his point with an analysis of a print of "Henry Clay"-an engraving by
                    Henry Sadd, based on a portrait by John W. Dodge-and concludes that hanging a picture in the home, a
                    private act, was by no means separate from political partisanship. Such pictures reflected the
                    extent to which politics intertwined with the private lives of Americans.
                Another example of Neely's creative use of cultural resources appears in his fascinating
                    analysis of popular entertainment. While acknowledging his debt to Jean Baker's Affairs of Party (1998), Neely closely examines minstrel entertainment and
                    concludes that even popular culture could not completely ignore political culture. Equally
                    important, according to Neely, common people in the era of the Civil War were unembarrassed by
                    public political identification, an indication not only of the respectability of political
                    identification but also of the pervasiveness of politics in the social lives of everyday Americans.
                Resting upon evidence often overlooked by political historians, Neely steers the reader through an
                    intriguing and insightful intellectual journey. Despite the book's grand purpose and
                    fascinating approach, however, the boundaries of American political culture remain elusive, no
                    matter how finely Neely parses his arguments. Although Neely has not settled the debate about
                    political culture during the Civil War era, he has succeeded in expanding it by raising new
                    questions and opening fresh fields of inquiry.
                STEPHEN HANSEN is professor of history and dean of the graduate school at Southern Illinois
                    University, 
                        Edwardsville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    .
            
            
                Women and Patriotism in Jim Crow America By Francesca Morgan (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2005. Pp. xiii, 297. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $21.95.)
                Francesca Morgan's Women and Patriotism in Jim Crow 
                            America
                         explores women-centered nationalism among the United Daughters of the
                    Confederacy (UDC), Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR), Woman's Relief Corp (WRC),
                    and the National Association of Colored Women (NACW) from Reconstruction to the 1930s. The gendered
                    conceptions of nationalism that characterized such groups' missions grew from beliefs that
                    women were morally superior, that their political activism was "essential to
                    nation-building," and that they were "creators of culture, in the sense of
                    everyday life and attitudes" (p. 3). These values led women nationalists to challenge some
                    sexual hierarchies, but not to confront  women's
                    exclusion from direct participation in the political process. By glorifying "men's
                    sacrifices on battle-fields as the highest form of patriotism," Morgan asserts, gendered
                    nationalism "reinforced women's official exclusion from military service and
                    therefore from first-class citizenship" (p. 4).
                Morgan substantively addresses race by detailing NACW's "civic
                    nationalist" efforts to foreground the patriotism of black men, to educate blacks about
                    heroes of their own race, and to question the meaning of citizenship in a Jim Crow society. Although
                    NACW became more masculinist in the twentieth century, its members never abandoned the idea of
                    women's cultural authority nor conflated patriotism with unquestioning allegiance to the
                    state. Morgan also furthers understanding of the intersections of race and women's
                    nationalism by revealing how their commitment to whiteness made the DAR, UDC, and even WRC complicit
                    in the triumph and domination of Jim Crow throughout the nation. The WRC, formed to provide relief
                    for Union veterans, was multiracial in its origins, but its white leaders ignored contributions of
                    black southerners to Union victory, sought "loyal" people among white southerners,
                    and, by the end of the century, increasingly embraced racialized definitions of national patriotism.
                    The UDC, which promoted neo-Confederate nationalism, erected countless statues and created Southern
                    patriotic rituals to memorialize fallen Confederates and the Lost Cause. Opposed to woman suffrage
                    and allied with white male Democrats, UDC women were not, Morgan argues, pawns of white male
                    politicians, but agents in the expansion of Jim Crow and valorization of the Confederacy. Sectional
                    reconciliation was possible, they believed, only when others recognized that respect for Confederate
                    patriotism was an essential component of national patriotism.
                The DAR, Morgan explains, promoted state-based nationalism because it sought to increase
                    "loyalty to the nation, embodied by the state-the federal government and its laws"
                    (p. 43). Unlike the UDC and NACW, which held ambivalent attitudes toward the state, the DAR
                    recognized "no tension between state and nation" (p. 47). Formed in 1890, it
                    required members to document white ancestral support for the American Revolution and to demonstrate
                    that they were acceptable to the existing membership-stipulations ensuring a membership of
                    higher-class white women. The DAR encouraged white women's political activism and fostered
                    women's cultural authority, but by evaluating women on the basis of their relationships
                    with men, and by endorsing male-only state-based nationalism, Morgan argues, the organization
                    reified the existing sexual hierarchy.
                World War I and the Russian Revolution proved pivotal in transforming the relationship between gen-
                         der and nationalism. White women volunteer nationalists
                    surrendered cultural and moral authority to men as the state and its professional agents joined
                    their efforts during the war. In the postwar period, the women-centered nationalist groups,
                    including the DAR, supported reforms for women and children and called for international peace and
                    cooperation, but the DAR turned abruptly to the right in 1923 when an extreme rightist clique,
                    radicalized by the war and Russian Revolution, seized control of the organization. The DAR now
                    opposed any governmental role in domestic reform, but supported the creation of a strong national
                    security state.
                Morgan concludes that despite differences in their definitions of nation, all of the women
                    nationalists fostered "pronounced masculine turns within their respective
                    ideologies"-turns that followed the lead of such disparate models as "the U.S.
                    military, federal surveillance agencies, the historical profession, the NAACP, and the charismatic
                    Marcus Garvey" (p. 128). Morgan's deft treatment of four organizations over
                    several decades provides readers with a richly nuanced and complicated history of the rise and fall
                    of women-centered nationalism.
                BARBARA J. STEINSON is a University Professor and professor of history at DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . She is revising American Women's Activism in World War I
                    (1981) for a second edition and working on a manuscript on rural life in 
                        Indiana
                    , 1850-1950.
            
            
                The Carriage Trade Making Horse-Drawn Vehicles in 
                            America
                         By Thomas A. Kinney (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press,
                    2004. Pp. xi, 381. Illustrations, notes, glossary, essay on sources, index. $49.95.)
                The 2006 announcement of a new Honda plant for 
                        Greensburg
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , buoyed state Republicans during a difficult election year, raised the hopes of
                    recently laid-off autoworkers, and provided Hoosiers in general with a chance to savor a
                    $500-million-dollar victory over rivals 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . The new auto plant's advent may also have reminded state and local historians
                    of 
                        South Bend's
                     Studebaker Brothers. This firm's long history of manufacturing first carriages
                    and then automobiles gains new and timely currency in Thomas A. Kinney's fine new book, The Carriage Trade: Making Horse-Drawn Vehicles in 
                            America
                        . Kinney retells the Studebaker story and places it within the wider history of
                    American transportation and manufacturing.
                
                Kinney's first chapter surveys the many changes that carriage manufacturing and marketing
                    underwent from the mid-eighteenth century to the end of the nineteenth century, when automobiles
                    began to displace horse-drawn carriages. He follows with detailed accounts of carriage making before
                    the Civil War, the industrialization of the trade in the years that followed, and the complex
                    relationship between vertical and horizontal modes of manufacture. In the former, manufacturers
                    fabricated and assembled all parts of a vehicle; in the latter, independent suppliers provided
                    manufacturers with parts, which the manufacturer then assembled into finished carriages.
                Integrating the complex history of organizational, manufacturing, and marketing change that carriage
                    makers faced in the nineteenth century are two chapters devoted, respectively, to New
                    England's and 
                        New York's
                     Brewster family and to 
                        Indiana's
                     Studebaker brothers. The story of the first shows how one family generated great wealth
                    from its manufacturing success and survived challenges posed by the passenger train, the streetcar,
                    and the bicycle, even though filial conflict split the firm. The Studebaker Brothers Manufacturing
                    Company was longer-lived than the Brewster firms, making the transition to auto manufacturing more
                    successfully than did all other carriage manufacturers. Kinney's dual narratives are
                    lively, detailed, and interesting, providing structure and coherency to a long, complex, and
                    detailed book.
                The book's final chapters examine the impact of industrialization on workers and the
                    carriage makers' response to the advent of automobiles and trucks. In his epilogue, Kinney
                    restates the book's principal motifs: "Unlike so many other trades where the
                    factory swept away the small shop, however, the industrialization of wagon and carriage manufacture
                    actually gave the old shop a new lease on life. The interchangeable parts flowing from the large
                    accessory factories permitted minimally capitalized small firms to successfully assemble and market
                    wagons and car- riages in competition with the large mass producers" (p. 300).
                Nine tables and twenty seven images-all well-designed and well- chosen-complement the text, as do a
                    glossary and bibliographic essay. The glossary is especially welcome because few readers will know
                    either the taxonomy of horse-drawn vehicles or the names of carriage parts. At the same time, by
                    being separated from the text, such technical terms do not hinder readers uninterested in them-just
                    one of the marks of Kinney's skillful craftsmanship. With these well-organized tools, clear
                    explanations, and absorbing narratives, Kinney provides 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        United States
                     historians with an erudite and insightful contribution to the history of transportation
                    technology.
                Horse and carriage go together like love and marriage, the popular  tune says, but not in The Carriage Trade. Its divorce of animal and wheeled
                    vehicle is perplexing; without a horse, a carriage had no instrumental value in the nineteenth
                    century-and precious little symbolic value, either. In the twentieth century, of course, horse and
                    carriage succumbed to truck and automobile together. Historians have, in effect, half the story of
                    this early mode of transportation, although it could not be better done.
                PHILIP M. TEIGEN, of History of Medicine Division, National Library of Medicine in 
                        Bethesda
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , writes on horses and dogs in the Gilded Age and the diseases they transmitted to
                    humans, rabies and anthrax in particular.
            
            
                Birth of a Salesman The Transformation of Selling in 
                            America
                         By Walter A. Friedman (
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Mass.
                    : Harvard University Press, 2005. Pp. 356. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $16.95.)
                InBirth of a Salesman, Walter Friedman traces the history of salesmanship in the 
                        U. S.
                     from the itinerant peddlers of the early 1800s to the media strategists of our own
                    time. In this systematic, yet lively and energetic history, Friedman argues that "the
                    'visible hand' of management, to borrow a phrase from historian Alfred D.
                    Chandler, Jr., could not have succeeded in many industries without the 'visible
                    handshake' of a team of salesmen out on the road" (p. 7). Historians typically
                    disdain the idea of studying sales: it reeks of manipulation and crass consumerism. But Friedman
                    shows that many useful products-from lightning rods to adding machines to serious books- might never
                    have succeeded on the market had they not been promoted door-to-door by persuasive peddlers and
                    bought by farmers and townsfolk who discovered value in what they were purchasing.
                Many of the principles of modern sales, as the author shows, were developed by door-to-door salesmen
                    in the 1800s. For example, Mark Twain's sales force used peer pressure and appeals to
                    vanity to sell over 300,000 copies of President Grant's Memoirs (1886). The risk-adverse
                    nature of farmers offered peddlers the clues they needed to devise effective means of marketing
                    lightning rods. Friedman argues that the emergence of the mail-order business, the department store,
                    and national magazines- all emphasizing national markets-led to the decline, but not the fall, of
                    such peddling strategies. Twentieth-century products, such as office machines and vacuum cleaners,
                         proved better sold door-to-door because prospects needed to
                    see the product in action before they discovered their desire to buy it.
                By the 1920s, with the increased dominance of national advertising, executives learned the art of
                    selling from a growing array of books and classes. Friedman does a fine job investigating how such
                    standardized sources helped to convince sellers of cars, furniture, and washing machines to move
                    toward installment buying. The Great Depression, of course, devastated business, but here too
                    Friedman finds innovation and adaptability; as in the case of the Coca Cola Company, which succeeded
                    by investing in hundreds of Coca Cola servicemen who helped control product quality in 100,000 soda
                    fountains throughout the country.
                The increased authority of government in the 1930s changed strategies in selling. An appeal to a
                    politician might be worth a thousand appeals to consumers. IBM's Thomas J. Watson, for
                    example, supported FDR in politics and Roosevelt supported IBM in securing the punch-card business
                    for the new Social Security program and for military work during World War II. No wonder salesmen at
                    IBM conventions sang "You're Our Leader Fine" to Watson with such vigor!
                Friedman often writes with irony. "Salespeople themselves are disliked," he writes,
                    but "[t]he logic of salesmanship is relentless" (p. 267). Sales has been a large
                    part of American economic growth because people respond to it. They decide they want the products
                    even if they often dislike the methods used to sell them. Friedman has written a fine book and it
                    deserves a wide reading.
                BURTON FOLSOM, JR., is professor of history at Hillsdale College in 
                        Hillsdale
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
            
                Raising Consumers Children and the American Mass Market in the Early Twentieth
                        Century By Lisa Jacobson (
                        New York
                    : Columbia University Press, 2004. Pp. xiii, 299. Illustrations, photographs, notes,
                    index. $37.00.)
                Arguing that the commercialization of American childhood preceded the rise of "the
                    television age and post-war affluence" (p. 1), Lisa Jacobson asserts that the child
                    consumer played an important role in the early decades of the twentieth century. Children, as the
                    bearers of modernity, gained authority and autonomy through their participation in the increasingly
                    powerful consumer capitalism of the 1920s and 1930s when a growing  emphasis on the fulfillment of personal desire altered the nature of
                    family relationships, moral authority, and social hierarchies. By examining children's
                    position in American consumer society, Raising Consumers locates
                    children's place at the center of American history by demonstrating their influence on the
                    marketplace as well as on the family and the home.
                Early in the twentieth century, advertisers identified children as prospective allies in
                    manufacturers' efforts to sell household products to American families and as a lucrative
                    market segment in and of themselves. During the 1920s and 1930s, in particular, educators and
                    childrearing authorities effectively changed their objective in financial education for children;
                    rather than stressing children's role as savers, school programs and parental advice
                    literature encouraged parents to train their children to become savvy consumers. Their message often
                    bore a distinctly middle-class quality; they encouraged parents to set up elaborate playrooms for
                    their children in order to facilitate development and creativity, and they advised the distribution
                    of weekly allowances to teach financial responsibility. Advertisements and promotions played into
                    these educational ideals, suggesting that young boys might develop "masculine"
                    characteristics-reason, entrepreneurial ambition, and intelligence-to enhance their consumer role.
                    This ideal young consumer-always male, white, and middle-class-had a sense for business and could
                    advise his parents on major household purchases.
                Despite adults' efforts to shape consumerism's influence, the increased
                    significance of peer relationships tremendously affected the role of consumerism in
                    children's lives. Jacobson points to the importance of advertising-filled magazines
                    published by groups such as the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and Campfire Girls. Merit badges might be
                    earned through the use of nationally branded products, and scouts might impress their friends by
                    using these products. Children participated in contests featured in other such publications, and
                    advertisers courted their brand loyalty with promises of prizes and group belonging. As children
                    entered adolescence, their ability to afford a multitude of other products and activities-ranging
                    from clothing and cosmetics to movies and dances-further shaped their peer relations. Jacobson does
                    well to address the adolescent specifically, but she does so somewhat irregularly. The reader
                    sometimes questions differences in consumer attitudes among children of various ages; greater
                    attention to this variation would have been a welcome addition to Jacobson's analysis.
                Even as Jacobson focuses primarily on the middle-class child, her work sets the stage for future
                    research that might engage more fully race-, class-, and region-based differences in consumption
                    patterns. Perhaps Jacobson's greatest contribution to the  historiography of consumerism is her description of a middle ground
                    between ideas of children as either victims of marketing and media or totally autonomous purchasers.
                    Rather than locating power entirely in the hands of business, media, parents, or children,
                    Jacobson's history emphasizes the complex interactions among these groups. This analysis
                    contributes to our historical understanding of both the child consumer and American consumerism more
                    broadly.
                KAREN M. DUNAK is a Ph.D. candidate at Indiana University. She currently is at work on a
                    dissertation about the transformation of the wedding ceremony in post-World War II America.
            
            
                Presidential Leadership From Woodrow Wilson to Harry S. Truman By
                    Robert H. Ferrell (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 2006. Pp. viii, 168. Illustrations, notes, sources.
                    $29.95.)
                Harry S. Truman and the Cold War Revisionists By Robert H. Ferrell (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 2006. Pp. ix, 142. Photographs, notes, sources, index.
                    $24.95.)
                Robert H. Ferrell's two new books explore topics that he has studied for decades: the
                    qualities that distinguish the American presidency in general and the career and reputation of Harry
                    S. Truman in particular. I have had the pleasure and honor of knowing Ferrell for nearly 20 years,
                    ever since I took his diplomatic history course at Indiana University in the spring of 1987. I
                    remember him saying then that people would eventually come around to his view of Truman as one of
                    the top two presidents (the other being Lincoln) in 
                        U.S.
                     history. To the extent that they have, that shift in reputation may owe much to
                    Ferrell's own prolific writings on the man: writing done, as I later learned, through a
                    diligent regimen that included placing a towel under the door of his seventh-floor Ballantine Hall
                    office each morning so that no one could see that he was there working.
                Ferrell's latest two books are of interest to anyone who has followed his work over the
                    years. Presidential Leadership includes well-written essays on Woodrow Wilson,
                    Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Harry S. Truman, as well as an interview between Ferrell and
                    historian John A. Garraty on the subject of American foreign affairs from 1919- 1945. Ferrell shows
                    that Wilson and his John Hopkins protege, Secretary of War Newton A. Baker, poorly man-  aged the war effort. For instance, they thoroughly botched efforts to
                    manufacture black powder by mishandling relations with the DuPont Company. Wilson was ill-fitted for
                    the role of commander-in-chief, the author maintains, since he-to put it in the parlance of young
                    Bill Clinton-loathed the military. Regarding Harding, Ferrell sees an outright conspiracy-if that is
                    not too strong a word-to destroy the late president's reputation. Nan Britton's
                    claim that Harding had fathered her son, another author's claim (later repudiated) that
                    Harding was poisoned, and the scandals, which Ferrell does not see as particularly weighty, all
                    worked to degrade people's estimation of the twenty-ninth president. Ferrell also looks at
                    the various "debunkers" of Harding including the Sage of Balti- more, H. L.
                    Mencken. Coolidge, the legendarily terse Vermonter, was an uptight man who suppressed his anger in
                    public, only to blow up in private with his family. Despite these unattractive personal qualities,
                    Ferrell writes, the White House during the Coolidge era was a pleasant place to visit.
                The Garraty interview is a tour d'horizon of American foreign policy from
                    1919 to 1945 that covers the League of Nations, interwar isolationism, the Stimson Doctrine,
                    Roosevelt's intentions vis-a-vis the Japanese prior to Pearl Harbor, and new left
                    revisionism, among other topics. The final essay deals with Ferrell's favorite subject-and
                    favorite president-Truman. Ferrell touts the thirty-third president for transform- ing an
                    isolationist country that sporadically intervened in European affairs into a nation perpetually
                    engaged with the world.
                In Harry Truman and the Cold War Revisionists, Ferrell turns explicitly to cold war
                    historiography. Ferrell has written about the revisionists before: his essay in Richard
                    Kirkendall's The Truman Period as a Research Field: A Reappraisal (1972)
                    effectively demolished the revisionists as a group. A major culprit now, as was then, is Gar
                    Alperovitz, the historian who concluded that Truman ordered atomic bombs dropped on 
                        Hiroshima
                     and 
                        Nagasaki
                     solely to intimidate the Russians-an accusation Ferrell shows to be baseless. Noting
                    the socialist sentiments that motivated many of the revisionists, he adds that most were in any case
                    too young to have remembered the outbreak of World War II. He points out the contradiction of the
                    revisionists who argue that economic forces made the cold war inevitable but then assert that it
                    might have been avoided had certain voices been heeded. Ferrell takes revisionists to task for their
                    sloppy and sometimes even deceptive methodology, their citation of irrelevant documents, and their
                    mistaken assertion that Truman reversed Franklin Roosevelt's foreign policy toward the
                    Soviets when he assumed office. The author also demonstrates that 
                        U.S.
                     armed forces were eviscerated by post-demobiliza- 
                    tion with the consequence that the nation had nothing with which to back up its diplomacy.
                A final note to those interested in the 
                        Indiana
                     aspects of the books: in his volume on cold war revisionism, Ferrell notes that one of
                    Truman's favorite historians was Hoosier Claude Bowers, the chronicler of Thomas Jefferson
                    and Albert J. Beveridge.
                TRACY S. UEBELHOR teaches at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He recently published a revision of Facts on File's Presidential
                        Profiles: The Truman Years (2006) and is currently working on a book on the 1956
                    renomination of Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon.
            
            
            
                RECENT ARTICLES, BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, DISSERTATIONS, AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS IN 
                        INDIANA
                     HISTORY
                Compiled by SUZANNE HAHN, Indiana Historical Society
                
                    Aamidor, Abraham, Chuck Taylor, Converse All Star: The True Story of the Man
                            Behind the Most Famous Athletic Shoe in History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Adams, Wendy L., and Elizabeth Osborn, In Memoriam: Glimpses from 
                                Indiana's
                             Legal Past (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Supreme Court, 2006).
                    Allen, Emily Comstock, "Mildred Hall: Schoolteacher and Social Activist,"
                            Black History News & Notes, 28 (August 2006).
                    Anderson, Theo, "Back Home Again (and Again) in 
                            Indiana
                        : E. Howard Cadle, Christian Populism, and the Resilience of American
                        Fundamentalism," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (December 2006).
                    Bakken, Dawn E., "A Young Hoosier's Adventures on the Mississippi River," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (March 2006).
                    Bassett, Beth, "Newton County Posts of the Grand Army of the Republic,"
                        Newton County Historical Society Newcomer, 11 (Winter 2006).
                    Bauman, Stephanida, "The Move to Segregation in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Schools, 1920-1929," Black History News &
                            Notes, 28 (August 2006).
                    Beck, Bill, St. Vincent: The Spirit of Caring: 1881-2006: Celebrating 125
                        Years (
                            Indianapolis
                        : St. Vincent Health, 2006).
                    Bell, Trudy E., "Forgotten Waters: 
                            Indiana's
                         Great Easter Flood of 1913," Traces of 
                                Indiana
                             and Midwestern History, 18 (Spring 2006).
                    Bodenhamer, David J., and Randall T. Shepard, The History of 
                                Indiana
                             Law (
                            Athens
                        : Ohio University Press, 2006).
                    Boomhower, Ray E., The Soldier's Friend: A Life of Ernie Pyle (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    -----"Uncommon Valor: David M. Shoup and the Battle of Tarawa," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Summer 2006).
                    
                    Brockman, Paul, "Ole Olsen: A Likable Lad Loaded with Laughs," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Spring 2006).
                    Brown, James W, and Karen Powell, "Found: One Hoosier Gold Seeker who 'Was
                        Never Seen Again,"' The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections,
                        46, No. 1 (2006).
                    Buchanan, Thomas C., "Race and (In) justice on the Mississippi: An Episode from
                        'The Journals of the Davy Crockett'," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, 102 (March 2006).
                    Carr, Cynthia, Our Town: A Heartland Lynching, A Haunted Town, and the Hidden
                            History of White America (
                            New York
                        : Crown Publishers, 2006).
                    Cava, Pete, "From Basement to Bordello: The 1887 
                            Indianapolis
                         Hoosiers Baseball Team," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 18 (Fall 2006).
                    "The Civil City: An Interview with William H. Hudnut, III," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (September 2006).
                    Clanin, Douglas E., "Military Records in Federal and 
                            Indiana
                         State Repositories," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                        Connections, 46, No. 2 (2006).
                    Conn, Earl L., My 
                                Indiana
                            : 101 Places to See (
                             Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    Conner, Nancy Nakano, "From Internment to 
                            Indiana
                        : Japanese Americans, the War Relocation Authority, the Disciples of Christ, and
                        Citizen Communities in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (June 2006).
                    Connor, Lawrence S., "I Remember When: The Cop Shop," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Fall 2006).
                    Connor, Tina, "Manufactured Houses Offered Many the American Dream," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December 2005).
                    Crow, Amy Johnson, "Researching Your 
                            Indiana
                         Civil War Ancestors," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                        Connections, 46, No. 2 (2006).
                    Daly, Walter J., "The 'Slows': The Torment of Milk Sickness on the
                        Midwest Frontier," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (March 2006).
                    Daniels, Kevin, Mike Golic, and Rob Doster, Game Day: Notre Dame Football: The
                            Greatest Games, Players, Coaches and Teams in the Glorious Tradition of Fighting Irish
                            Football (
                            Chicago
                        : Triumph Books, 2006).
                    "The Day the Liberty Bell Came to Town," Old Fort News,
                        69, No. 2 (2006). [To 
                            Fort Wayne
                        .]
                    Divita, James J., 
                                Indianapolis
                             Italians (
                            Charleston
                        , 
                            S.C.
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2006).
                    Dollase, Mark, "Rebellious Vision Faces Middle Age," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December 2005). [Modernism architectural style.]
                    "Downtown 
                            Indy
                        ," Indianapolis Postcard Club (Winter 2006).
                    
                    DuBois, William, Jr., "
                            Indiana
                         to 
                            Kansas
                        , 
                            Oregon
                        , and Beyond: Tracing Warnocks from Jay County," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist: Connections, 46, No. 3 (2006).
                    Etter, John P, The 
                                Indiana
                             Legion: A Civil War Militia (
                            Carmel
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        : Hawthorne Publications, 2006).
                    Fadely, James Philip, "The Veteran and the Memorial: George J. Langsdale and the
                        Soldiers and Sailors Monument," Traces of 
                                Indiana
                             and Midwestern History, 18 (Winter 2006).
                    Featherstone, Ray, "The Side of a Barn: 
                            Indiana's
                         Mail Pouch Tobacco Signs," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 18 (Fall 2006).
                    Firstenberger, WA., "
                            Indiana's
                         Sacred Mount Hood: The Billy Sunday Home," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, 18 (Spring 2006).
                    Font, Walter, "The First Alert Hook and Ladder Company," Old
                            Fort News, 69, No. 2 (2006).
                    Geelhoed, E. Bruce, "Rainbow Soldier: Vernon Kniptash and World War I," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Spring 2006).
                    Giffin, William Wayne, The Irish (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    Graham, Tom, and Rachel Cody, Getting Open: The Unknown Story of Bill Garrett and
                            the Integration of College Basketball (
                            New York
                        : Atria Books, 2006).
                    Gray, Ralph D., "Hoosier Author as Diplomat: Meredith Nicholson in Latin America,
                        1933-1941," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (September 2006).
                    -----"Miracle on Michigan Street: IUPUI and Its Neighborhood," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Winter 2006).
                    Grimes, Ron, and Jane Ammeson, Madison (
                            Charleston
                        , 
                            S.C.
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2006).
                    Grunden, Russell, "Our State Parks in History: 1916: The Beginning," Outdoor Indiana, 71 (January/February 2006).
                    Guffey, Greg, The Golden Age of Indiana High School Basketball (
                            Bloomington
                        : Quarry Books/Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Gugin, Linda C., and James E. St. Clair, eds., The Governors of 
                                Indiana
                             (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press in cooperation with the Indiana Historical
                        Bureau, 2006).
                    Gugin, Linda C., James E. St. Clair, and Thomas P. Wolf, "
                            Indiana
                         and Its Chief Executives: From The Governors of 
                                Indiana
                            ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18
                        (Fall 2006).
                    Hahn, Suzanne, "Focus: Hidden Treasures: James Whitcomb Riley and Eugene
                        Field," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Spring 2006).
                    
                    Harper, Glenn, "The National Road: Helping Build 
                            America
                        ," Timeline, 23 (December 2006).
                    Hernandez, Herb, "Early Latinos in 
                            Allen County
                        : A Brief 'Historias' of the Pioneers until
                        1950," Old Fort News, 69, No. 2 (2006).
                    Hibben, George C., "The Hibben Family Merchants of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections, 46, No. 3
                        (2006).
                    Hibben, Stuart G., Aristocrat and Proletarian: The Extraordinary Life of Paxton
                            Pattison Hibben (
                            Tamarac
                        , 
                            Fla.
                        : Llumina Press, 2006).
                    Hickey, M. Gail, "Asian Indians in 
                            Indiana
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (June 2006).
                    Hiner, Jason, Mac's Boys: Branch McCracken and the Legendary 1953
                            Hurryin' Hoosiers (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Howell, Damon, "The Amish Settlements of 
                            Newton County
                        ," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer, 11 (Spring
                        2006).
                    Immel, Mary Blair, "Dismissed Union Officer Delivers Fourth of July Speech in
                        1863," The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections, 46, No. 1 (2006).
                    Jaquess, Asbury C., "'The Journals of the Davy Crockett commencing December
                        20th 1834,'" Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (March 2006).
                    Jones, Marty, "The Thirty-One-Day Presidency," American
                        History, 41 (April 2006). [Of William Henry Harrison.]
                    Justice, Noel D., Looking at Prehistory: 
                                Indiana's
                            
                            Hoosier
                                National Forest Region, 12,000 B.C. to 1650 ([
                            Washington,
                            D.C.
                        ]: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, 2006).
                    Kruse, Maxine, Bedford (
                            Charleston
                        , 
                            S.C.
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2006).
                    Lane, James B., "The Uncertainty of Everyday Life: A Social History of the Calumet
                        Region during the 1980s," Steel Shavings, 38 (2007).
                    -----"Triumph over Travail: The Katherine Hyndman Story," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Winter 2006).
                    Lynch, Doria, "The African American Legacy in 
                            Gibson County
                        , Indiana," The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections, 46, No.
                        3 (2006).
                    Madison, James H., Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977, 2nd ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    Martin, John, "A Symphony of Nature and Architecture: J. Frederick Larson's
                        Hanover College Campus," Ohio Valley History, 6 (Fall 2006).
                    McFarland, Bernard C., "From the 'Bottoms' to the Top: The Frank R.
                        Beckwith Story," Black History News & Notes, 28 (November
                        2006).
                    Middleton, Richard, "Pontiac: Local Warrior or Pan-Indian Leader?," The Michigan Historical Review, 32 (Fall 2006).
                    "Military Greetings and Scenes," Indianapolis Postcard
                        Club (Summer 2006).
                    
                    Mohon, Timothy, "Comprehending Church Records for Genealogical Research,"
                            The Hoosier Genealogist: Connections, 46, No. 1 (2006).
                    Monroe County Retired Teachers Association, comp., Echoes from One-Room Schools: 
                                Monroe County
                            , 
                                Indiana
                             (
                            Bloomington
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        : AuthorHouse, 2006).
                    Morrison, Carol Parks, Presbyterian Pioneers Confronting the Culture, 1843-2006:
                            The 
                                Indiana
                             Attica-Williamsport Presbyterian Church (
                            Longwood
                        , 
                            Fla.
                        : Xulon Press, 2006).
                    Mullins, Paul R., "Archaeology and Urban Renewal on 
                            Indianapolis's
                         Near West Side," Black History News & Notes, 28
                        (February 2006).
                    Musgrave, Paul, "'A Primitive Method of Enforcing the Law':
                        Vigilantism as a Response to Bank Crimes in 
                            Indiana
                        , 1925-1933," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (September
                        2006).
                    Ogorek, Cynthia L., "Bartlett's Souvenirs: Beverly Shores's Century
                        of Progress Houses," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18
                        (Summer 2006).
                    
                                Orange County
                             Historic Sites and Structures: An Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2006).
                    "Otho Winger and Manchester College," Newsletter of the North
                            Manchester Historical Society, 23 (February 2006).
                    Perry, Rachel Berenson, "Charles Yeager: Teacher and Artist," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Summer 2006).
                    Pitzer, Donald E., "Harmoniefest: Unison, Harmony, and Discord in
                        the Harmony Society," Communal Societies, 26 (Number One, 2006).
                    Price, Nelson, "How Dear to our Heart: The Career of Emily Kimbrough," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Fall 2006).
                    Quigley, Barbara, "Focus: Going West: The 1913 
                            Indiana
                        -Pacific Indiana Automobile Manufacturers Association Tour," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Winter 2006).
                    Reinhart, Joseph R., August Willich's Gallant Dutchmen: Civil War
                            Letters from the 32nd 
                                Indiana
                             Infantry (
                            Kent
                        , 
                            Oh.
                        : Kent State University Press, 2006).
                    Renwick, Laura, "Southern 
                            Indiana
                         Trail Marks Path of Confederate Raid," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February 2006).
                    Rund, Christopher, The Indiana Rail Road Company: 
                                America's
                             New Regional Railroad (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    St. Joseph County: Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2006).
                    Sanders, Craig, Amtrak in the Heartland (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Seidl, Gregg, 
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                         (
                            Charleston
                        , 
                            S.C.
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2006).
                    
                    Seigel, Peggy, "Winning the Vote in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        : The Long, Cautious Journey in a German American City," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (September 2006).
                    Shepard, Randall T., State of the Judiciary: '
                                Indiana's
                             Place in American Court Reform: Rarely First, Occasionally Last, Frequently
                            Early' ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : [s.n.], 2006).
                    Smith, David L., "Hoosier Hollywood Cowboys: The Careers of Buck Jones and Ken
                        Maynard," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 18 (Winter 2006).
                    -----Hoosiers in Hollywood (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    
                                Switzerland County
                            : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2006).
                    Tandy, Kisha, "Roberts Cemetery Association Records, 1873-1911," Black History News & Notes, 28 (February 2006).
                    Towne, Stephen E., "
                            Indiana
                         Civil War Military Service Records," The Hoosier Genealogist:
                            Connections, 46, No. 2 (2006).
                    -----"Killing the Serpent Speedily: Governor Morton, General Hascall, and the
                        Suppression of the Democratic Press in 
                            Indiana
                        , 1863," Civil War History, 52 (March 2006).
                    -----"'Such conduct must be put down': The Military Arrest of Judge
                        Charles H. Constable during the Civil War," Journal of Illinois
                        History, 9 (Spring 2006).
                    Waite, Gerald E., "Lost and Found: 
                            Indiana's
                         County Fairs," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        18 (Summer 2006).
                    Waller, George MacGregor, Butler University: A Sesquicentennial History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Watson, Tom, and Jim McGarrah, eds., Home Again: Essays and Memoirs from 
                                Indiana
                             (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006).
                    Welpott, Jack, Driving to Stony Lonesome: Jack Welpott's 
                                Indiana
                             Photographs, 1936-1959 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Quarry Books/Indiana University Press, 2006).
                    Wilkinson, William Clayton, Jr., "Memories of the Ku Klux Klan in One 
                            Indiana
                         Town," Indiana Magazine of History, 102 (December 2006). [
                            North Judson
                        , 
                            Starke County
                        .]
                    Zimmer, Barbara E., "John A. Patton, Business and Civic Leader," Black History News & Notes, 28 (May 2006).
                
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
