
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 103, Issue 4, pages 349-468. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:103+issue:4+year:2008&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                 "An Unusual Case": Dan Shay, Clarence Euell, Gertrude Anderson, and the Limits of Hoosier
                    Progressivism 
                David Jones
                One of 
                        Indianapolis's
                     most prominent landmarks, a physical embodiment of the city's Hoosier boosterism and
                    cosmopolitan aspirations, the English Hotel and Opera House had loomed over Governor's Square (later
                    Monument Circle) since its completion in 1880. Built by William Hayden English, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessman, congressman, and one-time Democratic candidate for Vice President of the 
                        United States
                    , the hotel's facade featured two towers and bas-relief sculptures of 
                         David Jones is a doctoral student in African history at the University at Albany, where he received
                            his master's degree in 
                                United States
                             history in 2007. A former researcher at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 
                                Cooperstown
                            , 
                                New York
                            , Jones is the author of Joe DiMaggio: A Biography (2004) and the editor
                            of Deadball Stars of the American League (2007). The author wishes to thank Dr. Amy
                            Murrell Taylor and Dr. Richard Hamm of the University at Albany, as well as the anonymous reader of an
                            early draft, for their assistance in the planning and writing of this article. For help in gathering
                            the materials used to complete this manuscript, he acknowledges the staffs at the Indiana State
                            Library, Indiana Historical Society, the library for the Archdiocese of Indianapolis, the National
                            Baseball Hall of Fame, the Clark County (Ohio) Public Library, the University at Albany Library, 
                                Indiana
                             historian Glory-June Greiff, and baseball historian Dick Thompson. Finally, he thanks
                            Eric Sandweiss, Cynthia Gwynne Yaudes, and the rest of the staff of the IMH for
                            their assistance and support throughout the editing of this article.
                    
                    
                    
                         The English Hotel and Opera House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915 The hotel occupied the entire northwest quarter of Monument Circle. The hotel cafe,
                            site of Clarence Euells murder, stands to the right of the lobby entrance in this view. Bass Photo
                            Company Collection, Indiana Historical Society
                     past 
                        Indiana
                     governors. Its 2,500-seat theater, whose 100-foot-long entrance corridor was graced by frescoed
                    walls, marble pillars, and a grand staircase, had hosted the likes of Sarah Bernhardt and George M. Cohan.
                But when 
                        Indianapolis
                     Police Lieutenant Herbert R. Fletcher and Sergeant John Sheehan stepped into the English Hotel
                    lobby late in the evening of May 3, 1917, they were not hunting for celebrities or entertainment. In the
                    corner of the lobby, across from the sweeping marble staircase and large mirrors, sat Clarence Euell, a
                    30-year-old waiter employed at the hotel cafe. Euell was doubled over in pain, moaning as blood seeped out of
                    his abdomen from a single gunshot wound. Soon an ambulance would arrive to take him to City Hospital, but
                    within an hour, Euell would be dead.
                Fletcher and Sheehan went upstairs to the room of Dan Shay, 40, a former major league baseball player and
                    current manager of the Milwaukee Brewers, a minor league club in the American Association.  Immediately the officers noticed the abrasions on Shay's face; they could
                    smell the liquor on his breath. He was either intoxicated or dazed, or both, the officers concluded. To most
                    of their questions Shay proved unresponsive, though he did make one statement that both Fletcher and Sheehan
                    would later repeat in open court: "The nigger called me a--and made a pass at me and I shot him.1
                More than six months later, Shay would display far more eloquence following his acquittal of second-degree
                    murder charges by an 
                        Indianapolis
                     jury. After declaring that he had known all along he would be acquitted, Shay added, "I felt
                    any fair-minded man would look at the case in the same light the jury did. I want to thank the jury publicly
                    for their verdict; the judge, for his many courtesies extended; my attorneys, who so diligently defended my
                    position, and the people in general, the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who understand the situation. Of course it was in some respects an unusual case, but now I am
                    glad it is all over.2
                To anyone familiar with the unequal treatment of African Americans in courts throughout the 
                        United States
                     during the twentieth century, the story of Shay's acquittal for the murder of Euell, a black
                    man, is typical: despite eyewitness testimonies to the killing and the defense's inconsistent, shifting
                    explanations of the event, a jury of Shay's white male peers found the former major leaguer not guilty,
                    thereby implicitly accepting the defense's argument that Euell, the "bad nigger" from Indiana
                    Avenue, had been responsible for provoking Shay and causing his own death. Knowing that the trial occurred
                    just a few years before the astounding rise of the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and that both the trial judge and at least one member of the jury would later become Klan
                    members themselves, makes the outcome of the trial seem entirely foreordained.
                However, a closer examination of the social concerns of 
                        Indianapolis's
                     white community, the events surrounding Euell's death, and the arguments made by both the
                    prosecution and defense at Shay's trial reveals a more complicated picture. Certainly the defense
                    manipulated the jury by playing on white fears of black men, but the prosecution engaged in demagoguery of its
                    own. Shay's trial took place a few months after 
                        Indiana
                     passed legislation prohibiting the sale of alcohol in 
                        1Indianapolis Star, November 17, 1917
                        2Indiana Daily Times, November 22, 1917.
                    
                     the state. Accordingly, the prosecution offered the jury a stereotype of
                    Shay, the son of Irish-Catholic immigrants, as a man whose addiction to alcohol had clouded his judgment and
                    endangered the community. For nearly two weeks in a 
                        Marion County
                     courtroom, the prosecution appealed to the community's suspicion of the immoral outsider who
                    haunted 
                        Indianapolis's
                     bars and brothels, threatening the social fabric by drinking to excess and consorting with loose
                    women, while the defense attempted to exploit the jury's racial fears. Seen from both perspectives, the
                    trial becomes less a contest over evidence, testimony, and eyewitnesses to the shooting itself, and more a
                    conflict between the racial and moral prerogatives of 
                        Indiana's
                     overwhelmingly white Protestant community. The trial centered not on facts (which were never in
                    dispute) but on competing images of the body: on one side, the oversexed, angry, and hulking black male; on
                    the other, the dissolute, red faced, drunken Irishman whose very breath communicated the poison that
                    threatened the community.3 Jurors were called to choose between these two images; the
                    choice that they made reflected their understandings of the prevailing social order, what made it function,
                    and what (or who) posed its greatest threat. That they ultimately chose racial defense over social reform
                    should not cloud our ability to see the complexity of the contrasting images that vied for their favor during
                    the course of the trial. Though the trial's outcome was predictable, it was not inevitable.
                The discourses of racial and social threat that suffused Shay's murder trial were themselves mediated by
                    the presence of Gertrude Anderson, a white prostitute who had accompanied Shay to the English Hotel and
                    witnessed the events leading up to the shooting. For the defense, Anderson performed the ideal function of
                    reminding the jury of the threat that black male sexuality posed to white female virtue. For the prosecution,
                    however, Anderson presented a formidable problem. Her 
                        
                            3 A potent point of discourse, trials are arenas invested with state power, where
                            various representations of truth circulate and compete. In some trials, legal discussion is situated
                            around the body or depictions of the body vis-a-vis class. See Michel Foucault's Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison (
                                New York
                            , 1995), Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of
                                Reason (
                                London
                            , 2001), and The History of Sexuality, 3 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 1990) for an analysis. In other cases, race and gender help to constitute discourse
                            about the body. Jennifer L. Morgan's Laboring Women: Reproduction and Gender in New
                                World Slavery (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 2004) assesses the way images of female slaves' bodies were used in discussions
                            about race, reproduction, and gender in the New World. This discourse, she argues, ultimately shaped
                            relationships between slaves and slaveholders.
                    
                     low social status and her profession served as markers of the social
                    disintegration which Shay symbolized, but her gender made her a dangerous and elusive target. Despite numerous
                    insinuations, the prosecution proved unwilling to challenge her virtue directly or to ask her why she had
                    decided to accompany Shay to the hotel on the night of the shooting. Anderson's role in 
                        Indianapolis's
                     vice industry was thus relegated to the margins of the trial, occupying an uncomfortable space
                    marked by innuendo and clouded in silence. The tasks of filling the gaps in Anderson's testimony and of
                    making sense of the entire trial were left to the jury, to the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis, and to
                    the city's press.
                In a year when harrowing reports from the European front dominated the news cycle, the arrest of Dan Shay and
                    his subsequent trial and acquittal gave the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     a sensational diversion, as the affair was chronicled extensively, sometimes breathlessly, by the
                    city's three daily newspapers: the Indianapolis News, the Indianapolis
                        Star, and the Indiana Daily Times. In addition, three African American weeklies,
                        The Freeman, the Indianapolis Colored World, and the Indianapolis Recorder, provided more limited coverage of the case and its aftermath,4 reflecting not only their smaller circulation, but also the precarious position of 
                        Indianapolis's
                     black community, members of which often relied on the patronage of white city officials to
                    maintain their marginal economic standing and their access to political power. These papers struggled to tell
                    the story in a way that allowed them to survive in the context of 
                        Indiana's
                     long and turbulent history of racial conflict.
                Although slavery in 
                        Indiana
                     had been outlawed by the constitution of 1816, legislators worked to make sure that the state
                    remained "white man's country." In 1831, the General Assembly passed a law stipulating that any
                    African American entering the state without a certificate of freedom would be declared a fugitive slave,
                    turned over to the sheriff, and advertised as a runaway.5 By 1850 delegates gathered in
                    convention to adopt a revised state constitution, influenced by strong support from the 
                        
                            4 Unfortunately, 1917 to 1926 are the "lost years" for the Indianapolis Recorder, as no known copies of the newspaper have survived either in their
                            original form or in microfilm. Undoubtedly the Recorder, the most radical of the
                            black newspapers, covered the incident, though to what extent is unknown.
                        
                            5 Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in 
                                    Indiana
                                 Before 1900: A Study of a Minority (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 58. 
                    
                     state's southern counties for the passage of Article XIII, which
                    stated that "No negro or mulatto shall come into, or settle in the State, after the adoption of this
                        Constitution."6 Though Article XIII was only sporadically enforced after
                    ratification of the new constitution the following year, it did severely curtail black migration into the
                    state. Where 
                        Indiana's
                     blacks had comprised just 1.1 percent of the state's population in 1850, that figure had
                    dropped to 0.8 percent a decade later.7
                The 
                        Indiana
                     Supreme Court struck down Article XIII in 1866, and soon tens of thousands of African Americans,
                    most of them former slaves, began streaming into the state from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Between 1860 and 1880, the state's black population increased from 11,428 to 39,228. By
                    1900, the number exceeded 57,000.8
                
                        Indianapolis's
                     black population grew in the same period from just 498 to nearly 16,000 with migrants seeking
                    better employment opportunities and education for their children.9 Local authorities used
                    intimidation tactics to corral the arriving blacks within their own neighborhoods, generally on or adjacent to
                    Indiana Avenue.10
                One of the nineteenth-century arrivals was James Euell, father of Clarence, who first appears in the city
                    directories in 1888. By that time, James had been married to his wife Jennie for four years, and their first
                    child, Clarence, was two years old. Both James and Jennie had been born in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1851, indicating they were probably former slaves.
                Once in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , James, Jennie, and Clarence settled on Hadley Drive, just off Indiana Avenue, in the northwest
                    quadrant of the city. The 1900 census shows that two other children had joined then-13-year-old Clarence in
                    the Euell family: 10-year-old Ida, and 9-year-old Julia; all three of them were attending a segregated
                        school.11 James 
                        
                            6 At the time of the convention, southerners still represented the largest
                            regional contingent in the Hoosier state. A review of the 1850 census shows that 44 percent of 
                                Indiana's
                             population hailed from the South, compared to 31.4 percent from 
                                Ohio
                            , 19.9 percent from the Mid-Atlantic states, and 2.7 percent from New England. James
                            Madison, The 
                                    Indiana
                                 Way: A State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1990), 62. 
                        
                            7 Figures derived from Thornbrough, The Negro in 
                                    Indiana
                                 Before 1900, 44.
                        
                            8 Ibid., 206.
                        
                            9 Ibid., 229.
                        
                            10 Carolyn M. Brady, The Transformation of a Neighborhood: Ransom
                                Place Historic District, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1900-1920 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1996), 9-23.
                        
                            11 All schools in 
                                Indiana
                             at the time were segregated. U.S., Twelfth Census: 1900: Series T623, Roll 388, Book 1,
                            pp. 311a-312, http://www.heritagequestonline.com.
                    
                     worked as a "day laborer," an occupation he had held since his
                    arrival and would maintain for the next 30 years. The city's best jobs remained closed to blacks, despite
                    their increasing education, and most white unions similarly excluded African Americans from their ranks.
                    Although he was educated, Clarence Euell would hold only one job: waiter at the English Cafe.12
                The Great Migration that occurred between 1900 and 1920 did not produce a remarkable surge in 
                        Indianapolis's
                     African American population as it did in nearby urban centers such as 
                        Chicago
                     or 
                        Detroit
                    . 
                        Indianapolis's
                     black population increased by 59 percent during these decades, compared with 148 percent for 
                        Chicago
                     and 611 percent for 
                        Detroit
                    .13 In addition, as African American migrants moved into 
                        Indianapolis
                    , so did their white counterparts, and in significantly larger numbers. The city's white
                    population increased by 126,233 during the same period; the black population increased by 18,747.14 Those white migrants who did enter the city came overwhelmingly from 
                        Indianapolis's
                     rural counties, and predominantly from the southern part of the state.15
                Not surprisingly, the white migrants brought with them their own ideas and prejudices about race relations, and
                    as a result 
                        Indianapolis's
                     racial climate became noticeably more tense. As one migrant explained to Ray Stannard Baker,
                    "There are too many Negroes up here; they hurt the city." Another white resident added
                    prophetically, "I suppose sooner or later we shall have to adopt some of the restrictions of the
                        South."16
                In the summer of 1901, a gang of more than 150 white men chased black citizens out of suburban 
                        Indianapolis's
                     Fairview Park, beating them with clubs and rocks. A dozen blacks were injured in the riot, but
                        
                        
                            12 Based on a review of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             City Directories, 1900-1917. See, for example, R. L. Polk and Co.'s 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory 1917 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 513.
                        
                            13 Carolyn M.Brady, " 
                                Indianapolis
                             at the Time of the Great Migration:1900-1920,"
                            www.carolynbrady.com/idymigration.html.
                        
                            14 Derived from population figures published in David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G.
                            Barrows, eds., The Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1994), 1504-1510. 
                        
                            15 Between 1900 and 1920, the population of 
                                Indiana's
                             central counties grew by 23.2 percent, with 
                                Marion County's
                             increasing by 76.5 percent. The population of the 
                                Gary
                            -
                                South Bend
                            -
                                Fort Wayne
                             corridor increased by 25.6 percent. Southern 
                                Indiana's
                             population decreased by 0.6 percent. Clifton J. Phillips, 
                                    Indiana
                                 in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968) and http:// www.census.gov/population/cencounts/in190090.txt.
                        
                            16 Brady, The Transformation of a Neighborhood, 23.
                    
                     authorities brought charges against only three assailants; two were
                    acquitted, and the third paid a $25 fine.17 In 1917, the same year that Dan Shay shot and
                    killed Clarence Euell, an 18-year-old black man suffered a fractured skull when a white co-worker struck him
                    over the head with a hammer after he drank from a water cup intended for "whites-only" at the glass
                    factory where he worked.18
                Racial violence was not the only social problem plaguing the Hoosier state in the early twentieth century. A
                    rampant vice industry also signaled brewing social tensions. Prohibition activists expressed a belief that the
                    abolition of the saloon was a progressive measure that would help protect Christian homes--and especially
                    Christian women--from the pernicious influence of alcohol.19 Deploying language that
                    reflected their conviction that prohibition would mark a new era in the moral life of the state and the
                    nation, temperance advocates hailed the prohibition victory as nothing less than the triumph of good over
                    evil. As the Indianapolis Star editorialized: 
                        If the saloon ever had any defense, it has lost it. Deaf to the voices of sorrow, blind to the light
                            that has come into the world, it has written its own doom in the desperation it has roused in its
                            victims. The promise of mercy is to him that showeth mercy, but none can be expected now where none
                            has been shown. They who have sown the wind must reap the whirlwind.20
                    
                City newspapers also emphasized the role that prohibition would play in protecting the state's (white)
                    women, who, presumably, were among the chief victims of the liquor business. The Indiana Daily
                        Times applauded "the good women of 
                        Indiana
                     "who had played "a large part in the great forward movement of the. . .bill."21 More strikingly, the Star declared that "the triumph of
                    prohibition in the 
                        Indiana
                     legislature is a 
                        17 Ibid., 21-23.
                        18
                            Indiana Daily Times, November 14, 1917.
                        19 The 
                                Indiana
                             General Assembly had overwhelmingly passed a prohibition measure in February 1917.
                        20
                            Indianapolis Star, February 3, 1917.
                        21
                            Indiana Daily Times, February 3, 1917. 
                    
                     victory for the church, the school, and the home. It is a victory for
                    sad-eyed women and half-clad children, upon whom has dawned the promise of a brighter day"22
                Absent from the celebration of 
                        Indiana's
                     impending move to dry statehood were the voices of minority communities, particularly Roman
                    Catholics and African Americans. The logic of the temperance fighters suggested that blacks should have been
                    especially pleased by the elimination of the saloon, since such establishments were more common in poor 
                        Indianapolis
                     neighborhoods than elsewhere. There is much evidence to suggest, however, that the African
                    American community in 
                        Indianapolis
                     viewed the measure with a marked degree of ambivalence, and that temperance movement leaders were
                    oblivious to the impact of prohibition on black communities.23
                The new world envisioned by the state's Progressives obscured significant cleavages in the
                    community's racial, social, and religious composition. It was built upon the image of the idealized white
                    woman, whose virtue would guard the state from sin, and whose innocence would, in turn, be protected by the
                    state's new laws. Ultimately, the Progressives' vision left them unprepared for what happened on May
                    3, 1917, when the drunken son of an Irish saloonkeeper walked into the English Hotel cafe accompanied by a
                    white prostitute, a pistol resting in his hip pocket.
                Dan Shay was a product not of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but of 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , located 130 miles due east of the Hoosier capital. 
                        Springfield
                    , like 
                        Indianapolis
                    , became a haven for 
                        Kentucky-born African Americans
                    after the Civil War, and the racial tensions introduced by their arrival became a pronounced feature of 
                        Springfield's
                     daily life during Shay's childhood.
                Born on November 8, 1876, Shay was the fourth child of Daniel and Ellen Shay, Irish immigrants.24 As members of the city's working 
                        22
                            Indiana Daily Times, February 3, 1917. 
                        23 A major concern for African Americans was the loss of jobs that would
                            accompany prohibition and the consequent close of the "saloon businesses." The
                                Freeman, February 10, 1917. 
                        24 At the time of the 1880 census, Daniel Shay Sr. was unemployed, though in the
                            coming years he worked in a variety of jobs. U.S., Tenth Census: 1880: Series T9, Roll 1066, p. 21,
                            http://www.heritagequestonline.com. A review of the 
                                Springfield
                             city directories for the 1880s reveals that Shay, like Clarence Euell's father,
                            worked as a common laborer (1881-1884), a 
                    
                     class, the Shays would have been in direct competition with 
                        Springfield's
                     burgeoning African American population, whose growth had far out-paced that of the white
                    population between 1860 and 1880.25 Such growth, although waning by century's end,
                    prompted sociologist Edwin Smith Todd to note that "the animosity on the part of the whites toward the
                    colored is strong and growing; and on the part of the colored race there is a growing jealousy of rights, real
                    or supposed."26
                One of the most divisive issues in 
                        Springfield
                     during Dan Shay's childhood was the integration of the city's public schools. In two
                    public referenda held in the spring and fall of 1882, local voters had overwhelmingly vetoed an integration
                    proposal, but by 1885, when Shay was 9 years old, a Republican school board voted to allow blacks to attend
                    the schools nearest their homes. To Todd, looking back from the perspective of nearly two decades, the plan
                    was "provocative of trouble. Oftentimes white parents refuse[d] to permit their children to sit by the
                    colored in the school room."27
                No record reveals how Shay or his parents perceived these events, but Todd's study makes clear that the
                    racial climate in 
                        Springfield
                     had worsened by the turn of the century. During the same year Todd's research was published,
                    a white mob lynched a black man accused of killing a white police officer and then torched the city's
                    black neighborhood, destroying many homes and businesses.28 Violence re-erupted in 1906,
                    when reports that black residents had attacked several whites prompted white mobs again to set fire to black
                        neighborhoods.30
                By then, however, Dan Shay had left 
                        Springfield
                    , achieving fame in the world of professional baseball and thus becoming one of the city's
                        
                        foreman for a stone quarry (1885-1886), a saloonkeeper (1887), and, after that failed, again as a
                            common laborer (1888-1890). In another indication of the family's economic struggles, Ellen Shay
                            took up work as a domestic servant in the homes of several members of 
                                Springfield's
                             elite upper class.
                        25 In his 1904 study of 
                                Clark County
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , sociologist Edwin Smith Todd reported that 
                                Springfield's
                             black population had increased by 344.6 percent from 1860-1870 and 92.3 percent from
                            1870-1880, both rates of increase far exceeding the city's white population, which grew by 69.9
                            percent from 1860-1870, and 60.7 percent from 1870-1880. Edwin Smith Todd, A Sociological
                                Study of 
                                    Clark County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                 (
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1904), 46.
                        26 Ibid., 66.
                        27 Ibid.
                        28
                            New York Times, March 9, 1904.
                        29 Ibid., February 28, 1906.
                    
                     most favored sons. Beginning in 1895, he played for minor league teams
                    throughout the Northeast30; in 1901, he briefly reached the major leagues with the
                    Cleveland Blues (later the Indians), before spending the next two seasons with 
                        St. Paul
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    , and 
                        San Francisco
                    . After opening the 1904 season with 
                        Portland
                    , 
                        Oregon
                    , Shay's contract was purchased by the St. Louis Cardinals, who used him as their regular
                    shortstop for most of the season.31
                A flashy fielder and speedy runner, Shay became known as "Scrappy Dan" for his hard-nosed play and
                    aggressive base-running style. He was an inept hitter, however, never batting better than .256 in his major
                    league career. A shattered, eventually amputated, pinky finger further limited his effectiveness, and forced a
                    one-year hiatus.32 He reemerged on the roster of the 1907 New York Giants, batting just
                    .190 in 35 games before drawing his release.
                Shay never again played in the major leagues. He toiled in the minors as a part-time player for two seasons
                    before landing a string of minor league managerial positions from 1909 to 1917. In between two managerial
                    stints with the Kansas City Blues of the American Association (1909-1911 and 1915-1916), Shay suffered
                    personal tragedy when his wife was killed in a car accident in 
                        Salt Lake City
                    . Now the widowed father of a son and a daughter who were sent to live with relatives, Shay took
                    to drinking.33 He returned to managing the Kansas City Blues, but when they finished only
                    fifth in the American Association, Shay left 
                        Kansas City
                     and signed a contract to manage the Milwaukee Brewers.
                Aside from his personal misfortunes, nothing in Dan Shay's professional history could have predicted his
                    violent outburst against Clarence Euell on May 3, 1917. Just three weeks into his tenure with the Brewers,
                    Shay's club was off to an uneven start, having just lost two straight to the Indianapolis Indians. But if
                    Shay was discouraged by his club's lackluster performance, it would have been a familiar kind of
                    frustration: having 
                        
                            30 These teams included Olean, 
                                Rochester
                            , 
                                Albany
                            , and 
                                Cortland
                            , 
                                New York
                            ; and 
                                Brockton
                            , 
                                Connecticut
                            . 
                        
                            31 Information on Shay's minor league experience came from the private
                            newspaper clipping files of the late Tom Shea. Baseball historian Dick Thompson, who manages the
                            files, generously shared the information upon my request. 
                        
                            30
                            Washington Post, August 2, 1905. 
                        
                            30
                            Indiana Daily Times, May 4, 1917. 
                    
                     lived in the game of baseball for twenty years, Shay would have known
                    well the ebbs and flows of the long season. Indeed, he enjoyed an excellent reputation in his profession.
                    True, he did drink and did own and carry a gun, but in these habits he was hardly unique among baseball men.
                    Superstar Ty Cobb was known to sleep with a pistol next to his pillow.
                What made Shay a likely candidate for racial violence was not his exceptionality, but his typicality. The son
                    of poor white Irish immigrants, Shay had come of age in a segregated world: all the baseball leagues he had
                    played in or managed were whites-only. The hotels he slept in, the restaurants in which he dined, were
                    strictly segregated, except for their black waiters and porters, who were expected to provide prompt,
                    efficient, and humble service. As Shay would later explain, "I was not in the habit of serving myself.34
                
                The afternoon contest between the Indians and Brewers at Washington Park on Thursday, May 3, 1917, took just
                    one hour and 48 minutes, as 
                        Indianapolis
                     pitcher Clint Rogge used an array of curveballs and breaking pitches to hold the Brewer bats to
                    just one run in a 3-1 Indians victory.
                After the game, Shay showered and dressed in the clubhouse and headed out for an evening on the town. He went
                    to the saloon of John Heinlein, a friend who had provided Shay with betting tips for horse races over the past
                    two years. While there, Shay consumed a beer and five mixed drinks. Heinlein would later testify that Shay
                    appeared drunk, based on his "flushed look." Louis Baseman, the bartender at the saloon that
                    evening, added in testimony that he saw Shay move a pistol from his overcoat pocket to his hip pocket.35
                
                At approximately 6:30 p.m., Heinlein accompanied Shay to the "manicure parlor" of 36-year-old
                    Gertrude Anderson at 157 North Illinois Street. Anderson would later testify that, for the next two hours, she
                    gave Shay a manicure. Married twice and estranged from her second husband, Anderson had lived in 
                        Colkinsville
                    , 
                        Idaho
                    ; 
                        Kansas City
                    ; 
                        San Francisco
                    ; 
                        Louisville
                    ; and 
                        Denver
                     before settling in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .36
                
                
                    
                        34 Ibid., November 21, 1917. 
                    
                        35
                        Indianapolis Star, November 22, 1917. 
                    
                        36 Despite her peripatetic lifestyle, Anderson insisted that in each stop along her
                        travels she had been with her mother, and listed her various means of employment as milliner, hairdresser,
                    
                
                
                
                     The lobby of the English Hotel, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , c. 1915 Clarence Euell sat here awaiting medical treatment after imploring the hotel
                        cafe manager, "Won't you send me some place to die?" Bass Photo Company Collection, Indiana
                        Historical Society
                
                After his two-hour manicure, Shay accompanied Anderson to the English Hotel, where he was staying, and the
                    couple found a table at the hotel cafe. Waiter Clarence Euell took their order for food and drinks--sirloin
                    steak, potatoes, salad, and, for Shay, four "Bronx cocktails."37
                
                Shay ordered a cup of coffee to round out his meal. As Euell brought the coffee to the table, Shay demanded
                    more sugar, even though there were already two sugar bowls on his table. Shay, Anderson, and several witnesses
                    would offer widely differing accounts of what happened next, but the most consistent and seemingly reliable
                    testimony came from Elizabeth Braskett, the white cashier working at the cafe that night. She remembered that
                    Euell had responded to Shay's request for 
                         manicurist, and vendor of metal polish. Interestingly, at the time of the shooting she lived at 219
                            Indiana Avenue, just a few blocks away from Clarence Euells apartment at 329 Indiana Avenue. Ibid.,
                            November 18, 1917.
                        
                            37 A mixed drink that includes gin, sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, and orange
                            juice.
                    
                     more sugar by saying, "You've got sugar," and then shoving
                    one of the bowls in front of Shay's plate. Euell then took the lid off the bowl, and brought two more
                    sugar bowls over to the table. Shay, offended by Euell's disrespectful manner, muttered
                    "Smarty." He then said something else that Braskett did not hear, but which caused Euell to stop,
                    turn around, and stare back at Shay.
                "I don't like that remark you made to me," Euell said.
                "What do you mean you don't like that remark?" Shay retorted.
                As Euell started to walk away, Shay called him back to the table. When Euell approached, Shay arose from his
                    chair, declared, "I will now show you what I meant by that remark," then pulled out his pistol and
                    fired a single bullet into Euell's abdomen.38
                
                When Shay fired his weapon, Anderson and Braskett both ran from the dining room and into the kitchen, exiting
                    the cafe through a back door. Euell, doubled over in pain from the gunshot wound, managed to grab hold of
                    Shay's wrist before he could fire his pistol again. Euell then wrestled Shay to the ground, pinned his
                    head against the floor with his foot, and began bashing it.
                Hearing the gunshot, the white manager of the cafe, Herbert Miller, ran into the room. When he saw that Euell
                    had Shay pinned to the ground and was beating his head against the floor, Miller commanded, "Don't
                    do that, Clarence." According to Miller, Euell then looked up at his boss and replied, "Why
                    shouldn't I, Mr. Miller? He's shot me and I'm bleeding to death inside."
                Mark Byrd, a black waiter also employed at the cafe, took the gun from Shay and gave it to Miller, who placed
                    it in the manager's safe. After calling the police and an ambulance, Miller told Euell to wait in the
                    kitchen. But the injured Euell soon returned to his boss and implored, "Won't you send me some place
                    to die?" Miller told Euell to sit out in one of the big chairs in the lobby, where the police later found
                        him.39
                
                Meanwhile, several of Shay's players who had been loitering in the lobby, unaware of the dispute until
                    they heard the gunfire, rushed into the cafe, grabbed their manager, and escorted him upstairs to his room. It
                    was there that officers Fletcher and Sheehan found and arrested him. Shay was taken to police headquarters and
                    booked on assault charges. 
                        
                            38
                            Indianapolis News, May 4, 1917. 
                        
                            39
                            Indianapolis Star, November 16, 1917. 
                    
                     The police then intended to bring Shay to City Hospital, so that Euell
                    could positively identify him as the shooter, but on the way to the hospital the authorities received word
                    that Euell a died. With that, the squad car turned around and headed back to the station.40
                
                The city's African American community reacted to word of the shooting with sorrow, anger, and indignation,
                    though much of it would go unrecorded by the two weekly black newspapers--The Freeman and
                    the Colored World--for which 1917 editions still survive in library archives. Because they
                    represented a community constantly endangered by the racial prejudices of the city's white majority, The Freeman and the Colored World had to register their outrage with
                    humility and restraint. Their policy was influenced not only by fear of white violence, but also by business
                    concerns. George L. Knox, the African American publisher of The Freeman, owned a barbershop
                    that catered only to whites. If his paper became too militant, he could face a boycott that would ruin both
                    his shop and his paper.41
                
                
                    The Freeman's May 12, 1917 issue carried a brief notice of Euell's death, noting
                    that at the English Hotel "everyone, both the guests and employees, spoke highly of Euell, saying he had
                    always conducted himself properly and bore a good reputation."42 The Colored World would not even go that far: in its May 12 issue, mention of Euell appeared only in the
                    paper's weekly list of deaths. Other than that he died from a "gun-shot wound of abdomen," no
                    other details were provided.43
                
                In an editorial published the previous week, the Colored World had lambasted African American
                    newspapers that chose to run such "unscrupulous" headlines as "White wife kills colored
                    husband" and "Colored family ordered to leave town because one member struck a white man."
                    Instead, the paper urged the black press to deal out "wholesome advice to the race," and to publish
                    only news that was "fit...for their consumption."44 The clear, though unstated,
                    implication of the editorial was that any news that carried the potential to incite black anger, such as the
                    killing of Clarence Euell, should be avoided.
                
                    
                        40 Ibid., May 4, 1917. 
                    
                        41 Brady, The Transformation of a Neighborhood, 15. 
                    
                        42
                        The Freeman, May 12, 1917. 
                    
                        43
                        Indianapolis Colored World, May 12, 1917. 
                    
                        44 Ibid., May 5, 1917 
                
                
                Nonetheless, much of the city's African American community was incensed by the news of Euell's death.
                    In its May 19 issue, the Colored World reported that a group of black citizens had met at
                    Willis's A.M.E. Chapel "for the purpose of both raising the necessary funds and hiring legal talent
                    to take charge of the prosecution in the Clarence Euell case." That such a meeting was held suggests that
                    black activism was aroused by Euell's death, and that these activists did not trust the prosecutor's
                    office to vigorously pursue the case on its own.45
                
                Meanwhile, the professional baseball fraternity mounted a legal fund to help pay for Shay's defense. On
                    May 7, the Milwaukee Journal reported that Joe Tinker, 
                        Columbus
                     manager and one-time Chicago Cub, had announced the fund. Soon, "players, managers and club
                    owners alike" were making contributions. The day after the shooting, 
                        Milwaukee
                     owner A. F Timme told reporters that he would back his manager "to the limit," but
                    within a week, as the gravity of the charges against Shay became clear, Timme hired another manager.46
                
                Shay used the money from the defense fund to hire the power-house law firm of Ryan, Ruckelshaus, and Ryan to
                    represent him against what were now charges of second-degree murder. Just one day after Euell's death,
                    Shay's defense had become clear: he had shot Euell in self-defense. As the Indianapolis
                        Star reported on May 5, Shay told police detective James E Quigley that Euell had used "vile
                    language" and that when Shay "attempted to call the waiter down for uttering the words in the
                    presence of the woman who was with Shay, the negro came toward him with his fist clenched." Because Euell
                    appeared "greatly angered" and Shay "believed he was about to be injured," Shay pulled out
                    his pistol and fired the fatal shot. This account contradicted the story of clerk Elizabeth Braskett, which
                    had appeared in the newspapers the previous day. Shay's narration would also change during the trial, as
                    he embellished his version of events to make Euell 
                        
                            45
                            The Colored World cautioned the citizens against "elements of people who would
                            and do solicit in the interest of something all the time. But the most dangerous are the professional
                            parasites who come into your meeting seemingly in good faith, give empty pledges and go out and
                            'clean up.' This is by playing on credulity [sic] of some people who believe in fair play
                            and seem to think that every member, especially of our race, is alright." The clear, but
                            unstated, agenda of the paper was to discourage any activity that could further poison the city's
                            already polluted racial waters. Ibid., May 19, 1917. 
                        
                            46
                            Milwaukee Journal, May 7, 1917. 
                    
                     appear even more threatening, and thus his self-defense plea more
                        credible.47
                
                The Star also reported that Shay had told Mike Kelley, the manager of the 
                        St. Paul
                     team who had come to visit him in the county jail, that "the woman" (Gertrude Anderson)
                    would confirm his account of the shooting. Yet Anderson, who had slipped out the back door of the cafe after
                    the shooting, seeed to have vanished. For two days, 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers carried headlines about the disappearance of the "mysterious woman" who
                    allegedly held the key that could unlock the mystery of Clarence Euell's death.48
                
                When she reappeared on May 6, Anderson gave two conflicting accounts of the shooting. To Claude M. Worley,
                    special investigator for the criminal court, she provided a version of events that largely corroborated
                    Shay's tale. The Indianapolis News reported that Anderson had told Worley that Euell
                    was "rude and gruff from the beginning .... He slighted us in every way. We were forced to ask for
                    napkins. He seemed not to want to wait on our table. He stood about in a defiant manner and watched us. Mr.
                    Shay had said nothing to him which could have provoked him, except to ask for the napkins." When Shay
                    asked for more sugar for his coffee, Anderson now claimed that "the negro was slow to respond and
                        surly.49
                
                "Finally," Anderson told Worley, "the waiter came close to Shay and cursed him. 'You want
                    to be careful around here, I am a smart fellow,' the waiter said." According to Anderson, Shay
                    responded innocently, "I have said nothing to you." Anderson told Worley that she then became
                    frightened and fled the table, but as she did so "I saw the negro double up his fist and start to strike
                    at Shay, who was sitting down." She heard the fatal shot while running to the kitchen, she explained.50
                
                The same afternoon that she told this story to Worley, Anderson appeared under oath before the grand jury.
                    Described by the news as a "reluctant witness," Anderson made no mention in her grand jury account
                    of Euell having said anything threatening to Shay, nor did she mention having seen the waiter clench his fist
                    prior to the shot. 
                        
                            47
                            Indianapolis Star, May 5, 1917.
                        
                            48 Ibid. 
                        
                            49
                            Indianapolis News, May 5, 1917.
                        
                            50 Ibid.
                    
                     According to the News article, Anderson testified that "she did not
                    see Euell strike Shay, and did not hear Euell threaten to strike Shay." The testy exchange between Euell
                    and Shay was also missing from her testimony. "I did not hear Shay make any remark to Euell before he
                    shot him, and Shay was still sitting at the table when I left," Anderson told the grand jury. Comparing
                    her statement to Worley with her sworn testimony before the grand jury, the News concluded
                    that there was a "wide variance" between her two accounts and added that her versions were
                    "apparently not consistent."51
                
                The News was willing to point out the obvious inconsistencies in Anderson's tales, but another of the
                    city's papers, the Indiana Daily Times, purposefully elided them. The Times's headline declared "Woman Tells Grand Jurors of Shooting," while two subheads
                    read, "Declares Colored Waiter Insolent" and "Statement Made to Claude Worley Strong Defense
                    for Ball Manager." The article, which ran several columns, repeated Anderson's statement to Worley
                    virtually word-for-word--as if it were an established fact, rather than a subjective eyewitness account--but
                    made no mention of what she had said under oath before the grand jury. Only the last two paragraphs of the
                    story mentioned the testimony of other witnesses, including Braskett's incriminating account. The grand
                    jury testimony of three African American waiters, Eugene James, Mark Byrd, and George Scott, who had also been
                    working with Euell that night, was not reprinted at all. The paper merely noted that they "also
                        testified."52 The Times account set the tone for the newspaper
                    coverage to come. The testimony of white witnesses would be prominently featured by the city's three
                    dailies, while the voices of black witnesses would go almost completely ignored.
                Though the Times characterized Anderson's statement to Worley as a "strong defense
                    for Shay," the grand jury nonetheless indicted him on second-degree murder charges on May 11. Denied the
                    opportunity to post bail, Shay would spend the next six months in the county jail, awaiting trial. The lengthy
                    interlude undoubtedly afforded Shay and his attorneys the opportunity to review their prospects for the coming
                    trial. At first glance, the outlook for Shay appeared grim. It would be difficult to convince a jury that the
                    shooting of an unarmed man had been an act 
                        
                            51 Ibid., May 7, 1917. 
                        
                            52
                            Indiana Daily Times, May 5, 1917. 
                    
                     of self-defense, and Shay's initial story that Euell had called him
                    a name and then approached him in a threatening manner was unlikely to meet the legal threshold for
                    establishing self-defense as a justifiable motive for the killing. The testimony of Braskett painted Shay as
                    the aggressor in the affair, and the other "star witness" in the case, Anderson, while defending
                    Shay's conduct toward Euell, had also managed to contradict her own story within the span of a few hours.
                    If convicted, Shay would face a prison term ranging anywhere from 20 years to life.
                Undoubtedly, at some point between the May indictment and the start of the trial in November, the defense
                    realized that to attain an acquittal they would have to embellish and exaggerate Euell's conduct toward
                    Shay. Furthermore, they would have to plant in the minds of the jurors the idea that Euell was a frightening
                    man--physically strong, irrational, contemptuous of white privilege, and disrespectful toward white womanhood.
                    They would have to insinuate that Euell posed a dangerous threat not only to Dan Shay, but to all the whites
                    of Indianapolis, and that the killing of Euell represented not just an act of self-defense, but one of
                    race-defense.
                This image of the black man as savage beast coexisted with his caricature as Sambo--an innocent, docile,
                    respectful, and emasculated creature who was extolled for his "childlike simplicity of affection, and
                    facility of forgiveness."53 Novelist Thomas Dixon, whose 1905 novel The
                        Clansman would form the basis of D. W. Griffith's film The Birth of a Nation,
                    gave form to the more alarmist image of the black male as "half-child, half-animal, the sport of impulse,
                    whim, and conceit ...a being who, left to his will, roams at night and sleeps in the day, whose speech knows
                    no word of love, whose passions, once aroused, are as the fury of the tiger."54
                
                It was representations such as Dixon's that would serve as the foundation for the defense's case.
                    Clarence Euell was no happy-go-lucky Sambo, Shay's attorneys would insist, but rather a ferocious,
                    irrational creature whose anger had been inexplicably unleashed against the innocent and unsuspecting Shay,
                    and whose lustful passions posed a threat to Anderson, and by extension, all the white women of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That Anderson was actually a prostitute who had lived in the city for only a 
                        
                            53 George M. Frederickson, The Black Image in the White Mind: The
                                Debate on Afro-American Character and Destiny, 1817-1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 111. 
                        
                            54 Ibid., 280-81. See also Thomas Dixon, The Leopard's
                                Spots (
                                New York
                            , 1902) and The Clansman (
                                New York
                            , 1905). 
                    
                     short while did not matter. During the trial, the defense would carefully
                    project Anderson's "innocent" sexuality onto the menacing figure of Euell, whose very body
                    would serve as a symbol for all the racial and sexual perils that threatened the community's moral
                        order.55
                
                Simultaneously the prosecution busied itself concocting a trial strategy to exploit white Protestant fears of
                    saloons, booze, and loose women. Just as Euell's aggressive masculinity posed a threat to 
                        Indiana's
                     social order, Shay's alcoholic rampage through the city and his familiarity with its vice
                    industry symbolized the menace that was tearing at the social fabric of the community. The passage of the
                    prohibition bill earlier in the year made the argument a timely one. It also drew on the first editorials
                    about the shooting to appear in white newspapers. The Indiana Daily Times, which would
                    support Shay's position by the time of the trial, had initially been quick to condemn the ball manager:
                    "Danny Shay is not likely to obtain much sympathy in his present serious plight. . .He played the part of
                    a lawbreaker in the first place when he went armed among peace-loving folk, and he acted the role of the sulky
                    and brutal bully when he displayed an arrogant and intolerant temper toward a waiter who happened to be
                        colored."56 Condemning Shay's "pistol-toting," the Indianapolis News displayed the same progressive temperament that had informed its support for
                    prohibition (although at this stage the paper offered no comment on Shay's drinking). "We have
                    advanced in civilization beyond the pistol-toting age," the News declared, "and
                    those who have not moved up with us must take the consequences of lagging behind."57
                
                
                    
                        55 In making this argument, the defense would be planting seeds in ground already
                        fertilized by American popular culture throughout the first two decades of the twentieth century. The
                        reigning world heavyweight champion for seven consecutive years, Jack Johnson consciously exploited the
                        myths, fantasies, and fears about black male virility. His use of clothing to accentuate his physique and
                        his womanizing were seen as threats to white feminine virtue. When Johnson claimed the heavyweight
                        championship of the world in 1908, a call quickly went out for a "great white hope" who could
                        defeat him and prove the superiority of the white race in the ring. The former heavyweight champion Jim
                        Jeffries, professing his deep hatred for blacks, agreed to come out of retirement to fight Johnson. The
                        fight, held in Reno on July 4, 1910, ended when Johnson knocked Jeffries halfway out of the ring.
                        Johnson's victory added to the fear of black masculinity and its threat to racial hierarchy. It was
                        this perceived threat that the Shay defense would exploit to set their client free. 
                    
                        56
                        Indiana Daily Times, May 5, 1917. 
                    
                        57
                        Indianapolis News, May 4, 1917. That the prosecution chose to emphasize Shay's
                        insobriety not only reflected the contemporary concerns of average citizens, it also anticipated the
                        appeal 
                
                
                From November 14, when both sides made their opening arguments, through the jury's verdict eight days
                    later, the courtroom of 
                        Marion County
                     Criminal Court Justice James A. Collins was packed, and the halls outside the room were filled
                    with spectators, both black and white, interested in the proceedings. Until Shay's only son, Dan Jr.,
                    arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the last days of the trial, no member of Shay's family was present for the proceedings.
                    Although the victim's aged parents, James and Jenny Euell, sat behind the prosecution throughout the
                    trial, no reporter bothered to talk to them or to elicit their opinion on the case.
                The opening statements of both the prosecution and defense anticipated the arguments that would dominate the
                    trial. In his opening remarks, the lead counsel for the prosecution, Alvah J. Rucker, outlined the case
                    against Shay. Through the testimony of Braskett, as well as several corroborating witnesses (including the
                    three black waiters) "the state will show the attack was vicious and unprovoked and that Euell was
                        unarmed."58 The same evidence that had emerged in the newspapers in the hours
                    after the killing would comprise the prosecution's chief material argument against Shay. This argument
                    would be framed, however, by details of Shay's drinking prior to the shooting. Rucker noted that Shay had
                    consumed "several drinks, including Bronx cocktails, and that [he] drank his own and those of [Gertrude
                    Anderson]," and that the drinks had caused him to be "rough and disorderly in the cafe."59
                
                Michael Ryan, lead counsel for the defense, began his opening statement with the promise that "no attempt
                    will be made on behalf of the prisoner to drag into the case race, color, or politics." Ryan then
                    immediately proceeded to bring race into the trial. As the Indianapolis Star reported, Ryan
                    "stated the defense will offer testimony to show that Shay's companion, Mrs. Anderson, preceded him
                    into the cafe by several minutes, and that while at table alone Euell 'smiled at her and practiced arts
                    of coquetry.'" Furthermore, the Star reported, "Mr. Ryan recited that 
                         of the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920s, when more than 40,000 white men would join the hooded order in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , more than one-quarter of the city's eligible population. As Leonard Moore
                            demonstrates, 
                                Indiana's
                             Klan during the 1920s was primarily a populist movement focused on defending
                            "traditional" values and upholding prohibition. Leonard J. Moore, Citizen
                                Klansman: The Ku Klux Klan in 
                                    Indiana
                                , 1921-1928 ( 
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1991), 11. 
                        
                            58
                            Indianapolis Star, November 15, 1917. 
                        
                            59 Ibid. 
                    
                    
                    
                        Daniel Shay, c. 1917 The prosecution portrayed Shay as a "dissolute, red-faced,
                            drunken Irishman whose very breath communicated the poison that threatened the community."
                            Courtesy National Baseball Hall of Fame
                     Euell was a giant in strength that was employed because his ferocious strength and ability to fight
                    allowed him to quell disturbances between other colored employees of the cafe. The attorney asserted that the
                    defense will prove that Euell was insolent in his service to the prisoner and his dinner guest" and that
                    he treated the couple with "disrespect in his manner." Ryan concluded that on the day of the
                    shooting, Euell had been involved in other quarrels, and that at the time of the shooting, Euell had attacked
                    and threatened to kill Shay.60
                
                The prosecution took two days to present its case. Braskett again testified to what she had seen transpire
                    prior to the shooting. Her testimony remained substantially the same as the version first reported in the
                    papers six months before: that Shay had shot Euell after the latter had objected to Shay's abusive
                    language. Waiters James Johnson and Mark 
                        
                            60 Ibid.
                    
                     Byrd corroborated Braskett's testimony, saying that they did not see
                    Euell strike Shay prior to the shot being fired. On cross-examination, Byrd admitted that he had contributed
                    to the legal fund established for Euell following his death. Other than this admission, the defense failed to
                    crack the testimony of the eyewitnesses to the shooting.61
                
                The prosecution's decision to call on cafe manager Herbert Miller provided the defense with its first
                    opportunity to gain the offensive. In his cross-examination of Miller, defense attorney Ryan asked a series of
                    questions about the dead waiter's reputation for "quarrelsomeness."
                "Had you been told by Policeman Leroy Clements that Clarence Euell was a dangerous man and should not be
                    kept at your place?"
                "Did you see Euell pick up a water carafe and threaten to strike a guest, and was that guest subsequently
                    ordered to leave the cafe?"
                "Did Floyd Reidenbach, a policeman, tell you 'This is a bad nigger' and did you tell him,
                    'I keep him here to handle bad niggers?'"
                The prosecution's objections to each question were sustained. But the jurors heard the questions and were
                    free to draw their own conclusions.
                Other than this prejudicial behavior, the defense never submitted any evidence supporting its allegations, and
                    the newspapers covering the trial did not carry any items that supported the charges. But their point was not
                    lost on the jury: the insinuation was that Euell was a dangerous threat.
                Looking to recover from the Miller debacle, the prosecution countered by bringing saloon owner John Heinlein to
                    the stand. The prosecution hoped to use his testimony to establish Shay's insobriety on the evening of
                    May 3, while playing to community fears of saloons and liquor. Heinlein, however, proved a reluctant witness,
                    insisting that he did not recall if Shay appeared drunk on the night of the shooting. Heinlein's
                    testimony at trial contradicted his grand jury testimony, which was read into the record:
                "Did [Shay] have the appearance when he went with you to Mrs. Anderson's that he may have been
                    drinking?"
                "Yes, he looked like that," Heinlein had answered.
                "From what in his appearance did you determine he looked like a man who had been drinking?"
                "His face was flushed."
                
                    
                        61 Ibid., November 16, 1917. 
                
                
                Heinlein's earlier statement to the grand jury was echoed by the trial testimony of another witness for
                    the prosecution, Walter Benjamin, who told the court that on the evening of the shooting Shay's
                    "face was flushed and he appeared tired."62 Through this peculiar discourse,
                    with its emphasis on the color of Shay's face, the details of his expressions, the prosecution was not
                    providing any additional evidence of Shay's culpability for Euell's death. Those details had already
                    been provided by Braskett and the other eyewitnesses to the shooting. Rather, the prosecution's emphasis
                    on Shay's drinking only makes sense within the context of a larger discourse, prominent in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that year, over the pernicious influence of alcohol on the community's traditional values.
                    Implicit in the image of Shay's reddening face was the lingering fear that such ugly transformations
                    could harm not only Shay and Euell, but also the innocent women and children who lived in a city capable of
                    sheltering such morally suspect individuals as Heinlein an Anderson.
                After the prosecution rested its case, the defense quickly went to work countering this argument with a complex
                    of contrasting physical images that placed the blame for the shooting on Euell himself. Anderson played a
                    critical role as the mediator for this argument, but now her innocence, rather than her promiscuity, would
                    help the jury identify the real threat to traditional values exposed by the shooting. Anderson's
                    testimony, demeanor, and wardrobe all signified her newfound role in Shay's defense. As the Indianapolis Star described her appearance in court, "Mrs. Anderson was dressed modestly in
                    black, the somberness of the costume being relieved by touches of white at the collar and sleeve edges. She
                    spoke with a slight lisp and had to be instructed by the court to speak sufficiently loud for the jury to hear
                    on several occasions. There was no trace of embarrassment in her manner in either the direct or
                        cross-examination."63
                
                To accompany her modest dress, Anderson brought a new version of the shooting to her testimony, embellishing
                    her earlier versions with details about Euell's behavior towards her prior to the shooting. She told the
                    jury that after Euell had seated her at a table, "He walked away some distance, stood looking at me and
                    smiled. I turned my head." During their dinner, Anderson said Euell "stood a short distance away,
                    with his 
                        
                            62 Ibid., November 17, 1917. 
                        
                            63 Ibid., November 18, 1917. 
                    
                     arms folded, shoulders back, nose back, sneering and looking at Mr.
                    Shay." While claiming that Shay's manner toward Euell was "gentle" when he asked for more
                    sugar for his coffee, she said that Euell was "angry" when he brought more sugar over to the table.
                    Anderson then testified that Euell called Shay an unprintable name, and added "I'm a smart fellow.
                    You want to be careful." According to Anderson, Shay responded to this insult politely, saying "I
                    don't understand. What do you mean? I've said nothing to you." It was at this point, Anderson
                    claimed, that Euell had clenched his fist and approached the table. "I saw his fist going past his body
                    and I ran. When I was about a third of the way to the kitchen entrance I heard the shot."64
                
                On cross-examination, prosecuting attorney Eph Inman attempted to highlight the inconsistencies between
                    Anderson's trial testimony and her grand jury statements, but was stopped by defense objections. Inman
                    then returned to the issue of the color in Shay's face prior to the shooting, in a dialogue that
                    simultaneously insinuated the impropriety of Anderson's relationship with the ball manager. "How far
                    apart did you sit when Shay's hands were being manicured?" Inman asked. Anderson replied,
                    "About thirty-six inches from my chest to his."
                "Did you smell liquor on his breath?"
                "No sir."
                "Was his face red?"
                "Pink."
                "Did Shay pay you?"
                "Yes."
                "How much?"
                "The charge was 50 cents. He gave me a dollar and told me to keep it all."
                "A sort of tip," observed Inman.
                "The first I ever got at that location," retorted Anderson.65
                
                Under Inman's cross-examination, Anderson also admitted having visited Shay several times in jail,
                    insisting that she had gone to "distribute religious literature."66 At the
                    conclusion of her testimony, the Indiana Daily Times declared that Anderson had
                    "successfully withstood the 
                        
                            64 Ibid.
                        
                            65 Ibid.
                        
                            66 Ibid., November 20, 1917.
                    
                     cross-examination of the prosecution."67 Indeed,
                    through her conservative dress and quiet demeanor, Anderson deflected the prosecution's insinuations
                    about her virtue, demonstrating the vulnerability of the state's emphasis on Shay's intoxication.
                    Temperance was a powerful argument so long as it could be connected to broader social concerns of moral decay
                    and licentiousness. When Inman failed to aggressively interrogate Anderson about her relationship with Shay,
                    the logic of the prosecution's case foundered against the unimpeachable image of white female
                    submissiveness and virtue.
                Next, Dan Shay took the stand in his own defense. In his version of the event, which differed substantially
                    from the one he had given the police the day after the shooting, Shay explained that he had shot Euell after
                    the waiter struck him in the face with a sugar bowl. According to Shay, following the dispute over the sugar,
                    Euell exclaimed, "I'll kill you, you ___ ____ _____" Shay testified that when he spoke these
                    words, Euell's attitude was "decidedly angry, vicious, and ferocious." After Euell smacked Shay
                    across the face with one of the sugar bowls, he pulled out his pistol and shot the waiter.68
                
                The prosecution brought Braskett back to the stand to testify that the sugar bowls on the table were not
                    disarranged after the shooting.69 But during his cross-examination of Shay, defense
                    attorney Inman focused not on the inconsistencies between Shay's statement to the police on the night of
                    the shooting and his testimony at trial, but rather on the manager's drinking. Shay admitted drinking a
                    gin fizz in Heinlein's saloon on the morning of May 3, and a glass of beer at Heinlein's
                    establishment in the afternoon. According to the Indianapolis Star, Shay "admitted
                    having drunk three of the four Bronx cocktails served at his table during the dinner in the cafe, but denied
                    he was intoxicated." According to the Star, "Shay gave his testimony quietly,
                    seemingly with perfect assurance, and was in nowise disturbed by the severity of the
                        cross-examination."70
                
                The prosecution's emphasis on Shay's drinking--which seems bizarre given the vulnerability of the
                    defense's many contradictory 
                        
                            67
                            Indiana Daily Times, November 22, 1917. 
                        
                            68 Ibid., November 20, 1917. 
                        
                            69
                            Indianapolis Star, November 22, 1917. 
                        
                            70 Ibid., November 21, 1917. 
                    
                     explanations of the killing--makes sense once understood in the context
                    of the trial. The case was not about whether Shay acted in self-defense, but whether the killing could be
                    justified for extralegal reasons, as an act of racial defense against an oversexed black bully whose passions
                    threatened community values and white womanhood. The prosecution's best hope for defeating this argument
                    was to demonstrate that Shay himself had already transgressed those moral boundaries through his drinking and
                    the nature of his relationship with Anderson. In the end, neither the defense nor the prosecution rested its
                    case on the merits of the law.
                By legal standards, the most important witness at the trial should have been Braskett, the cashier who had
                    witnessed the entire confrontation between Shay and Euell and whose account of the event never changed.
                    Instead, the trial hinged on the performance of a different woman, Anderson, who defense lawyers hoped would
                    come to seem a symbol of the unique threat that Euell posed, the menace that justified his death. Though
                    Anderson's suspect background and her status as an outsider within the community provided the prosecution
                    with an opening to emphasize the threat Shay's behavior posed to community values, her status as a white
                    woman ultimately trumped all other factors, making the case a question of race rather than booze, of fears of
                    miscegenation rather than concerns over prohibition.71
                
                In his closing statement, assistant prosecutor Claris Adams lambasted the defense for their tactics. "Here
                    comes the defense and seeks to color the facts with the prejudice the man who was shot was colored,"
                        
                        
                            71 Among others, Glenda Elizabeth Gilmore has explored the ways in which ideas
                            about white female virtue were employed in "white supremacy" campaigns in the South in order
                            to accentuate the threat that black masculinity posed to the racial order. As Gilmore writes,
                            "When white men created and exaggerated the danger of black rapists, they underscored white
                            women's dependency on white men, a tactic that put both black men and white women in their
                            places. White men invoked danger and restriction just when white women sought pleasure and freedom.
                            Thus, as the white supremacy campaign reasserted the New White Man's power over black men,
                            domination of white women became a byproduct." Glenda Elizabeth Gilmore, Gender and
                                Jim Crow: Women and the Politics of White Supremacy in 
                                    North Carolina
                                , 1896-1920 (
                                Chapell Hill
                            , 
                                N.C.
                            , 1996), 96. Likewise, Grace Elizabeth Hale has shown how images of white female virtue
                            could override class divisions and social policy in the broader project of creating
                            "whiteness" and defining and enforcing "blackness," particularly through the
                            spectacle of lynching. See, for example, Hale's description of the lynching of Sam Hose, the
                            logic of which rested on the elevation of a "good and common farm wife" into a "woman
                            of 'refined parentage.'" Grace Elizabeth Hale, Making Whiteness: The
                                Culture of Segregation in the South, 1890-1940  (
                                New York
                            , 1998), 209-215. 375. 
                    
                     Adams declared. "And now, mark you, what I am about to say and mark
                    how I say it. I scarcely know how to couch what I hope to say [Attorney for the defense] Michael Ryan violated
                    every precept of law that defines the duty of an attorney for the defense in a case like this. The defense
                    sought to introduce into this case the lust of conquest of white women on the part of the dead man. Ah, they
                    seek to prejudice you in that respect." It was a stinging oratory, a call for the jury to look beyond the
                    prejudicial rhetoric of race. One last time, Adams repeated the prosecution's main argument "Murders
                    are nearly always the result of drunken brawls," Adams insisted. "It is the combination of a gun and
                    a drink that results in death to some innocent person."72
                
                The defense, confident of victory, focused its closing statement on the prosecution's strongest card with
                    the jury, Shay's drinking on the night of the shooting. Rather than challenge the relevance of the
                    prosecution's emphasis on Shays alcohol consumption and the minute particulars of his facial expressions,
                    defense attorney John Holtzmann confirmed their validity by arguing that the state had simply failed to
                    demonstrate that Shay was drunk. "[The prosecution] said they would prove Mr. Shay was drunk on the night
                    of the shooting. They have fallen down," declared Holtzmann. "They did seek to prove it by putting
                    John Heinlein, poor, besotted John Heinlein, on the stand.... I wouldn't convict a sheep-killing dog upon
                    the testimony of such a man as John Heinlein."73
                
                The jury began its deliberations at 11 p.m. on November 21. By 9:00 the next morning, they had reached a
                    verdict. At the announcement, the Indiana Daily Times reported, "there was a loud
                    clapping of hands" in the courtroom, a display quickly silenced by the pounding of Judge Collins's
                    gavel. Now a free man, Shay shook the hand of every member of the jury. "His eyes shone with
                    happiness," the Times reported, "and yet at times he brushed away the mist from
                    his vision."74 While Shay's friends celebrated the outcome, the Times noted, "the negroes seated in the room ... showed no desire to participate in the
                        demonstration.75
                
                
                    
                        72
                        Indiana Daily Times, November 21, 1917. 
                    
                        73 Ibid. 
                    
                        74 Ibid., November 22, 1917. 
                    
                        75 Ibid. 
                
                
                Shay's acquittal came as no surprise to most observers of the trial. The Times, which
                    had been pulling for Shay throughout the trial, reported on the eve of the verdict that "Danny Shay is
                    not worried over the future. ... The tension of his testimony on the witness stand is over. Now he endures
                    only the indictment of the prosecuting attorney."76
                    The Freeman, which had hoped for a different outcome, admitted "there was the thing of
                    facts and the evidence, making a very hard row for the prosecution to hoe. The witnesses are the thing in law,
                    meaning sometimes the miscarriage of justice .... Clarence Euell had no witnesses that were strengthful.
                    Without being discourteous to those who were supposed to be on his side it may be said he had none."
                    While declaring the trial "a farce," The Freeman added, "We do not wish to
                    have it appear that our race is without hope in our courts. Nor do we wish it to appear that our white people
                    are wholly free from prejudice when such is not the case. We do wish it to appear that everything considered
                    the Negroes' relation to the courts in 
                        Indiana
                     is nearly ideal."77
                
                Perhaps because it was not in the same compromised position as The Freeman, the Indianapolis News delivered a more stinging indictment of the Shay verdict. "It seems that the
                    waiter 'smiled' and even 'leered' at the woman with Shay, that he was inattentive,
                    etc.," the paper editorialized. "The penalty for these affronts is not death. Yet the verdict
                    warrants the killing."78
                
                As the News sensed, the Shay verdict demonstrated the limits of the progressive spirit that
                    had informed Indiana's enactment of prohibition and excited the imaginations of reformers
                    around the state. Tested by the righteous fervency of temperance, with its denunciations of saloons and
                    liquor, its insistence on protecting the sacred Christian home, the peculiar logic of the color line had
                    proven intractable. The Shay trial exposed the contradictions within and between these ideologies precisely
                    because both relied on the protection of white womanhood in order to retain their saliency, and during the
                    trial both prosecution and defense sought to paint the portrait of Gertrude Anderson that best conveyed the
                    truth upon which these belief systems operated. The jury's verdict, and 
                        Indiana's
                     subsequent history of racial 
                        
                            76
                            Indiana Daily Times, November 21, 1917. 
                        
                            77
                            The Freeman, December 1, 1917. 
                        
                            78
                            Indianapolis News, November 23, 1917. 
                    
                     turmoil, indicated which ideology remained paramount. The Progressive
                    movement would fade in the coming years, and 
                        Indiana
                     would repeal its prohibition statutes in 1933, but the state would remain, for many of its
                    inhabitants, the "white man's country" envisioned by the territory's founders.
                While the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     licked its wounds, Dan Shay attended his own. Following his acquittal, Shay indicated that he was
                    pondering "several" managerial offers, but in fact he never managed a baseball team again, though he
                    would find occasional work as a scout. With no family to call his own (his children remained with relatives),
                    Shay migrated to 
                        Kansas City
                    , where he found work as a clerk in city hall and continued to struggle with alcoholism. Set free
                    by a jury of his peers but still imprisoned by the torments of his past, Dan Shay ended his life with a
                    gunshot to the head on December 1, 1927, in 
                        Kansas City's
                     Majestic Hotel. He left no suicide note. 79
                
                
                    
                        79 Springfield News-Sun, December 2, 1927.
                
            
            
            
                 Senator from 
                        Oklahoma
                     : The Legislative Career of Hoosier Elmer Thomas 
                Carolyn G. Hanneman
                Although he might not rank with Daniel Webster or Henry Clay, 
                        United States
                     Senator John William Elmer Thomas was a leading national politician in his time. A native of 
                        Indiana
                    , Thomas achieved his prominence early in the twentieth century, when he represented the state of 
                        Oklahoma
                     first as a two-term, Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives and later as a
                    four-term member of the Senate. His knack for formulating legislative solutions to the problems confronting
                    Native Americans, farmers, veterans, and wage earners contributed to the duration of his success in
                    politics.
                To understand Elmer Thomas's significance, it is important to consider his political legacy, not only to
                    his adopted state but also to the nation. Thomas arrived in 
                        Oklahoma
                     on November 16, 1900--seven years to the day before the Sooner State was admitted to the union.
                    Opening a legal practice in 
                        Lawton
                    --one of the sites for the great land lottery opening the Indian land of southwestern 
                        Oklahoma
                     in 1901--Thomas carried on a lucrative business in notarizing homesteaders' 
                         Carolyn G. Hanneman is an archivist at the Carl Albert Congressional Researchand Studies Center at
                            the University of Oklahoma. She oversees the processing of collections, handles reference requests,
                            supervises student employees, and creates special exhibits. 
                    
                     documents. He served as a leading figure in the development of 
                        Lawton
                     and of nearby 
                        Medicine Park
                    , where he later resided.
                After 
                        Oklahoma
                     achieved statehood in 1907, Thomas was elected to its legislature as a senator, and was involved
                    in setting up state government and planning the construction of the capitol. As chairman of the Senate
                    committee on appropriations, he oversaw the funding of numerous projects around the new state. Never one to
                    back away from a challenge, Thomas opposed bond issues to finance a state highway system, instead opting for a
                    "pay as you go" arrangement to match federal monies. He also secured a state fish hatchery for 
                        Medicine Park
                    .
                In 1920, Thomas sought election as the Sixth District Representative to the U.S House of Representatives.
                    Defeated in that campaign, he won the seat in 1922 and was re-elected in 1924. In 1926, Thomas won election to
                    the first of his four terms in the Senate. During his time in the Senate, he chaired both the agriculture and
                    Indian affairs committees, eventually rising to the level of third-ranking member of the senior legislative
                    body.
                As the representative of a predominantly rural state, Thomas emphasized agricultural issues. During the drought
                    of the 1930s, he obtained funds for the creation of irrigation projects for western 
                        Oklahoma
                    . In addition, he worked with the 
                        Oklahoma
                     delegation to push for statewide flood control projects. Thomas also worked to secure favorable
                    legislation for Native Americans--an important constituency in the state. Although his memoir does not reflect
                    his significant contributions to Indian policy, Thomas co-authored the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of 1936,
                    which brought the New Deal to 
                        Oklahoma
                     Indians. As a member of the House, Thomas had also secured for members of the Kiowa, Comanche,
                    and Apache tribes the title to oil royalties in the bed of the Red
                        River.
                With the onset of the Great Depression, Thomas became an out-spoken proponent of inflation. As a young man, he
                    had supported William Jennings Bryan and his free silver policies. Now Thomas argued that cheapening the
                    dollar would cause prices to rise and, in turn, bring more money to farmers and wage earners. In 1933, Thomas
                    successfully added an amendment to the farm bill which allowed Franklin D. Roosevelt to adjust the money
                    supply.
                Thomas also championed the causes of veterans and wage earners. When the Bonus Army of World War I veterans
                    descended on 
                        Washington,
                        D.C. in 1932, he met with representatives of the group on  the Senate steps to discuss their frustrations and their desire for funding
                    adjusted service certificates. Thomas recognized that he had no chance of securing the relief that the former
                    soldiers desired, but he used the opportunity to state his reasons for supporting the measure. During his
                    first term as a senator, Thomas also worked on behalf of independent oil producers to secure a tariff on
                    imported oil. Although he knew he fought a losing battle against the Republican leadership, he successfully
                    filibustered the measure in the last hours before that session adjourned to force the issue to the next
                    session. While he held the Senate floor, he used a worn, greasy pair of overalls to emphasize dramatically the
                    plight of the western oil workers. Indeed, Thomas's congressional papers contain thousands of pieces of
                    mail reflecting his efforts to ease the problems of his constituents.
                With the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, Thomas led a House and Senate group on an inspection tour of
                    military establishments throughout the U.S. and its territories. The 60-day, 30,000-mile trip convinced the
                    legislators that the U.S. was
                    ill-prepared for war. As chair of the military subcommittee of the appropriations committee, Thomas asserted
                    that he would be liberal in funding preparedness programs. Thomas convinced the committee to release the funds
                    needed to allow the War Department to make its own contracts and commitments, without requiring the department
                    to file an approved budget estimate for each item.
                One of the greatest challenges of Thomas's career involved the secrecy concerning development of the
                    atomic bomb. As one of only a handful of legislators with knowledge of the Manhattan Project, Thomas was able
                    to convince his Senate colleagues to fund the project without alerting them to the true nature of the
                    appropriation. Thinking perhaps of this among other efforts, Thomas would later reflect that he found it much
                    easier to pass large, complex legislation than small, simple bills.
                Thomas's career on the military appropriations subcommittee continued after the war. As the head of a
                    fact-finding committee investigating the use of Marshall Plan funds, Thomas met with heads of state throughout
                    Europe. In a perceptive appraisal of post-war Europe, the senator remarked that some countries were devastated
                    while others, namely 
                        Sweden
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                    , had actually profited from the war.
                In 1950, seeking a fifth term in the Senate, Thomas was defeated in the Democratic primary by A. S.
                    "Mike" Monroney, a congressman from 
                        Oklahoma's
                     Fifth District. Although the senator had relied on his 
                    
                         Elmer Thomas, n.d. In retirement, Thomas looked back on his Hoosier boyhood from
                            the perspective of four terms in the 
                                U.S.
                             Senate. Courtesy 
                                Indiana
                             Historical Society
                     seniority as a key issue in the campaign, it was obvious that 
                        Oklahoma
                     had moved away from its rural beginnings. Monroney offered a fresh, young face while, to many
                    voters (especially among the state's growing urban population), Thomas was an old man whose time had
                    passed. Following his defeat, Thomas remained in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , and practiced law. In the late 1950s, he returned to 
                        Lawton
                    , where he resided until his death on September 19, 1965.
                After his retirement from public life, Thomas penned a memoir of his boyhood and his political career. For
                    years, the memoir was effectively hidden in the senator's congressional papers, which came to be part of
                    the Elmer Thomas Collection housed at the Carl Albert  Congressional
                    Research and Studies Center at the University of Oklahoma. Known only to a few scholars, the memoir
                    occasionally received a mention in a scholarly article or book. In 2005, historian Richard Lowitt and
                    archivist Carolyn G. Hanneman reviewed the memoir and decided that it merited publication. After obtaining a
                    publisher, they extensively edited the piece, omitting the early pages concerning Thomas's boyhood and coming
                    of age in 
                        Indiana
                    . The Universtity of Oklahoma Press published Forty Years a Legislator in 2007.
                    What follows are the unpublished pages detailing Thomas's early life in 
                        Indiana
                    .
            
            
            
                 "Forty Years a Legislator" Memoir of a Hoosier Boyhood 
                ELMER THOMAS
                The title of this book is "FORTY YEARS A LEGISLATOR."
                The author served thirteen years--from Statehood in 1907 to 1920--in the 
                        Oklahoma
                     State Senate; four years--1923 to 1927--in the National House of Representatives, and twenty-four
                    years--1927 to 1951--in the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
                In order that those who read these lines may have some understanding of the background, education and
                    qualifications of the author to serve as the representative of the people of a district and a state of some
                    two and one half million people, it is deemed appropriate that a brief history be outlined in this, the first
                    chapter.
                ANCESTORS--The name "Thomas" is one of the most common for both personal and surnames in the entire
                    list of American names. An early Thomas family originated in 
                        Wales
                     and dates back to antiquity.
                
                    Editor's note: This is the first section of Thomas's 1954 memoir, taken from a typescript of
                        unknown date, and reproduced in its entirety. The author's original subheadings and paragraph
                        structure have been maintained, with the exceptions that follow. Several penciled-in letters, all added to
                        correct misspellings, have been silently included. Some quotations with only a beginning quotation mark
                        have silently been given an end quotation mark. When periods appear outside quotation marks, they have
                        been moved to conform to the Chicago Manual of Style. Finally, a few typographical errors have been
                        corrected with the use of square brackets[ ].
                
                
                My forebears on the Thomas side migrated to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     prior to the Revolutionary War. From 
                        Pennsylvania my great
                    grandfather moved to 
                        Bath County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                     and from there my grandfather moved on to 
                        Indiana
                    .
                My grandfather Joel Thomas, was killed November 8, 1884, while attending a Democratic jollification over the
                    election of Cleveland and Hendricks, which had just occur[r]ed.1
                
                My father, William Thomas, was born June 17, 1844, in 
                        Putnam County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    .
                My mother, Elizabeth Ewing Thomas, was born October 5, 1842, in 
                        Montgomery County
                    , in the same State.
                My father and mother were married on January 1, 1863, and began housekeeping in a log house in a heavily
                    timbered area in 
                        Indiana
                    .
                On my mother's side, the Ewing family came from the Lowlands of 
                        Scotland
                    . From 
                        Scotland
                     to 
                        Ireland
                    , thence to 
                        Cecil County
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , then on to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     where my great, great gandfather purchased 322 acres of land from the government. From 
                        York County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the family moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    . The town of Ewing was named for the early settlers from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
                My father's and mother's ancestors were predominantly merchants, farmers and live stock raisers.
                My father was the eldest of a family of ten children--nine brothers and one sister--and all, of necessity,
                    chose farming as a mode of life.
                My father was a rugged individualist, and educated in the pioneer common schools of 
                        Indiana
                    . Early in his twenties he purchased some timbered land and spent much of his life in clearing the
                    land and earning the money to pay off the mortgage. He received his economic start by helping build the grade
                    for the Big Four railroad which ran east and west through the center of the state.2 He
                    took an interest in public affairs and 
                        1 Democratic jollifications or "walk-abouts" were held in cities and
                            towns nationwide following the election of Grover Cleveland to the presidency in 1884. These
                            "celebrations of the democratic process" featured parades, fireworks, and alcohol, and were
                            attended by thousands of people. Thomas's grandfather died not at the jollification, but on his
                            way home from it, when a Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago, and St. Louis ("Big Four")
                            locomotive struck and killed him as he walked along the tracks. Jesse William Weik, Weik's History of 
                                    Putnam County
                                
                             (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1910), 504.
                        2 The Big Four, formed in 1889 and headquartered in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , ran primarily through 
                                Illinois
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            , and 
                                Ohio
                            . See the 1913 Annual Report of the New York Central Railroad System (
                                New York
                            , 1914) for a history of the line, which was later absorbed by the New York
                            Central.
                    
                     always held some position in the Democratic political organization of 
                        Putnam County
                    . He held minor public offices but never tried for an office which would take him away from his
                    home and farm.3
                
                ELMER THOMAS--The subject of this sketch was born September 8, 1876, in a modest frame house in the center of a
                    wooded area near the county line between 
                        Putnam
                     and 
                        Park
                     counties located in west central 
                        Indiana
                    .
                I was the seventh child of a family of seven boys and five girls. Our family bible shows that I was born only a
                    few days after the nomination of Samuel J. Tilden for President. My ancestors on both sides were Democrats and
                    as was customary in those early days in 
                        Indiana
                    , boys were named for popular personages. Because the Democratic nominee seemed certain of
                    election, I was named "Tilden Thomas."
                My first trip away from my isolated wooded home was made on October 8, when I was just four weeks old. The
                    occasion was a Tilden Democratic rally held at 
                        Greencastle
                    , the County Seat of 
                        Pu[t]nam County
                    . In my mother's arms, in the spring seat on a high wheeled farm wagon, decorated with red,
                    white and blue bunting, together with the entire Thomas family, we participated in the Democratic parade and
                    rally.
                In the election soon to follow Tilden received a quarter of a million more votes than Rutherford B. Hayes, his
                    Republican opponent, thus causing a contest to develop. The Special Commission set up to consider and
                    determine the election decided the contest by awarding 185 votes to Hayes to 184 for Tilden.
                While my father and mother were loyal Democrats, when Tilden was defeated, and for reasons sufficient to them
                    but never satisfactorily explained to me, my name was changed from Tilden to John William Elmer, and as I have
                    stated many times, I have always regretted that Tilden was defeated.
                EARLY DAYS IN 
                    INDIANA
                    --My early days in 
                        Indiana
                     were duplicates of the days of other farm boys similarly located. I attended the 
                        Brunerstown
                     one room school where all eight grades were taught. In 1891, at the age of 15, I completed the
                    grades, but not having access to a 
                        3 Jesse William Weik, early twentieth-century historian of 
                            Putnam County
                            , notes that William Thomas "served seven years as a township trustee," but,
                            "did not care for or seek office." Weiks History of 
                                Putnam County
                                
                            , 504. 
                    
                    
                    
                         The Brunerstown School, 
                                Brunerstown
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            , n.d. Thomas attended this one-room school from 1883 to 1891. Courtesy Carl Albert
                            Congressional Research and Studies Center, University of Oklahoma
                        
                     high school, I had to content myself with attending the same school for another year. At that age I
                    was over six feet tall, but weighed scarcely one hundred thirty pounds. General farm work was my lot, but not
                    to my liking.
                We started the farm work year by opening the sugar camp in the early spring. When the sugar water was not
                    running we had plenty of rail fences to re-set. This meant tearing down sections of old fences in order to
                    throw out the decayed rails. To get new rails we had to cut the trees, saw the logs, and then split the rails
                    to replace the ones rotted away.
                Then there was always some additional land to be cleared. One year the trees, large and small, would be
                    deadened. This was accomplished by hacking the bark about waist high all around the trees. This caused the
                    trees to die and by the next year the dead trees would be felled and sawed into logs-some for rails, and cook
                    stove fuel and the balance made ready for a log rolling the following spring.
                Not being physically strong, I did not choose to try to make my living as a farmer. My great problem was to
                    find some way to get away from the farm. In those days money was scarce, which meant that dollars were
                    valuable and prices were low. Plenty of farm labor was available at $1.00 to $1.50 per day-working from early
                    sun to almost darkness. Hired hands drew from $25.00 to $30.00 per month.
                
                While timber land was cheap, the timber had little value. The work and expense of clearing the land was
                    substantial and I saw no attractive future through trying to farm in my section of 
                        Indiana
                    .
                My early days were typical of the pioneer era which thousands of other farm boys went through in 
                        Indiana
                     and the central west. On one occasion in the 
                        United States
                     Senate I had the following to say about my boyhood days in 
                        Indiana
                    :
                "During my early days my knowledge that others lived was by the sound of wooden-wheeled wagons slowly
                    traveling over frozen roads in winter, or by the sight of clouds of dust following those same early day wagons
                    in the good old summertime. I know our rural people and I know their way of life. I know of their lack of
                    almost [all] the necessities of existence. I can never forget the early day lighting systems: the coal oil
                    lamp, the lantern, the candle, the woolen rag in the greasy skillet, and the glowing blae in the open fire
                    place."
                "I know of the early-day roads in 
                        Indiana
                    . Uncomfortable in the frozen winter, impossible in the spring thaw-outs, and suffocating in the
                    summer dust."
                "I know the hardships of rural pioneer life. In my early days I worked at every job connected with an 
                        Indiana
                     farm. During one summer when my mother was ill I was assigned to work at the house where I did
                    everything that a hired girl was supposed to do."
                Being one of a large family, without wealthy parents and not having access to a high school, my problem of
                    getting away from the farm was one which at times seemed impossible of solution. I knew that I had to secure
                    an education in order to be able to do anything other than to work on a farm.
                MY FIRST GUN-What I did then could hardly be done now. I always had plenty of clothes suitable for farm work
                    and isolated country life. Likewise I always had a pleasant home, plenty to eat and an over abundance of work
                    to perform. My father owned two farms, one in 
                        Putnam County
                     and the other just across the road in 
                        Park County
                    . The land was mostly rough and wooded. Game such as rabbit, squirrel and quail was plentiful and
                    I liked to hunt but I did not own a gun. At that time the cost of any kind of a gun seemed out of the
                    question. However, I had to have a gun.
                In the neighborhood I found the remains of a single barrel shot gun that had been through a fire. All that was
                    left was the barrel. The stock was gone and the lock was missing, so all I had was the muzzle loading barrel
                    minus stock and lock. With such farm tools as a handsaw  and drawing
                    knife, I fashioned a stock which served every necessary purpose.
                Being without a lock I had to find some means to fire the gun. I managed to get some powder, some shot and a
                    box of caps, but I had to devise a plan to make the barrel and stock perform. It seemed impossible at first
                    but later it was simple and easy. To load the gun I first measured in the palm of my hand the required amount
                    of powder and then the powder was poured directly into the muzzle of the barrel. Then a wad of common paper
                    was placed in the muzzle and rammed down against the powder. All muzzle loading guns, both shot guns and
                    rifles, had to have ram rods. The paper on the powder had to be compressed so that the ram rod was used until
                    it would a[l]most jump back out of the barrel. When the powder was compressed, the shot was likewise measured
                    in the palm of the hand and then poured into the muzzle of the barrel. Again a wad of paper was placed in the
                    muzzle and the ram rod was used again to press the paper against the shot. The paper was not rammed against
                    the shot as had been done with the wad of paper against the powder. At the britch of the barrel was the
                    mechanism for firing the charge. This consisted of a hollow cylinder screwed into the side of the barrel and
                    into the cylinder was likewise screwed what was called the tube. The tube was for the cap which was necessary
                    to complete the charge or load. With the powder and shot in the barrel and a cap on the tube, the gun was
                    loaded ready for discharge.
                All this I had, but still no lock-the device containing the hammer, spring and trigger-considered necessary for
                    a shooting iron. Not to be denied the pleasure of the hunt, I found and carried with me a short bolt with a
                    square tap on the end. To fire the improvised shot gun I had to take sight and then to tap the cap on the tube
                    with the substitute hammer, spring and trigger. At first the operation was cumbersome and awkward but with
                    practice it came to be sort of second nature. At stationary targets the task was easy and accurate, but for
                    moving game the accuracy was greatly interfered with. However, it was with such an improvised, single barrel,
                    muzzle loading shot gun that I learned to shoot.
                It was at that time I came to understand the meaning of the old adage: "Necessity is the mother of
                    invention."
                BLACKSMITH SHOP-It was about this time in my existence that I developed my own blacksmith shop. Such shops were
                    common in 
                        Indiana
                     and farmers were their exclusive patrons. My shop was the crudest of the crude, but in it I was
                    able to do a lot of work. The building was a sort of "lean-to" against the wood house. Save for the
                    back and roof it  was an outside affair. The fire box was built up of
                    rough rock with the saucer shaped top lined with small slabs of limestone and 
                        Indiana
                     clay for a binder. The bellows was home made and worked, but inefficiently. A real bellows, when
                    pumped, blows constantly, but my bellows being only the upper half blew or forced the air into the fire only
                    after it was filled and then compressed, but like the shot gun, it worked.
                For an anvil I had a two foot section cut from the end of a railway rail. The hammers, punch, file and drill
                    came from the meager list of farm tools. The tongs I had to make.
                We lived adjacent to coal fields so that along all creeks and streams there were outcroppings of thin veins of
                    coal; hence, I supplied my crude shop with coal dug from our own land. The fine points of blacksmithing were
                    learned from the proprietor of the shop my father patronized. Simple welding was soon learned. Many farm items
                    were made and repaired. Laprings and clevices were easy to make. 4 Steel pointed breaking
                    plows were sharpened. The cast iron points had to be sharpened by nicking the cutting edge. We secured an iron
                    vise which was useful both for iron and wood work. In addition to work in iron, we had much to do with wood
                    and lumber. Wagon tongues, neck yokes, double trees, single trees, hoe, axe, hammer and even plow handles had
                    to be provided and kept in repair. 5
                
                SHOE REPAIRING-Living so far from town we found it necessary to repair our own shoes and boots. Half-soleing
                    and patching footwear had to be learned. Thick leather for the half soles had to be bought but the hickory
                    pegs for attaching the soles were made on the ground. A short section-about one-half inch in length-of well
                    seasoned hickory was sawed, then split into segments about as thick as cardboard. One edge of the segment was
                    sharpened to resemble a wedge, then the wedge shaped piece of hickory was separated into small particles
                    resembling a piece of wooden match, about one-half inch long and sharpened on one end. After the heavy sole
                    leather had been cut in shape to fit the shoe or boot, it was dampened with warm water so as to make it
                    pliable.
                
                    
                        4 The word lapring, as paired here with clevice, may actually be spring, because clevices could contain springs for
                        adjustment. It is possible that the typist of Thomas's original manuscript mistook a hastily
                        handwritten "s" for "la." 
                    
                        5 '"Single trees" and "double trees" are the wooden pieces
                        that make up the pivoted swinging bar to which the traces of a buggy or wagon harness are fastened, and by
                        which the vehicle is drawn. A clevice (also clevis) is a U-shaped metal fastening device secured by a bolt
                        or pin through holes in the end of the two arms. 
                
                
                When all was ready the shoe or boot was placed on a crude iron last, the softened leather half sole was fitted
                    on and with an awl a hole was driven through the half sole and into the old or permanent sole. Then a dry
                    wooden peg was inserted and driven through against the iron last. Thus the wooden peg was riveted at both ends
                    and the half sole was secure in place until it was worn away.
                The pioneers had to get along with such equipment as they could secure.
                CANE CARVED AT THE AGE OF TWELVE-On one occasion, when swimming in a nearby creek, I noticed a root containing
                    a natural crook and knot and it occurred to me that a cane could be made from the freak growth of timber. The
                    specimen was found among a mass of tangled roots from trees which had grown along the water's edge.
                The particular root which had attracted my attention had grown many feet underground and when the creek bank
                    caved off into the stream the mass of roots was exposed. The specimen vas very soft so I had no trouble in
                    cutting out the part wanted with my barlow jack knife.6
                
                When I began to carve the piece of underground root I had no idea just what it would look like when completed.
                    The work of carving the cane was performed with different sized blades of a common pocket knife of a type
                    which every farm boy possessed.
                I do not remember any reason for carving a black snake coiled around the cane, save such snake was the common
                    type in our section of 
                        Indiana
                    .
                The cane is a solid piece of wood and having been at that time very soft, the shaping of the snake was not
                    difficult.
                General George Washington was always my ideal patriot, soldier, president and citizen; hence, I tried to
                    engrave his likeness on the knotty knob of the cane. The other crude efforts at engraving were of objects such
                    as a butterfly and wild flowers most common on the farm. As a symbol of identification of the carver of the
                    cane, I cut my initials E. T.
                LAND DRAINAGE-To drain flat land, ditches were dug. For the want of regular tile, substitutes had to be used.
                    In our case we used wooden fence rails and oak slabs or short clapboards as 
                        
                            6 A Barlow knife features a single blade, a huge metal bolster, and a
                            teardrop-shaped handle. The Barlow was designed to be tough and affordable: the blade was high carbon
                            steel, the handle was bone, and not much time was spent in polishing it. Carried by George Washington
                            and mentioned by Mark Twain, Barlows were treasured by 
                                American
                             boys of Elmer Thomas's era. 
                    
                     substitutes for tile. The rail was placed on one side of the ditch and
                    the slab or clapboard was leaned against the rail so as to make an opening for the water to drain through and
                    then run off down the ditch. Always the ditch would be refilled so as to leave no trace above the ground save
                    it was certain that better crops would grow over and for short distances on either side of such oaken drainage
                    ditches.
                MAPLE SYRUP-In our sugar camp of some 100 trees, we used spiles made from elder bushes and the sugar water was
                    caught in wooden troughs chopped out of half logs and made on the ground. The sweet sugar tree water was
                    reduced to maple syrup through a series of large iron kettles paced over a rock and clay lined furnace.
                In the early spring the work of making maple syrup consisted of repairing the furnace and fitting the kettles
                    in place. Next was to cut and provide the necessary wood for fuel. Then late in February or early in March,
                    depending upon the weather, on the first warm day the trees were tapped by the use of a brace and bit about
                    one-half or five-eighths inc[h] bore. The hole in the tree was bored to about 1 1/2 to 2 inches when the elder
                    spile wasinserted and driven in so as to catch, conduct and cause the sap to drip in the wooden trough. The
                    water or sap was gathered by emptying the trough into an open barrel on a sled pulled by one or two farm
                    horses. In favorable sugar weather the one hundred trees would provide enough water each day to make from 3 to
                    5 gallons of syrup prior to stirring off and clearing.
                The latter process was always performed in the kitchen of our home. Maple sugar and taffy candy were made by a
                    third process by a further boiling and concentration of the maple syrup.
                PIONEERS-In the early pioneer days farmers, of dire necessity, had to assume to be general specialists. To
                    clear the land, break out the sod, and make a living by farming, pioneers had to do and perform many classes
                    of work. Without the benefit of schools and colleges, farm boys were do[o]med to continued existence on the
                    farm, either as a hired hand or with a renter or tenant status.
                To leave the farm and to enter any other work or calling was a problem that only a very few of my boyhood
                    friends ever successfully solved. Before explaining the route I had to travel to get away from the 
                        Indiana
                     farm, I may say that it was and still is possible for a boy with my early background to make the
                    transfer. Of my several brothers who lived to reach manhood, all left the old homestead just as soon as they
                    could develop the opportunity.
                
                Henry, my oldest brother, left the farm to enter an iron casting foundry in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Oscar, next in line, became a teacher, first in the grade common schools and later in the 
                        Greencastle
                     High School and eventually as County Superintendent of Schools in 
                        Putnam County
                     Charles, just younger than myself, became a successful undertaker and is now located in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
                Cleve, the next brother, owns and operates a casket factory, also in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where my undertaker brother takes much of his output.
                The youngest brother, Fred, is an attorney with offices in 
                        Fairborn
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . My sisters all passed away in infance or early youth.
                Some members of my family and numerous friends have suggested facetiously that I missed an opportunity and that
                    instead of going to 
                        Oklahoma
                     as a home seeker, I should have remained in 
                        Indiana
                    , studied medicine, become a doctor, and thereby being able to produce business for my undertaker
                    and coffin maker brothers.
                WILLIAM THOMAS-MY FATHER-During his entire adult life my father operated, in season, threshing machines and
                    clover hullers. He began his long record as a thresherman with an early day horsepower outfit. Later he used a
                    portable steam engine for power ad still later he used the so-called "self tractor" which not only
                    furnished the power for the threshing machine but in addition furnished the power to transport the entire
                    outfit from farm to farm. 7
                
                In the early days threshing grain was a sort of a picnic or festival occasion. Neighbors would club together,
                    as it required a number of wagons equipped with hay frames to gather the bundles shocked in the fields, and
                    haul the wheat, rye or oats to the threshing outfit. In addition to the farm wagons, men equipped with forks
                    had to be secured to pitch the bundled grain from the shocks to the wagons. At the threshing machine the
                    services of two men had to be secured to cut the bands made of either twine or straw and in addition the straw
                    from the machine had to be stacked.
                In such work, misnamed a picnic, it became my lot to work at stacking the straw. The task was neither laborious
                    nor difficult, save in handling bearded wheat and rye straw. In such cases the long, sharp 
                        
                            7 See Sanford J. Rikoon, Threshing in the Midwest: A Study of
                                Traditional Culture and Technological Change (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1988). 
                    
                     beards seemed to enjoy working their way through overalls and hickory
                    shirts, so thatby night fall the bodies of the straw stackers were almost raw from the effects of the sharp
                    barbs.
                It was a great relief for the straw stackers when the threshers were equipped with blowers and cylindrical
                    chutes so that the straw could be blown into a stack without the aid of human labor.
                The only part of the threshing picnic that was properly named were [sic] the meals prepared
                    for the hungry men. As the men assembled to perform the work of threshing the grain, the farm women likewise
                    assembled to prepare and serve the meals. This was the real enjoyable part of the threshing season.
                At the end of my father's career as a thresherman, serving parts of two counties, in 
                        Indiana
                    , one of the leading farm journals accorded him the distinction of having the longest continuous
                    record as a thresherman and also of having threshed more grain than any other person engaged in that service
                    for farmers.
                ELIZABETH EWING THOMAS-MY MOTHER-Prior to her marriage my mother taught country schools so that I always had
                    her sympathy and support in my desire to secure an education in order to be able to teach in the schools of 
                        Indiana
                    .
                In honor and in memory of my father and mother, I am glad to be able to show their pictures taken at a time
                    when I still resided on the farm.
                Also, in order to clarify some of the statements made in this chapter, I am showing a picture of my birthplace
                    taken from the nearest public highway in the year 1900.8
                
                CUFF-One of the early major losses which I sustained was the death of our family dog-"Cuff." The dog
                    was a large black compound mixture of bull dog and was only a few years younger than myself. Cuff had been my
                    constant pal and had accompanied me on every possible occasion. The mastiff was a first class watch dog but
                    not so good as a hunter. However, he had a natural antipathy for all kinds of snakes and was death to ground
                    hogs. We could never teach him to tree squirrels and he paid little attention to rabbits. He was not
                    interested in hunting at night, however, he watched over our fwls to protect them from night 
                        
                            8 This photo, contained in the original manuscript, is not of sufficient quality
                            for reproduction here. 
                    
                    
                    
                         William and Elizabeth Ewing Thomas, n.d.  Thomas's parents as they appeared at
                            atime when he "still resided on the farm." Courtesy Carl Albert Congressional Research and
                            Studies Center, University of 
                                Oklahoma
                            
                        
                     prowlers and enemies. As we both grew up and older I realized that Cuff was slowing down and that he
                    was greying around his eyes. Although growing old and feeble, he would never admit that his work was done and
                    that he was down and out. During his last days he had the best of care and plenty of good food.
                He passed away on Easter morning, 1890. I never realized exactly what death really meant until Cuff was no
                    more. As a funeral for the dog I fashioned a box to fit his body. On the bottom of the crude unpainted casket
                    I placed some straw and covered the straw with a piece of worn home made rag carpet and on such couch I placed
                    the remains of Cuff. On a hill side in the nearby orchard and in the shadow of a persimmon tree, I dug a grave
                    and buried the box and body of the dog.
                In order to pay my respect and love for the companion of my youth, I went to the sandstone cliffs nearby and
                    selected a slab of soft brown rock about three feet long, eighteen inches wide and ten inches thick. The rock
                    was sandstone and could be shaped and worked with crude tools. With a worn out axe I shaped the rock to
                    resemble a tomb stone. On one side I chipped off the rough rock for the inscription. Then with a cold chisel
                    and hammer, I cut a groove into the rock forming a life size profile of Cuff's head and underneath the
                    head I cut the following grooved inscription:
                
                 CUFF Died 1890
                I was not sufficiently skilled in rock work to shape an embossed or raised dogs head. Also, instead of trying
                    to cut raised letters I had to content myself with chiseling [sic] out grooved letters and
                    figures. When my work was completed the profile and inscription did not show up as I had hoped, so to make the
                    data understandable and readable I secured some left-over pure white lead and filled the grooves flush with
                    the surface of the rock so that no mistake could ever be made about the nature of the tomb and that it was for
                    a dog named "Cuff," who died in 1890.
                At the burial no prayers were said and no funeral was preached, nevertheless I left nothing undone to show my
                    regard for Cuff-"My dear dumb friend lying there a willing vassal at my feet," the departed family
                    dog.
                EFFORTS TO SECURE AN EDUCATION-When I had completed the eight grades in the one room country school I found
                    that I would be unable to enter the nearest high school located at 
                        Greencastle
                    , the county seat, some ten miles away.9 The unimproved roads and the means of
                    travel made such an effort impossible. From my viewpoint, my only out was to go away to some higher school in
                    order to prepare myself for teaching. My father's ancestors had been farmers in 
                        Indiana
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                     and as far as we could trace back in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . As a member of a large family of boys and girls, residing a substantial distance from any town
                    or 
                        
                            9
                            The Thirty Sixth Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1888) lists 266 high schools throughout 
                                Indiana
                            , most located in larger communities. 
                    
                     city; with the money income from our land used for interest, taxes and
                    necessary living expenses, there was nothing left to pay expenses of going away to college.
                It is true that dollars were more valuable in those days--1890-93--than they are today. With scarce and highly
                    valued money, prices were correspondingly low. In some way I learned that there was a normal school located at 
                        Danville
                    , the county seat of an adjoining county, and that the expenses of attending the school were very
                    reasonable. This fact gave me hope that I might get together enough money to attend the college at least
                    during one eight week spring term. 10
                
                With such an opportunity I felt that I could prepare myself to take the examination and perhaps thereby make a
                    six months license to teach. To get the opportunity to attend the school I had to secure two things: first,
                    the money to pay the costs and, secondly, to secure permission to leave the farm during the busy spring season
                    when all hands were needed to plant and tend the crops.
                EARLY DAY COLLEGE COSTS-Through inquiry as to the cost of an eight week spring term at Danville, I was advised
                    that the cost of a railway ticket would be $3.00. Tuition for the term would be $8.00. Room with another boy
                    would cost $.50 per week, or $4.00 for the term, and board would cost $1.50 per week, or $12.00 for the term.
                    The estimate for fuel through March and April was $1.50. Coal oil for our lamp would cost an additional $1.00.
                    Then for necessary laundry, rental of books and incidentals, an allowance of $1.00 per week, or $8.00, was
                    estimated. Finally, car fare back to Lena, our nearest railway point, necessitated another $3.00; hence, the
                    budget for the "going away to college" totalled [sic] the sum of $40.50.
                DECISION TO GO AWAY TO SCHOOL-When I was fifteen years of age, with a desire to leave the farm because I could
                    see but little future through remaining a farmer and with knowledge that I could go to the normal school for
                    one spring term for an outlay of something like $40.00, I made to me, the moment[o]us decision to work and
                    save the necessary funds to pay the expenses of the venture.
                
                    
                        10 Thomas refers here to 
                            Danville
                         Central Normal College, which moved from 
                            Lagoda
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        , to 
                            Danville
                         in 1878. As a normal school, it specialized in training teachers, but was also known for its
                        strong businesscurriculum. Peak enrollment, around 1890, was 1,300 students per year, but by 1945 the
                        number dwindled and the college closed. 
                            Howard County
                        
                        
                            Indiana
                         History and Pioneer Genealogy, http://www.countyhistory.com/howard/start.html. 
                
                
                In those days-the winter of 1891-2-with hard times on the farm, brought about by the lowest prices in decades,
                    the task for a fifteen year old farm boy to make and save $40.00 seemed next to impossible. In our section of
                    the state land owners had but little money. Our grocery bill was limited to such items as coffee, brown sugar,
                    soda, pepper and spices, all secured in exchange for butter and eggs at either the huckster wagon or the
                    nearby small country store. 11
                
                The fall shoes, boots and winter clothing for the family were secured in exchange for the year's crop of
                    turkeys. To secure the money to pay the interest and taxes we had to depend upon the sale of calves and
                    hogs.
                We raised wheat for flour and seed but none for sale. We raised corn for meal and feed for hogs, horses and
                    cows. Timothy hay was raised for tiding such livestock as we had through the seemingly long and cold winters.
                    For the want of money, most transactions with the proprietor of the huckster wagon, as well as at the country
                    store, were on a barter basis. Produce sold and goods purchased were valued in dollars and cents but little
                    real money actually changed hands.
                It was under such conditions that I had to work and save sufficient money to even pay for one spring term at
                    the nearest available normal college. My problem was to make the money as I had no trouble in saving what I
                    could make. Where I lived there was not much to spend money for.
                HOW I FINANCED FIRST TERM-During the winter when I was fifteen years old I managed to secure a few steel traps
                    which I used in trying to trap possum, skunk, mink and coon. Such fur bearing animals existed but were not
                    plentiful either on our and or nearby Also, prices for pelts were very low. An o'possum pelt brought from
                    15 to 20 cents. Skunk pelts were valued according to the white fur contained and brought from 20 cents for
                    wide strips to $1.00, for pelts graded as stars. The top price was for a large pelt of good fur and with only
                    a small spot of white on the head. Mink and coon pelts were graded according to size 
                        
                            11 Thomas refers to the roots of the Depression of 1893, which historians have
                            blamed on such issues as the deflation dating back to the Civil War, the gold standard and monetary
                            policy, underconsumption, and government extravagance. For agriculture in particular, storms, drought,
                            and overproduction during the preceding six years had reversed the remarkable prosperity and expansion
                            of the early 1880s in the wheat, corn, and cotton belts. See Douglas W Steeples, Democracy in Desperation: The Depression of 1893 (
                                Westport
                            , 
                                Conn.
                            , 1998). 
                    
                     and the quality of the fur and only the best grade brought as much as
                    $1.00 per pelt.
                In addition to trapping, I devoted much time to hunting for fur bearing animals at night. Usually I accompanied
                    two of my nearby neighbors who owned a first class coon dog. Neither the trapping nor the night hunting was
                    profitable, however, when we sold our accumulation of pelts and divided the proceeds I found that my
                    winter's work had netted exactly $4.00.
                My next problem was how to invest the $4.00 so as to make some additional money. In the neighborhood I learned
                    that I could purchase two very young runt pigs for $2.00 apiece. I made the purchase and carried the two small
                    porkers home in a pasteboard box. At home we had milk and "slop" to feed the pigs and in the face of
                    jibes and considerable merriment about my venture, the pigs soon began to show signs of growth. In a
                    relatively short time they outgrew their wrinkles and became regular members of the hog family. This was in
                    the early spring of 1892. In due time the pigs developed into real hogs. We always killed and put up our own
                    supply of meat, so instead of selling my two hogs on the market, I was able to sell them to my father to go
                    into our next year's meat supply. I do not know how much the hogs weighed and did not know what was their
                    worth, but when my Father offered me $40.00 for the two hogs a sale was promptly made. With the sale price of
                    $40.00 in my possession, my long dream of going away to college to prepare myself for teaching was at last a
                    real possibility.
                I did not have too much trouble in securing the permission of my father to be away during the maple syrup and
                    the plowing and spring planting seasons, but it was understood that I would be back to help out with the
                    harvest.
                LEAVING FOR NORMAL SCHOOL-I saved what additional money I could make and was ready to leave for college in late
                    February, 1893. Packing my belongings was no problem. I borrowed an oil cloth covered valise from an older
                    brother and packed such clothing as I did not plan to wear and included such books as I had and thought I
                    might need. When I had included all items, I found that the valise was not nearly full, so I filled the empty
                    space with crumpled newspapers in order to hold everything in place.
                When the day came to leave, clad in my best suit, with my possessions in the worn oil cloth valise and with a
                    little more than $40.00 in my pocket, I took the slow "Big Four" train, consisting of engine,  baggage car and coach, at Lena and was on my way to the Central Normal
                    College located at 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    .
                ARRIVED AT 
                        DANVILLE
                     -At the college town, the county seat of 
                        Hendricks county
                     I found conditions as advertised so that I was able to live within my budget. However, I learned
                    that some students were able to make some money by soliciting for the town laundry; for securing new students
                    to patronize the boarding clubs, and performing odd jobs around the college. The spring term at the college
                    had the largest enrollment of the year. During the other terms the regular enrollment was about 500, but
                    during the spring term, due to the number of youngsters who wanted to try to get a license to teach in the
                    common schools, the enrollment increased to 1,000 or to as many as could be accom[m]odated.
                The student patronage was confined almost entirely to boys and girls from rural areas and from small towns.
                    Most of the students went to the 
                        Danville
                     Normal because it was the only school they could enter due to meager finances and limited
                    educational qualifications.
                At the college I enrolled in classes which I thought would help me pass the examination-a necessary preliminary
                    to securing a license to teach. The term was uneventful save plenty of study and class attendance. For the
                    lack of money I was relegated largely to the role of an observer. It was my first trip away from the farm;
                    hence, everything was new and strange. The little county seat town, although only twenty miles distance from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was very primitive. Both streets and sidewalks were of gravel. Student rooms were lighted by
                    coal oil lamps. The heat was provided by small coal stoves. Very few houses ad running water. The college
                    rooms were as primitive as the residences of the town. 
                        Danville
                     had neither a theater nor a place for public assembly. Save the college auditorium and class
                    rooms, the only places of assembly were the churches; hence, they were always well attended.
                The eight week spring term was soon over when I again packed my belongings and caught the accommodations-Big
                    Four-train for Lena, the nearest station which was four miles from home. Because of the lack of communication
                    facilities, I did not advise my parents the date of my arrival. They received mail but once a week and I had
                    not advised my family just when the term would be completed.
                After patronizing the railway to Lena, in order to reach my home I walked and carried all my baggage which
                    although after a term in college was anything but heavy. I arrived just in time for dinner-the noon day meal.
                    In passing I might suggest that upon my return I had some of  the original
                    $40.00 left. The only change in my budgeted expenditures was due to the fact that I was allowed a rebate on my
                    board in the sum of ten cents per week for each student I induced to take (his or her) meals at our boarding
                    club. However, I was never able to get my board for less than $1.00 per week.
                FIRST TERM COMPLETED-My first term in college served to teach me plain and solid economics and the real value
                    of a dollar. Today when I reflect back upon those early days I am compelled to admit that sometimes things
                    moved rather swiftly. On a single day-I checked out of college; packed my books and clothes; took the train
                    for home; carried all my baggage; walked four miles and spent the entire long afternoon between the handles of
                    a double shovel plowing ankle high corn on my father's farm.
                A SCHOOL TEACHER-Later in the summer the County Superintendent of Schools held an examination for those who
                    were applicants to teach the following term. I took the test and was awarded a license to teach. With the
                    license I was able to secure a school located far back in the woods at a point known as "Happy
                    Hollow." I began teachng on the first Monday in September, 1893, a few days before I had my seventeenth
                    birthday.
                The school term was for six months, or 120 teaching days. My salary was $2.00 per day. I boarded at home and
                    walked back and forth to school, a distance of three miles each way. I had an average of 50 pupils and taught
                    all of the eight grades.
                The school term was out about the middle of March, and realizing my lack of qualifications, I left home again
                    for the same normal school. Having saved practically all my salary, I was able to remain in the normal during
                    both the spring and summer terms. However, I was through in time to return to the farm to help out with the
                    harvest.
                During the summer of 1894 I secured another license to teach and was assigned to the same "Happy
                    Hollow" institution. The term was six months again and the pupils were practically the same. About the
                    only difference was that my salary had been increased to $2.75 per day. With the low prices current in the
                    early nineties, the salary was much more than it now appears.
                The school year was a duplicate of the year before and not knowing of any other school I was qualified to
                    enter, I again went to the 
                        Danville
                     private normal college. During the two terms I took a course in public speaking and at the end of
                    the year all students in the class were  required to prepare and deliver
                    orations on subjects to be assigned by Miss Dorsey, the teacher in charge. My subject was "Fine and
                    Liberal Arts in 
                        America
                    ."
                I was able to tell all I had learned about my subject in about eight minutes. The address was delivered before
                    the student body assembled in the college auditorium. The foregoing however was not all the use I made of my
                    oration.
                My home county of 
                        Putnam
                     was the seat of DePauw University. At DePauw, being a Methodist university where many young men
                    prepared themselves for the ministry, the subject of oratory assumed a major status. Such student names as
                    Daniel W. Voorhees, James E. Watson, Albert J. Beveridge, E. Jean Nelson, James H. Wilkerson, and Tom Nadal
                    were famous as public speakers throughout the countryside.12
                
                Having been born during one of the warmest political campaigns in 
                        Indiana
                     history, I became convinced very early that the ability to speak in public was a necessity if one
                    aspired to get ahead. Hence, my interest in public speaking.
                WON ORATORICAL CONTEST-At 
                        Bainbridge
                    , in my county, was held an annual fair, typical of other county fairs held throughout the state.
                    In preparing the program for the 1895 fair, the managers arranged, in addition to the regular exhibits, an
                    oratorical contest. The contest was open to both teachers and pupils in the common schools of the county.
                The prize for the winning orator was a one year's scholarship at the normal school which I was at the time
                    attending. Being 18 years of age and a 
                        Putnam County
                     teacher, I was eligible for the contest. This contest afforded a possible further opportunity for
                    me to increase my time at college. I made application to enter the contest and at the same time I secured
                    permission from my father and mother that in the event I won that I could spend the following entire year in
                    using up the scholarship.
                On the appointed day I appeared at the fair and spoke from the grandstand. It so happened that I could use the
                    same oration that I had delivered the day before at the 
                        Danville
                     normal. There were seven other contestants and for reasons sufficient to the judges, I was
                    declared the 
                        
                            12 Voorhees (1827-1897), Watson (1864-1928), and Beveridge (1862-1927) all served 
                                Indiana
                             in the U.S. Senate; E. Jean (Nelson) Penfield (1872-1961) was a women's rights
                            attorney and orator; James H. Wilkerson ( 1881-1950) served as a U.S. district court judge in 
                                Chicago
                            ; Thomas Nadal (1875-?) was an academic administrator in 
                                Michigan
                             and 
                                Missouri
                            . 
                    
                     winner. The winning of the contest was the outstanding event in my life
                    up to that time.
                As per promise and plans, I entered the Central Normal at the beginning of the 1895-6 college year. At the end
                    of that year I had completed eight terms and was advised that if I could attend another full year that I could
                    complete the course prescribed, which would entitle me to a diploma and a degree. With such an outlook it was
                    not difficult to secure both permission and finances to attend the college during the year 1896-7.
                BECAME INTERESTED IN POLITICS-During my attendance at the 
                        Danville
                     college, my interest in public affairs from a democratic viewpoint was greatly intensified. My
                    home county had always been solidly democratic, while 
                        Hendricks county
                     and 
                        Danville
                    , its county seat, were as strongly republican.
                At the college each party had well organized political clubs and as always in 
                        Indiana
                     during campaign years, partisan activity and enthusiasm ran high. The clubs selected
                    representatives to meet and debate the issues declared as paramount by the respective national conventions.
                    Such political debates were always well attended and vociferously conducted.
                After I had won the oratorical contest and re-entered college, I found that in addition to college club
                    debates, I had invitations to make political speeches outside the college town and even in distant
                    counties.
                From the day that William Jennings Bryan was nominated for president on the Democratic ticket at 
                        Chicago
                    , I was one of his most enthusiastic supporters and followers. Coming from the farm and knowing of
                    the low farm commodity prices, I was attracted by the Democratic platform which "demanded the free and
                    unlimited coinage of both silver and gold at the present legal ratio of 16 to 1. 13
                
                It was because of the Bryan campaign in 1896 that I became interested in the science of money. After studying
                    the 1896 democratic platform declaration on silver, I was convinced that the hard times in the early nineties,
                    culminating in the lowest prices ever in 1896, were the result of a dearth of money in circulation.
                
                    
                        13 Bryan (1860-1925), three-time Democratic presidential nominee, ran his 1896
                        campaign on a "Free Silver 16:1" platform, calling for coinage at a ratio of 16 ounces of silver
                        to 1 ounce of gold. Republican presidential nominee William McKinley won the election with the support of
                        those who rejected the free silver idea. 
                
                
                I interpreted the democratic program, wherein the free and unlimited coinage of silver was demanded, to mean
                    that if such program could be carried into effect that to the extent that silver was brought to the mints,
                    coined into money and placed in circulation, money would become more plentiful and thereby cheaper in term of
                    all kinds of commodities, goods and property. To me this meant a rise in farm prices.
                FREE SILVER CAMPAIGN OF 1896-At that time I was nineteen years of age, six foot two inches tall, weighed less
                    than 150 pounds, so did not make a very imposing figure as a campaign speaker. However, I knew the farm and
                    farm life so I thought I was able to explain the "free silver-16 to 1 issue" in a way to appeal to
                    farm and small town audiences. The burden of my speeches was to try to show that the Bryan democratic program
                    would raise farm prices and thus bring about better times and promote prosperity not only for farm people but
                    for all the people of the entire country.
                In addition to debates wherein I tried to uphold the democratic platform I made some thirty speeches in various
                    parts of 
                        Indiana
                    . When Bryan visited 
                        Indianapolis
                     and made his tour through 
                        Indiana
                    , I attended a number of his major rallies. When the campaign was over Bryan lost 
                        Indiana
                     by only 8,181 votes.
                BURIED IN EFFIGY-In the entire 
                        United States
                     the Democratic ticket lost by only 567,692 votes. Although defeated, I was not discouraged,
                    however, I had to experience some embarrassments. On the next day after the election result was known, members
                    of the McKinley club shaped a mound on the college campus and placed at the head a board on which was printed
                    "HEREIN LIES ELMER THOMAS WHO DIED FIGHTING FOR FREE SILVER."
                In 
                        Indiana
                     political contests were not only enthusiastically waged but they often became bitterly contested.
                    In those earlier days issues did not count for as much in some places as did something of more concrete value.
                    Prior to 1900 it was often said that the party raising the largest campaign fund always carried the
                    election.
                There were three parties or groups of voters in the State: The Democratic Party, the Republican Party and a
                    sizeable group known as doubtful or floaters. The floaters claimed to be regular party members but they were
                    known to be susceptible of influences at election times.
                In certain areas on election days the voting wage schedule was definite and well known to the electorate. Votes
                    known to be delivered in sup-  port of one party commanded in at least one
                    election the sum at $50. In that same election the wage for remaining away from the polls was $25.
                Before the Australian voting system was adopted in 
                        Indiana
                    , blank ballots could be secured, then marked away from the voting place, and when such already
                    marked ballots were accepted and deposited in the boxes, the honorarium was paid to the professional
                        floater.14
                
                During my last years at the 
                        Danville
                     college I decided that I did not want to continue teaching as a profession and, as most of the
                    men participating in political affairs in the state were lawyers, I decided to study law. The college provided
                    a course in law and the instructors were active practitioners and members of the 
                        Hendricks County
                     Bar. In addition we had lectures on special subjects by some of the prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyers.
                Upon being graduated in August 1897, I was awarded a diploma in law and on graduation day the members of the
                    class were admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the State.
                Having received the benefits from the scholarship and having exhausted my savings from teaching, I found it
                    necessary to resume teaching in order to make some money to enter DePauw University where I planned to
                    complete my college training.
                After completing the course at 
                        Danville
                    , I was able to secure a higher grade of teachers' license and, being better prepared, I was
                    able to secure a school near 
                        Greencastle
                     and at a higher salary.
                ENTERED DEPAUW UNIVERSITY-At the conclusion of my third full year of teaching I entered DePauw University for
                    the spring term of 1898. At that time I had been teaching and attending the normal college for six years, so I
                    decided to make every effort to remain in college until I could be graduated.
                With the credits accepted by DePauw officials, I was able to plan to complete the selected course in June of
                    1900.
                Upon entering the University I had bids to join Greek letter fraternities. At that time, Charles A. Beard15 was one of the most promising of 
                        
                            14 The Australian or "official" ballot was instituted in most states in
                            the 1890s. Before its introduction, each party created its own unofficial ballot or "party
                            strip" listing only its candidates and had "party hawkers" offer the party strip to the
                            voters in and around the polling station. The Australian ballot was state-prepared and
                            state-administered (hence, an official ballot); it listed the candidates of all parties, and it was
                            secret. The new system thus offered the voter an impartial, multiple-choice instrument upon which to
                            deliberate and make a decision in the privacy of the voting booth. 
                    
                    
                    
                         Members of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity, DePauw University, n.d.  Thomas writes
                            that he refused to join Phi Gam because he thought it "specialized too much in athletics."
                            Historian Charles A. Beard is seated at right. Courtesy Archives of DePauw University
                     the student body. He was an outstanding student and a famous debater. On behalf of his
                    "frat" he gave me a bid to join his group. Had all the members of his organization measured up to
                    his standard I would have gladly become a DePauw "Phi Gam." The reason I rejected the bid was due to
                    the fact that I thought the "frat" was specializing too much in athletics.
                With the opportunities available to me, I accepted the bid and became a member of the Phi Delta Theta
                    fraternity.
                Having to still live on a very economical basis, I had to govern all my activities accordingly. The Phi Delt
                    group of boys were not as a rule of wealthy parents. The membership had various and varied interests 
                        
                            15 On the early years of Charles A. Beard (1874-1948), American historian, see
                            John Braeman, "Charles A. Beard: The Formative Years in 
                                Indiana
                            ," 
                                
                                    Indiana
                                 Magazine of History, 78 (June 1982), 93-127. 
                    
                     which covered most of the university activities. The fraternity had more
                    chapters in the State Colleges and Universities than any other national organization; hence, Phi Delts
                    controlled such inter college activities as the State Oratorical and State Athletic Associations. The fact
                    that the group of boys more nearly represented what I thought a fraternity should be was the deciding factor
                    in my decision which was then considered important.
                Later my early judgment was vindicated. With a large local membership and with more chapters in the state than
                    any other fraternity I found many benefits and advantages that were not made known to me when I was solicited
                    to join the group.
                Being interested in public speaking, in my junior year, I tried out for the debate team but as was customary,
                    the DePauw representatives in all inter collegiate contests as a rule were selected from the senior class.
                    However, during such year, by virtue of our numbers and through assistance from friendly fraternities, I was
                    accorded a place on the editorial staff of The Palladium, the University paper.
                At the close of each college year the junior class selects the Editor in Chief and the staff to get out the Mirage, the college annual. Again, I was selected to be the Editor in Chief of the souvenir
                    of the class of 1900.
                The work of preparing the text, securing the pictures and financing the publication was laborious but it was
                    worth all it cost. Because of his great reputation in 
                        Indiana
                    , the book was dedicated to U. S. Senator Albert J. Beveridge.
                During my senior year I tried out again for the debate team and was successful. Our debate was with Butler
                    College located in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the contest was held in the Capitol City. The question to be debated was: "Resolved that
                    United States Senators should be elected by popular vote."
                As a member of the team I had to support the negative of the question. In the contest, DePauw lost.
                PLANNED ROAD IMPROVEMENT-When I had completed my work at DePauw, I realized that I was in debt, so the item had
                    to have attention. Here, again, some plans had to be made and carried out. Our home was located adjacent to
                    the county line which meant that we were almost ten miles from the county seat. The roads were open but almost
                    wholly unimproved. Culverts and bridges of sorts were in place and some drainage and grading had been provided
                    and constructed, but even  the main roads were at times next to
                    impassible. All my life I had heard complaints against the roads leading to 
                        Greencastle
                    . In those days the roads were under the jurisdiction of the townships which formed the counties.
                    The roads for a few miles in each direction from the county seat were improved with grading, culverts and
                    bridges, but there were no such roads in our township.
                While at DePauw I pursued my law studies in the office of P. O. Colliver, one of the most successful attorneys
                    of the county. 16 Realizing the need for improved roads in our section, and believing that
                    the free holders would vote bonds to grade and gravel at least two roads across the township, I prepared the
                    necessary preliminary petitions in order to give the proposal a test. The petitions, under the law, had to
                    describe the exact location of the roads to be improved. Also, the nature of the improvements, and the
                    estimated cost had to be set out. The law required that a certain number of signature [sic]
                    must be secured prior to the presentation of such petition to the Board of County Commissioners.
                As before stated, DePauw University was located in 
                        Greencastle
                    , the county seat of my home county, so I was in a position to look after all phases of the
                    proposed road improvement program. All the time I had in mind that if the project went through that I might
                    get a job in connection with the construction of the highways.
                The Board of Commissioners approved the petition and ordered an election to permit the tax paying voters to
                    pass judgment on the project. Prior to the election the details of the proposed project had to be explained so
                    I announced public meetings to be held in each school district. The campaign was similar to all public bond
                    issue proposals. In the election an approved number of qualified voters favored the bonds to finance the
                    roads. The next step was to have the necessary surveys, plans and specifications made preliminary to
                    advertising for bids. All necessary steps were taken and the actual work of construction was begun only a few
                    days before my graduation from DePauw which occur[r]ed early in June of 1900.
                Again immediately after I left college I began work as a gravel hauler on the roads under construction. My
                    father furnished the team, wagon and gravel bed, and I did the work on a fifty-fifty division of the 
                        
                            16 Presly 0. Colliver (1852-?) was a well-respected 
                                Putnam County
                             attorney. By 1910, a decade after Thomas's internship, Colliver was serving as judge
                            of the 13th judicial district of 
                                Indiana
                            . Weik, Weik's History of 
                                    Putnam County
                                
                            , 434. 
                    
                     wages collected. My job as a gravel hauler lasted five months, beginning
                    about the middle of June and lasted until about the middle of November. During this period I had plenty of
                    time to consider and develop plans for the future. Teaching school had lost its appeal because of the short
                    terms and low salaries paid. Entering the practice of law in our county seat town likewise offered little to
                    look forward to because of the lack of legal business in that section of the state. The younger lawyers were
                    not meeting with success and the older attorneys were barely getting by.
                HEARD ABOUT 
                        OKLAHOMA
                     -Some time during the summer of 1900 I happened to see in the Lena railway depot a poster
                    advertising the Rough Riders Convention to be held in 
                        Oklahoma City
                    , 
                        Oklahoma
                     Territory, later in the year. The railway fare was very low and from the poster I learned that a
                    railroad ran from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Oklahoma City
                    . The railway poster advertised that Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, former commander of the Rough
                    Riders and at the time the Republican nominee for Vice-President, would attend the convention.
                I was unable to take advantage of the low fare to the convention, but the poster gave me information that led
                    to an investigation of both 
                        Oklahoma
                     and Indian Territories. The west half of the Indian populated area was designated " 
                        Oklahoma
                     " and the eastern half was designated as "Indian Territory." I learned that most
                    of the west half had been opened to white settlement by the famous "Run of 1889."17
                
                OPENING OF INDIAN RESERVATION-At about this time the Congress passed a law authorizing the opening of a large
                    area in Southwest 
                        Oklahoma
                     known as the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Indian Reservation. The and was to be divided into three
                    counties and disposed of by lottery. In order to be qualified to participate in the government lottery, the
                    individual ha to be twenty one years of age, single or the head of a family and not having already had the
                    benefit of the public domain homestead laws.18
                
                
                    
                        17 The Land Run of 1889 opened large parts of modern day 
                            Oklahoma
                         (
                            Canadian
                        , 
                            Cleveland
                        , 
                            Kingfisher
                        , 
                            Logan
                        , 
                            Oklahoma
                        , and 
                            Payne
                         counties) for settlement. The run began at noon on April 22, 1889, with an estimated 50,000
                        people lined up for their piece of the available two million acres. 
                    
                        18 The Homestead Act, signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln in 1862, gave 160
                        acres of undeveloped western land to any adult who would occupy and develop the land for at least five
                        years. The act helped to create more than 372,000 farms. 
                
                
                This Federal program opened a field of speculation which some one hundred and ten thousand persons sought to
                    take advantage of. It was this opportunity which caused me to decide to go to Oklahoma.
                With the proceeds of my five month's work on the gravel road, I was able to pay some of my accumulated
                    debts and to purchase a one way homeseekers excursion ticket from 
                        Greencastle
                     to 
                        Oklahoma City
                    .
                At that time I had just passed my twenty-fourth birthday; the road work completed, all school terms were under
                    way, so, being unemployed, I found no objections from any source to my decision "To go west and grow up
                    with the country." My leaving the farm was of little, if any, interest to either the members of my family
                    or to the neighbors, as I had already spent four full years away in college. Besides, I was convinced that
                    most of my friends thought I would soon return.
                LEFT 
                        INDIANA
                     FOR 
                        OKLAHOMA
                     I was placing my still meager baggage in the two wheeled cart, my Mother asked, "When will
                    you get back?" Conscious of my thin pocket book and knowing little of conditions in 
                        Oklahoma
                     and the Indian Territories, my answer was, "Probably as soon as I can work my way
                    home."
                Fred, a younger brother, drove me to the train on Saturday and I was soon on my way to a strange and unknown
                    country.
            
            
                 Doing Local History in 
                        Indiana
                    
                    A Conversation with Linda Lou Rippy, Charlotte Sellers, and Joseph L. Skvarenina 
                none
                
                In 2003, when the 
                            Indiana
                         Magazine of History surveyed its over 8,000 subscribers about their historical interests
                    and reading habits, three out of every four respondents expressed a desire to know more about local history
                    activities around the state. The following year we published David Vanderstel's interview with Sal
                    Cilella and Reid Williamson about the activities of the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society (IHS) and Historic Landmarks Foundation of 
                        Indiana
                    . In a letter to the editor published shortly thereafter, IUPUI history professor Robert Barrows
                    pointed out that since Cilella (now chief operating officer of the 
                        Atlanta
                     Historical Society) and Williamson (now retired) directed "the two largest and best-endowed
                    historical organizations in 
                        Indiana
                    , they are automatically unrepresentative of the state's public history community writ large.
                        
                         Linda Lou Rippy directs the 
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society. Charlotte Sellers is the local history librarian at the 
                                Jackson County
                             Public Library in 
                                Seymour
                            . Joseph L. Skvarenina has worked in the nonprofit world for thirty years, is an author
                            and the 
                                Hancock County
                             historian. 
                        
                            1 Keith A. Erekson, "Bringing Research to the General Public: Responses to
                            the March 2003 Readers' Survey," 
                                    Indiana
                                 Magazine of History 100 (March 2004), 56-70; "The State of Public History
                            in 
                                Indiana
                            : A Conversation with David Vanderstel, Reid Williamson, and Sal Cilella," IMH 100 (June 2004), 155-72; Robert G. Barrows, "Letter to the Editor,"
                                IMH 101(March 2005), 101. County historians are listed by county at
                            http://www.indianahistoryorg/lhs/historianlist.html. Links to many 
                                Indiana
                             local history museums, societies, and sites may be found at
                            http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist/online_content/indiana_history links.html. John M. Harris, 
                    
                     This roundtable conversation seeks to follow up on readers'
                    interests, and to extend the conversation about public history begun at the state level, by hearing from
                    Hoosiers practicing history on a local scale.
                In the fall of 2006, IMH assistant editor Keith Erekson hosted an online conversation with
                    three local history practitioners from around the state-Linda Lou Rippy of Plymouth in 
                        Marshall County
                    , Joseph Skvarenina of 
                        Greenfield
                     in 
                        Hancock County
                    , and Charlotte Sellers of 
                        Brownstown
                     in 
                        Jackson County
                    . An edited transcript of the conversation served as a jumping-off point for a discussion at a
                    session held at the February 2007 meeting of the 
                        Indiana
                     Association of Historians in 
                        Bloomington
                    . The energy and enthusiasm proved impossible to transcribe, but some of the questions raised and
                    solutions proposed in that setting were appended to the end of the transcript. The full transcript was then
                    sent to three historians interested in local history who work in different places throughout the country:
                    Rebecca Conard at Middle 
                        Tennessee
                     State University, Jannelle Warren-Findley at 
                        Arizona
                     State University, and David Glassberg at the University of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , 
                        Amherst
                    .
                What follows here are the edited transcript of the conversation with local practitioners, and the subsequent
                    reactions and reflections from those outside the region. We hope that these remarks will serve as another
                    installment in an ongoing conversation about the varieties and significance of local history work in 
                        Indiana
                     and the nation.
                
                     PERSONAL AND AUDIENCE INTERESTS 
                    IMH: Why don't you begin by describing what you do and why you are interested in history?
                    JOSEPH SKVARENINA: I am a professional fundraiser at the Center for Leadership Development in 
                            Indianapolis
                         as well as the official 
                            Hancock County
                         Historian (since 1991), a former president of the Hancock Historical Society, vice president
                        of the Riley Old Home Society and a current member of the board of the 
                            Shirley
                         Historical Society I have written a great deal on 
                            Hancock County
                         and 
                            Indiana
                         history, including copy for Black History Notes and Traces, and a column on local history for the local newspapers since 1978. I have just finished
                        writing a 
                             former director of the IHS Local History Services, provided useful orientation and
                                recommendations about local history work in the state. 
                        
                         history of Emmaus Lutheran Church in 
                            Fountain Square
                        , and I am currently working on the history of Mt. Lebanon United Methodist church in 
                            Greenfield
                        .2 I participate in many local festivals, and have also done presentations
                        at Leadership 
                            Hancock County
                         and for the 
                            Indiana
                         Historical Society's speakers bureau.
                    I like local history because it is easier to get near primary sources. I used to hunt arrowheads and
                        collect stamps with my dad. I guess that got me on the path. I am very interested in American Indian
                        history, and it seems that I have started to develop some specialties in social, religious, and African
                        American history. I collect history books and I own more books than anything else. I have a
                        bachelor's degree in secondary education (with emphases in history, government, and geography), a
                        master's degree in educational administration from Kent State University, and am a commissioned
                        minister in the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod. I currently teach adjunct courses in historical methods,
                        world history, cross-cultural studies, writing, and literature for Concordia University and Oakland
                        University.
                    CHARLOTTE SELLERS: I am a reference and local history librarian at the main public library in Seymouran
                        1850s railroad junction that quickly grew into the county's largest city, provoking more than 150
                        years of conflict over the courthouse location that has since translated into a high school athletics
                        rivalry with the county seat of 
                            Brownstown
                        . Not knowing that, I moved to 
                            Brownstown
                         (after editing regional news at The Republic in 
                            Columbus
                        ) because I had always wanted to edit a small-town newspaper. Then newspapers changed, I
                        changed, and after starting part-time at the library to support my freelancing, I found myself commuting
                        to 
                            Bloomington
                         to earn a master of library science degree. This is a long way of saying I should have been a
                        history major at Franklin College, but watching my roommate struggle to memorize all those dates, I opted
                        for English.
                    Shortly after leaving the 
                            Brownstown
                         paper, I started to work on the family history I'd always wanted to know, leading me to
                        believe that history should be taught from the present backward and from micro- 
                            
                                2
                                Black Buggies and Bonnets: Memories of an Amish Life (
                                    Milroy
                                , 
                                    Ind.
                                , 2006); The Road to Emmaus: Historical Highlights of Emmaus Lutheran
                                    Church (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 2005); Memoirs of World War II: NBA Robin Run Retirement Village
                                    Remembers (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 2003); 
                                    
                                        Hancock County
                                    
                                , with Larry L. Fox ( 
                                    Chicago
                                , 
                                    Ill.
                                , 2001); Great: Stories of the Famous and Not-so-Famous of 
                                        Hancock County
                                     (
                                    Greenfield
                                , 
                                    Ind.
                                , 2000); and History of the Riley Old Home Society (
                                    Greenfield
                                , 
                                    Ind.
                                , 1999). 
                        
                         cosm to macro. I have enjoyed the history-related learning
                        opportunities that have fueled my passion for "nearby" history as well as family research.
                        Appointment as 
                            Jackson County
                         Historian a few years ago let me dig into the local past. I am trying to develop a history
                        roundtable among folks working on projects in this county which has not been very friendly to its rich
                        history. I have been indexing local history for several years and worked as a resource person with
                        Leadership 
                            Jackson County
                         's history projects last spring. I am on the newly incorporated 
                            Seymour
                         Museum board. Through the library I arrange some history programming that does not draw a
                        large crowd. For the past four years I have edited The 
                                Ind.
                             Genealogist and am a member of the long-range planning committee of the 
                            Ind.
                         Genealogical Society.
                    LINDA RIPPY: In 1992, after 29 years of working as a medical assistant, I was hired at the 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society in 
                            Plymouth
                         and became the executive director in 1997. I have been the 
                            Marshall County
                         Historian since 1992 and belong to many history-related organizations, including terms as
                        president of Kiwanis Club, 
                            Plymouth
                         Public Library, and the Chamber of Commerce. I am married with three grown sons and five
                        grandchildren and have lived in Plymouth since 1957. I graduated from Ancilla, a junior college in 
                            Marshall County
                        .
                    My whole life is now entwined in history because of my position in the county. Every September, I present a
                        PowerPoint program to Leadership of 
                            Marshall County
                         that incorporates local photos. Having just received a grant from the Community Foundation
                        for a laptop and projector, I can now take my shows on the road. History was not on my priority list when
                        I was in high school, but my work at the museum has given me a broader sense of what exists in our own
                        backyards. That is what makes history interesting. I enjoy school tours because children quickly connect
                        to their own surroundings which expands their minds on the bigger picture of history.
                    IMH: Let's talk about your audiences. Who are they? Why are they interested in the past and in
                        history?
                    SKVARENINA: I find that more individuals want to know about their families and their homes-their individual
                        circumstances. I believe as society becomes more technological, people want to go back to the simpler
                        times. I don't do high-tech presentations but I do bring artifacts. People like something that they
                        can touch and see. They also seem less interested in battles and more interested in the persons behind the
                        scenes. More and more people are showing interest in oral history efforts.
                    
                    I am surprised at the distance folks will travel if something interests. I once participated in a
                        "Riley Weekend" to which folks traveled many miles in order to visit sites related to poet James
                        Whitcomb Riley. I wanted to say more women than men come to my presentations, but I rebel against the
                        assertions. I wish it was 50-50 but I really do not know. I also find that more and more young people seem
                        interested in doing history.
                    SELLERS: Defining my audiences has been hard. I have several; they are diverse; all smaller than I believe
                        local history deserves. Library history programs (formerly one a month, now two) seldom draw more than 20
                        individuals and too many draw only one or two. Lunchtime reminiscences with "seniors" draw
                        better attendance than have well-researched profiles of gambling, cockfighting, horse racing, or talks by
                        IU professors on using maps or archaeology in local history. One year I wrote a monthly column for the
                        " 
                            Seymour
                         Sunday" section of The Republic. Some folks who came into the
                        library-most well over 50 years old mentioned reading or even enjoying the column. I received no written
                        responses-and from my experience as a reporter, I really didn't expect any-but both local newspapers
                        expressed interest in having me write a local history column for them about that same time, so they must
                        have thought an audience existed.
                    The hard-working local genealogical society has a good research library that is busy most of the time it is
                        open. At least four museums with different and limited hours present very different approaches to
                        preservation, storytelling, and professionalism. The Heritage Foundation for preservation of buildings has
                        fallen into inactivity (and into court over misuse of funds), but before its demise several structures in
                        the process of being preserved fell victim to collapse, fire, or "progress."
                    A handful of individuals pursue their own research projects with intermittent enthusiasm. Most either are
                        retired or have jobs that allow them freedom during hours research facilities are open. Some keep personal
                        scrapbooks about current events. One individual has researched roads, bridges, and railroads for years and
                        has completed at least two National Register projects and plans a book. The county tourism director has a
                        strong interest in historical research but little time to pursue it. Still others do local research at a
                        distance: one former 
                            Seymourite
                         has digitized and made available many pictures and directory transcriptions, another living
                        in 
                            Kentucky
                         is preparing a sesquicentennial history of 
                            Crothersville
                         and 
                            Vernon
                         Township, and a third in 
                            Florida
                         has  developed an extensive website and is seeking a
                        historical marker for the Medora brick plant where one of his collateral ancestors worked. 3
                    
                    A few years ago I started the 
                            Jackson County
                         History Alliance to facilitate conversation among these diverse entities about how they might
                        help each other, avoid duplication, and perhaps promote county tourism. The initiative has pretty much
                        turned into an annual meeting and may not recover because I cannot make enough time to nurture it.
                    Many factors influence motivation for local history interest. Sometimes I believe people want to talk about
                        what they believe came before, because of what they then infer about themselves-but they
                        do not want the facts to get in the way of a good story or their self-image. More than half the adults in 
                            Jackson County
                         have "significant problems with reading"-the county maintains high dropout rates,
                        low interest in higher education, rapidly increasing populations of non-English speakers, leading numbers
                        of methamphetamine labs, and a lack of public transportation. These conditions may explain why oral
                        history is popular, why only three youngsters signed up for a beginning genealogy class, and why a
                        Leadership 
                            Jackson County
                         group (most of them 30-something) did not want to look beyond a few secondary sources to
                        prepare a binder of local history handouts for fourth-grade teachers to use in their classrooms. Perhaps I
                        do not understand the motivation of those who say they are interested. Maybe the challenge lies in better
                        informing potential audience members of the programs and their relevance.
                    Visitors from outside the county come because they have heard about a "longest" bridge, a
                        "scenic" mill, or a quaint chapel. They want to see where historic events occurred, even though
                        most traces of the prehistoric mound, the Indian raid, or the old farmhouse may be gone. Perhaps they seek
                        what photographer John Bower calls the "lingering spirit."4 They also want
                        "the facts" about the man hired to plant great-great-grandfather's orchard or about the 
                            Grassy Fork
                         boy who became a TWA founder and FDR's pilot on the precursor of Air Force One. They
                        come curious to explore whether their "real" father may have been the founder of a local
                        industry, intrigued to learn that Pee Wee Reese played a summer of baseball in 
                            Seymour
                        , and interested to know that President 
                            
                                3 The Medora Brick Plant Site can be accessed at
                                http://www.medorabrickplant.org/. 
                            
                                4 John Bower, Lingering Spirit: A Photographic Tribute to
                                    Indian's Fading, Forlorn, and Forgotten Places (
                                    Bloomington
                                , 
                                    Ind.
                                , 2003). 
                        
                         Eisenhower's funeral train stopped in 
                            Brownstown
                         so Julie Nixon Eisenhower could get something for her headache and make a phone call.
                        (Contrary to popular legend the Secret Service agent from 
                            Brownstown
                         did not stop to say "hello" to his parents-he was not on the train.) Visitors look
                        for facts (or even stories) about "things of interest," known only to them and the select few
                        who have pursued them. Genealogy is also somewhat of a motivating factor for some, but I always try to
                        help people move beyond charts toward learning about the communities from which they came.
                    RIPPY: We constantly strive to draw visitors to the museum by providing unique exhibits and open houses and
                        by being involved in various community projects. We are like many other local museums that receive more
                        visitors from outside the county than from within. Our three-story facility houses exhibits on two floors
                        and a research library on the third. Researchers on their way to the library pass through the exhibits.5
                    
                    Visitors of all ages come into the museum for many reasons. Children like the hands-on room, where they can
                        touch items and entertain themselves while parents look at other exhibits. Period room settings depict how
                        people lived and help children relate the past to their lives today. We also introduce children to the
                        library by showing them maps of where they live and helping them read old newspapers on microfilm.
                        Children often bring their parents to the museum after we have done a school tour. Of course, like many
                        other counties, our shrinking school budgets have reduced field trips. Because of today's rapid
                        changing technology, the teenagers are drawn to the "ancient" Atari Games. They seem interested
                        in Native American stories or anything about which they can say I had one of those."
                    Genealogy produces about 70 percent of the business we do at the museum, and its popularity is growing. As
                        a rule, the retired generation has the time and interest in researching history. More women do research
                        but we are seeing an increase of men wanting to know more about their ancestors. Anytime a person can talk
                        about their family or homestead to someone else, they get excited. Someone is always on hand to guide
                        people toward their family treasures, which explains why so many researchers return. The more they find
                        the more they become hooked on continuing the hunt. Other people are motivated by the history of their
                        home-I think they hope to find skeletons in the closet.
                    
                        
                            5 Visit the museum online at http://www.mchistoricalsocietyorg. 
                    
                    
                    Attendees at PowerPoint presentations range in age from 25 to 90. A volunteer and I dress in 1915-era
                        costumes while presenting programs about the county's history and mixing present names into past
                        gossip. The presentation about the 1940s goes over most successfully with the 60- to 90-year-old groups,
                        although the younger people are making connections to this time period. Anytime we offer free refreshments
                        we can count on a good turnout.
                
                
                     DEFINING LOCAL HISTORY 
                    IMH: Charlotte mentions a "passion" for nearby history Linda enjoys helping children
                        "connect" to their "own backyards," and Joe likes being "near the primary
                        sources," yet you all also note that people will travel great distances to participate. So, how would
                        you define "local history"?
                    SKVARENINA: Is this a trick question? I do not know if I can define local history. When I am in 
                            Hancock County
                        , its history is local history. When I am back in my hometown of 
                            Canton
                        , 
                            Stark County
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , its history is local history. If I feel interested in some site or event, then its history
                        becomes local history. Geography, social attachments, hometown, childhood, and religion determine
                        one's individual viewpoint, historical vantage point, and standard of significance. If you live in
                        the middle of a major Civil War battlefield, that is local history If you are the child of the president
                        of the 
                            United States
                        , the White House might be local history to you. I am sometimes amazed, however, at what will
                        interest people-some folks want to visit a doll museum, so I guess nothing is too small.
                    SELLERS: For me, local history explores how individuals and communities within a limited geographical area
                        came to be where and as they are, how they created or responded to events at any given time, how much
                        influence outside events had on them, and possibly how the local actions or reactions differed from those
                        of other localities that appear similar. Local history necessarily is somewhat geographically designated
                        for the "local" historian, although "local" does not necessarily stop at politically
                        or socially drawn boundaries as the historian pursues knowledge of particular individuals, communities and
                        events. Whether something is too big or too small only comes into play, I think, when the historian begins
                        to select facts to illustrate the history being pursued.
                    RIPPY: My take on local history is anything that gives me a connection to my past and present surroundings.
                        My husband-who inhales every piece of history he can get his hands on-said that local history means  Native Americans, architecture, folklore, ghost stories, and
                        photographs. He is less interested in the individual and more interested in what surrounds people and what
                        they pass on to one another. My 16-year-old grandson said history is what happened in his town and state,
                        while a volunteer at the museum described it as a background of what we are today. The head of our
                        research library views local history as a record of how and why some areas grew and progressed, while
                        others simply faded.
                    IMH: We often read in the news about "history wars" concerning museum exhibits or school
                        curricula. Have you experienced similar public reactions to local history? Are some topics off limits?
                    SELLERS: When I do local history programs, I don't bring up ChemScam from the 1980s (when local
                        government official were indicted-and some convicted-of taking bribes from chemical salesmen), recent meth
                        labs, or 20-year-old unsolved homicides-although now that I think about it, why not! Something on a
                        controversial mayor (now deceased) who defied law and reason a few times and eventually went to prison
                        because he would not say he was sorry? Probably depends on whether he has relatives who would object.
                        We're getting ready to do a program on 
                            Seymour
                         Recycling, one of the first two Superfund sites to draw national attention in the 1980s. How
                        much will we say about its being spun off from one of the oldest industries in town?
                    Some locals dislike any mention of the Reno Gang from the 1860s, while others say they are a part of the
                        history and cannot be ignored. A program on the Reno Gang drew a "good" crowd but covered only
                        the basic narrative-they robbed trains and courthouses, terrorized the countryside, fled to
                                Canada, were pursued by
                        Allen Pinkerton, and eventually were lynched by local vigilantes. True research into the outlaw gang has
                        not been done. I would like to see at least as much work go into finding out who the vigilantes were (a
                        list has never surfaced) and how the Renos managed to take over the towns of 
                            Rockford
                         and 
                            Seymour
                         as has been squandered in trying to find the $46,000 to $160,000 the gang supposedly left
                        buried.
                    The Reno controversy does not affect locals nearly as much as family history (except when it is family
                        history). Those researching families who came from 
                            North Carolina
                         nearly 200 years ago somewhat resent the local cultural emphasis on the heritage of Germans,
                        who did not arrive until the mid-1850s. Most of the German culture exists in 
                            Seymour
                         and most of the 
                            North Carolinians
                         live in the western part of  the county, which helps
                        provoke the cross-county rivalry mentioned earlier.
                    Apathy is also a challenge. Programs on sports, trees and forest industries, African Americans, the
                        Underground Railroad, and community firefighting have been poorly attended. No interest was expressed in
                        talking with a representative of the 
                            Indiana
                         Historical Society about good practices for the conservation of historical objects and
                        documents. Most topics, I believe, can be handled in a manner to avoid polarity if participants are
                        willing to look at the material objectively. Recent programs on local railroad history and on what can be
                        found from an hour of research drew the largest groups the library has had in years. They were marketed as
                        roundtables, so perhaps the emphasis on group participation sparked the sudden interest.
                    SKVARENINA: The Ku Klux Klan is certainly a controversial issue. In the early 1920s local preachers held
                        massive Klan rallies in which they encouraged their congregations to participate in the Klan. According to
                        local sources, one such rally at the fairgrounds drew 10,000, but today no one in 
                            Hancock County
                         has grandparents or family members who were part of the Klan. You know you hit a nerve when
                        someone gets quiet. Old timers don't talk about the Klan, but new people in the community seem to
                        bring up the issue. Old timers are similarly silent about the character of revered Hoosier poet James
                        Whitcomb Riley, preferring to ignore his drinking and womanizing. You want to make Old 
                            Greenfield
                         mad, just bring up those stories.
                    The history wars in 
                            Hancock County
                         have included major battles over building preservation and restoration. A few years ago a
                        local bank was going to sell its prime downtown courthouse corner to the county to be torn down for the
                        location of a new courthouse annex. I wrote an editorial about the architectural significance of the
                        structure and the rest of the historical community got on the bandwagon and got the project stopped. I
                        could tell one story after another like this one, but to the county's credit the courthouse was
                        recently restored. I had a difficult time convincing Historic Landmarks of 
                            Indiana
                         to help on the Courthouse Square problem, but they eventually got on board and took over the
                        issue. I will never forget speaking with their representative, who asked me, "What do you want me to
                        do about it?" Sometimes I feel like I am in a war but I don't know who the enemy is.
                    RIPPY: When patrons researching our museum's library find a "skeleton in the closet," some
                        are embarrassed by what they find. We tell them skeletons are good: If we were all perfect people, who
                        would want to  write about us for our next generation? We all made
                        mistakes: Native Americans were driven from their land in the 1830s and in the 1960s African American
                        travelers were turned away at motels and restaurants. I have no problem in passing on our attitudes about
                        others, and I continue to pass those stories on to the youth who visit the museum. That being said, there
                        are ways to discuss our previous attitudes without being offensive to the audience.
                    It is very interesting that senior citizens will not talk about the Klan in 
                            Marshall County
                         -the Klan paraded through the park and heaven forbid that anyone knows anything! My
                        observation on this is that they are too close to the friends and relatives who participated, and they
                        were trained to keep this quiet. The younger generation is curious about the Klan, Native Americans, and
                        African Americans, and they are open to discussion. Last year, in a 60-minute presentation to 30- to 40-
                        year-old adults, I spoke for two minutes about Indian displacement and one person wrote on the evaluation
                        form: "I'm tired of hearing about that." That is the only negative comment I have heard in
                        fifteen years of work with the museum. We still have to educate a few people out there.
                    Right now the county has a large influx of Hispanics and we have formed organizations to work with them.
                        The school has worked hard to help blend them into the society without sacrificing their heritage. This is
                        an example of how we are working together and learning from our past mistakes.
                    Finally, some recent topics are off-limits because they may open a wound or because relatives still live in
                        town. An example is our upcoming cemetery tour, in which a group of people portray the lives of people who
                        have died over 50 years ago and have an interesting story to tell. We try to avoid recent politics, but
                        the earlier politics are great, especially when our two newspapers, The Republican and
                            The Democrat, competed with each other. Perhaps we mellow with age?
                    IMH: What makes the difference in community support of local history? Why do some communities value their
                        history-even flaunt it and exploit it-while others neglect and destroy it?
                    SKVARENINA: The answer is politics and what the politician perceives as the amount of destruction the
                        community will accept. Some communities do fine while others seem to demolish the past swiftly. It is the
                        job of the historian to join the fray and fight the good fight on this one. Retreat, and it will be hard
                        to rebuild. Sole gratia.
                    
                    SELLERS: Persuasive leadership no doubt is the key to creating demand for the conservation of history and
                        its artifacts-but from where can such leadership originate? Funding also plays a major role. But at the
                        purely local level (and maybe to a lesser degree at the academic or professional level), projects often
                        seem to end in acrimonious polarization that leaves the intended conservation at best less than it could
                        have been and at worst thoroughly undone. Woe to communities without the persuasive leadership and/or the
                        political clout to champion the importance of finding, conserving, interpreting, and teaching our
                        history.
                    Before I became the 
                            Jackson County
                         historian, I always wondered why previous county historians had not done more or at least had
                        not done things differently. Now I understand how much work and how little help exists. And while I
                        understand why those at more professional levels of "historicity" may not want to
                        "interfere in" local history situations (I tend to think of it more as "counsel"),
                        sometimes it might be good for the community to have the perspective of those who, at least in my eyes,
                        have not only greater knowledge but greater credibility.
                
                
                     CHALLENGES AND CONSTRAINTS 
                    IMH: Let's talk about the logistical challenges you face.
                    RIPPY: As with any not-for-profit agency, money is always an issue. The 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society currently seeks to expand its museum, raising money from grants, society
                        members, businesses, organizations, and the general public. The key is to fit the need to the donor and do
                        a lot of PR work. For example, when I go to the Kiwanis Club for money, I emphasize how it will help the
                        youth, an important concern for them. Most of our local history activities are not major projects and are
                        paid for by the society or by smaller donations. Our publications are paid for by membership dues.
                    SELLERS: As county historian, most materials-including photocopies, equipment, mileage, business cards, and
                        refreshments-are provided by me. Occasionally scholarships are available for conferences. The
                        organizations with which I am involved fund their activities by a variety of taxes, grants, dues,
                        donations of time and money, and fundraisers including sale of history-related publications and items.
                        Concerns over mortgage payments, maintenance, and utilities make budgeting a necessity, and when ignored
                        they lead to stagnation and lack of initiative.
                    Accountability also proves challenging. Some laws require accountability for both tax and not-for-profit
                        funds, and grants and  organizational charters impose other
                        requirements. However, grant makers often seem to ask for little acknowledgment, much less accountability.
                        Some organizations file annual reports and perform internal audits, while others do not. Accountability
                        for artifacts and documents should be covered by law but only seems to be investigated or prosecuted in
                        extreme cases. Hundreds of items disappear over the years.
                    SKVARENINA: The most common legal issue we face seems to center around the private material "on
                        loan" to the museums. I have seen relatives want to come back as much as 30 years later seeking to
                        reclaim the items.
                    RIPPY: We face the legal issue of split-ownership and operation-the county owns our building and the
                        society owns the artifacts and operates the museum and library. Thus, we have to make sure that the museum
                        and historical society operate separately and keep that in mind when applying for grants so that we can
                        maintain the 501(c)3 status with the government. As with any historical society it is legally important to
                        have a board of trustees, statement of purpose, and bylaws. Having an attorney and a CPA on the board is
                        to our advantage. Paper trails follow everything that is donated to the museum.
                    SELLERS: Physical space is always a problem. What to collect, what to send to another home, and what to
                        decline-these questions must be decided continually or space fills up rapidly I have yet to see a local
                        organization other than a public library have a written collection policy. (I personally have a sort of
                        unwritten collection policy as county historian, but it has not stopped my rooms from being stuffed with
                        papers, filing cabinets, and projects.)
                    SKVARENINA: After much work, the Hancock County Historical Society now has an acquisition/disquisition
                        policy, and I am starting the same effort with the 
                            Shirley
                         organization. It is a chronic problem in both settings since each owns a building.
                    RIPPY: I think we are like many small county museums whose collection has grown over the years but has not
                        been properly preserved, due partly to lack of help and to lack of awareness of newer conservation
                        materials. Fourteen years ago, everything resided in either a plastic dry cleaning bag or in high acid
                        cardboard boxes Over the years, we have been fortunate to replace all the damaging storage materials with
                        conservation supplies. Expensive, yes, but worth every penny!
                    We seem never to have enough staffing. We rely on over 30 volunteers-they are great and we could not
                        operate without them. That being said, they are volunteers-usually retired, part-time workers who want  to give something back to the community when it is convenient for
                        them. Their talents are often limited, by health or by preference. Since the museum is a county building,
                        a paid staff member remains on duty at all times that the facility is open.
                    SELLERS: The small organizations in 
                            Jackson County
                         have no paid staff, which means that they open on a limited basis when particular volunteers
                        can be present-admittance to one of the best in the county comes only by asking at the nearby post office
                        for the curator to be called; I encountered a couple who had been dropping by on vacations for ten years
                        without success. Another concern lies in finding people willing to take the time to learn and practice
                        adequate standards for local history. Advertising available workshops or programs-even offering
                        transportation-seldom generates a strong response. Exhibits and newsletters often are weak, boring, and
                        out of date; programming is avoided and seldom given adequate publicity. Knowledgeable visitors are
                        alarmed to see a cup hook screwed into the back of an artifact on display, a document continually exposed
                        to light that will destroy it over time, or an unwillingness to welcome and use the talents of new members
                        and to provide programs that entice them to return.
                    IMH: Do you collaborate with other historians or institutions outside of your own county?
                    SKVARENINA: Not wanting to paint with too broad a brush, I believe that academic historians do at times
                        look down on the local practitioner, whether out of simple "degree snobbery" or out of distain
                        for the interests of the masses. I write history because I am interested in a topic, because I want to
                        gain knowledge or to discover something, and not because I want to prove anything. My dad never finished
                        high school, but he was a serious historian, and his walking me through the fields looking for arrowheads
                        began the passion of my lifetime. Every time I think I will stop writing, new projects come up until I
                        have a list a mile long. I meet so many interesting people in the study of history and they bring so much
                        to the table. Let the public historian take note!
                    As for working with other organizations, the Riley Old Home Society did receive a grant with the IUPUI
                        libraries to digitize the collections, but the collections are still a mess. The 
                            Hancock County
                         society has been attempting to create an inventory for years, but the manual system
                        progresses slowly.
                    SELLERS: A few years ago a "partnership" of five organizations was concocted to digitize local
                        photographs and other material in 
                            Jackson
                        
                         County. In theory, temporary employees would solicit photographs and
                        scan them into a collection for the county but in practice the employees proved inexperienced in scanning,
                        recording information, following up, and spelling. As a result, much of the material that was shared did
                        not get recorded properly.
                    My experience with "outsiders" has been that the more competent and learned a person-no matter
                        the field-the more willing he or she is to share and encourage the efforts of others. Of course exceptions
                        exist-among both academic and local historians-but I have learned what little I know about
                        "doing" history by attending a variety of history-related conferences where university
                        professors and others take time to teach what they know. Such exchanges succeed where both parties share
                        interests, standards, respect, and knowledge.
                    RIPPY: Because of staff and funding shortages, digitization is not an option in 
                            Marshall County
                        . We would love to offer more programs but have had to prioritize to concentrate on exhibits,
                        conservation, membership, expansion, collection management (long-term project), and convincing the public
                        that this is not just an "attic full of old stuff" but an exciting and vibrant museum.
                
                
                     THE VALUE OF LOCAL HISTORY 
                    IMH: Let's end with the big questions: What purposes can local history serve? What role can local
                        history play in the community? What is the value of local history?
                    SELLERS: A purpose beyond serving as an excuse for falling behind on home chores? What a neat idea! While
                        lofty reasons can be given for pursuing local history, I see it mainly as an attempt to satisfy personal
                        curiosity about specific individuals, events, and localities and their relationships, interactions, and
                        peculiarities. As we learn more about the histories of our community's government, agriculture,
                        business, education, entertainment, crime, public welfare, religion, architecture, and environment, our
                        personal perspectives may broaden or even change. To an extent we "interpret" what we learn but
                        probably not in the objective sense of interpretation for a larger purpose that a professional historian
                        pursues. Seldom in my experience has local history moved beyond the superficial to explore how the
                        community of business or family relates to similar (or dissimilar) nearby or national events. Perhaps the
                        best for which we can hope is that some of the artifacts, structures, records, and stories-both written
                        and oral-will endure to be pursued and  appreciated on an individual
                        basis. If local history is accessible, examined, understood, and integrated into a more coherent mosaic,
                        it might show the character of those who came before, what they might or might not have known, how they
                        did things, how their actions influenced others, and how those actions and reactions might provide
                        knowledge useful for current and future situations. How many communities have or want such a mosaic?
                    SKVARENINA: To me, local history is the great equalizer. Being closer to the soil, it constitutes the best
                        place to locate primary sources, the easiest place to establish a reference point to the major happenings
                        of society, and a good place to recognize trends and the influence environment might have on that very
                        history. Its cast of characters is morefamiliar and it brings all of us closer to the actual happening.
                        And everyone has an opinion on what happened locally!
                    Local history can confirm community lore and legends. It can tell us why a community has certain attitudes,
                        why it developed as it did, and why it has certain physical characteristics. It can explain industrial or
                        agricultural patterns and tell you about your grandparents. The value of local history lies in its ability
                        to establish a set of roots. It enables some communities to learn from their past.
                    RIPPY: I know of no other subject more interesting and exciting than local history. Understanding the place
                        of our community in the state, the nation, and the world brings people together. Local history begins with
                        the individual and expands outward to include all around us. Nothing fosters conversation like discussing
                        what happened yesterday, last week, or 100 years ago. Local history defies age boundaries. Sit four
                        generations together and bring out the photographs, traditions, and stories and you will see a sparkling
                        conversation about mistakes made, lessons learned, and perspectives gained-and the children will be
                        captivated. Local history unites friend and neighbor, past and present. It provides a fuzz, warm feeling
                        when shared and leaves us "thirsty" for more information. We all learn from one another. 
                
                
                     PUBLIC RESPONSE: INVOLVING SCHOOLS AND SAVING RECORDS 
                    At a public session held during the February 2007 
                            Indiana
                         Association of Historians conference, Charlotte Sellers and Joseph Skvarenina introduced
                        their favorite themes and questions from this conversation to an audience of over thirty interested
                        individuals. 
                            Marion
                        
                         County historian David Vanderstel offered his reactions, and 
                            Indiana
                         University history professor James H. Madison facilitated a discussion among all in
                        attendance.
                    No topic prompted more discussion than that of involving local schools in local history. During the
                        conversation, two philosophies emerged for helping students (and teachers) see that "history happened
                        here": one to demonstrate the impact of national events and policies on local circumstances, and
                        another to induce from the local to the national.
                    
                        
                            Indiana
                         history is taught in fourth grade, but several participants emphasized the need to connect
                        local history to the national events discussed in other grades as well. For example, students might
                        interview community residents who participated in the civil rights movement or the Vietnam War. In 
                            Evansville
                        , students in an elective course prepare documentaries that air on the local television
                        station. 6 Participants also recommended leveraging repeated events-such as national
                        history day or black history month-as well as several upcoming celebrations, including the
                        sesquicentennial of the Civil War (2011-2015), the bicentennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth (2009),
                        the War of 1812 (2012-2014), 
                            Indiana
                         statehood (2016), and the centennial of World War I (2017-2018).7
                    
                    Participants also discussed how to find teachers willing to integrate local history, noting that printed
                        publicity, word-of-mouth, and emails to school administrators did not usually bring results. The most
                        successful method has been to contact good teachers directly, whether they teach in social studies or in
                        writing, science, art, or building trades. Additionally, several sources offer grant money that can be
                        used in local history work: the federal Teaching American History initiative, the Gilder Lehrman
                        Institute's "Preserve 
                            America
                         " award, the 
                            Indiana
                         Humanities Council, and the 
                            Indiana
                         Council for History Education's Governor's Award. Summer training institutes for
                        teachers are offered by the History Educator's Networkof 
                            Indiana
                         and Historic Southern 
                            Indiana
                        .
                    All present recognized that teachers are very busy and that the integration of local history should be
                        presented not as "adding to the 
                            
                                6 For information on this project led by Jon Carl at J. Reitz High School and
                                Helfrich Park Middle School in 
                                    Evansville
                                 visit http://www.feelthehistory.com. 
                            
                                7 In 
                                    Indiana
                                 a task force and state commission are working to commemorate the Lincoln
                                bicentennial, http://www.indianaslincoln.org. 
                        
                         plate" but as "fitting with current responsibilities."
                        Suggestions ranged from providing source materials for teacher use to preparing lesson plans.8 In every case, the assistance should be keyed to the state standards that dominate
                        school planning.9
                    
                    Several participants noted that members of the community frequently request information, quilts, and tours
                        relative to the Underground Railroad, yet solid connections cannot always be documented in local sources.
                        The 
                            Indiana
                         Department of Natural Resources offers some assistance.10
                    
                    The logistics of record preservation generated many questions from participants at the IAH session. Every
                        local historian seems to have a story about neglected records in a damp basement. What does one do when
                        space runs out and no other repository demonstrates interest in the records? How can local historians
                        champion local record preservation? What to do when a hired consultant recommends jettisoning published
                        sources available via interlibrary loan? The 
                            Indiana
                         State Library is beginning a federally funded statewide digitization project called " 
                            Indiana
                         Memory." The National Endowment for the Humanities offers applicable grants under its
                        "access and records" category. Other grants are listed in the 
                            Indiana
                         Historical Society's online publication, Communique.
                    
                        
                            8 For lesson plans incorporating 
                                Indiana
                             history see the websites of the 
                                Indiana
                             Historical Bureau (http://www.statelib.lib.in.us/www/ihb/resources/index.html), the 
                                Indiana
                             Humanities Council (http://www.indianahumanities.org/smartdesktop/index.html), and the
                            IMH (http://wwwindiana.edu/~imaghist/for_teachers/index.html). 
                        
                            9 School standards may be found at
                            http://www.doe.state.in.us/standards/welcome.html. 
                        
                            10 See http://www.in.gov/dnr/historic/ugrr.html. 
                    
                
            
            
                 Observing Local History in 
                        Indiana
                    
                    Responses by Rebecca Conard, Jannelle Warren-Findley, and David Glassberg 
                none
                
                
                     LOCAL HISTORY AND CONTEMPORARY RELEVANCE 
                    By Rebecca Conard
                    Trying to get a handle on the wide-ranging thoughts and concerns expressed by Linda Rippy, Charlotte
                        Sellers, and Joe Skvarenina in response to Keith Erekson's probing questions, I felt compelled to
                        pick up the local newspaper. In this instance, it happened to be the weekly paper published in the small
                        midwestern town where I grew up, and where my parents still reside. The front page carried a photo essay
                        about an Arbor Day tree-planting in memory of one of my former classmates. It reminded me that my
                        hometown, like thousands of communities across the country, has a long tradition of remembering the
                        departed with memorial gardens, parks, groves, and forests. It also reminded me that civic groups, often
                        established by women, typically spearhead such caretaking efforts, and have for generations. And it
                        reminded me that, in the1920s and 1930s, a group of local citizens in this community 
                             Rebecca Conard is professor and former director of public history at Middle 
                                    Tennessee
                                 State University, 
                                    Murfreesboro
                                , 
                                    Tennessee
                                , and a past president of the NationalCouncil on Public History. Her major
                                publications include Benjamin Shambaugh and the Intellectual Foundations of Public
                                    History  (2002), and she is currently working on a critical examination of public history
                                practice. 
                        
                         worked with the state board of conservation to turn an adjacent
                        natural lake into a state park bordered by campgrounds, fish-rearing ponds, a reforested
                        "natural" area,and a new city park. Other local citizens provided technical assistance or labor
                        for this effort courtesy of New Deal work relief programs.
                    Today, residents and out-of-towners routinely use the state park for outdoor recreation and the city park
                        for family gatherings and community celebrations. The recent tree-planting ceremony took place in the city
                        park Many older residents know bits and pieces of this history, but few understand the ways in which the
                        development of our local park and outdoor recreation system is woven into the fabric of state and national
                        history. The young teens who buzz along recreational trails on their motorbikes probably have not found
                        the bronze plaque, reading "George Washington Memorial Forest," that was placed there by the
                        Iowa Daughters of the American Revolution in 1932.
                    The local historical society has never developed an exhibit, published an interpretive brochure, or
                        otherwise interpreted the history of the lake parks and recreation areas that give this community its
                        distinctive identity, even though the historical museum sits across the street from a campground filled
                        from May through September with visitors and even though hundreds of historical photographs reside in
                        local newspaper files, private collections, and the historical society's own collections. Instead,
                        the museum displays typical items donated by pioneer and prominent families and operates an ongoing
                        rummage sale in the basement to augment its meager budget.
                    Rippy, Sellers, and Skvarenina identify a long list of what would seem to be endemic challenges and
                        constraints in the practice of local history. Like many local museums, the one in my hometown employs no
                        paid staff, has few actual members, does not interpret its collections, avoids programming, and relies on
                        free publicity through the local newspaper. From the outside, it appears to be stagnant, yet the members
                        currently have their hands full working on a newspaper preservation project in collaboration with the
                        state historical society Not only is this important work, but it is also the kind of effort that
                        volunteers can fit into busy personal schedules, that requires more care than skill or training, and that
                        provides a social outlet. The latter is both an asset and a liability because the social aspect of local
                        historical work all too often becomes insular and exclusionary. To paraphrase Sellers, there is so much
                        work and so little help that loyal volunteers become vested in the enterprise to the point where it is
                        difficult for newcomers to break in.  Moreover, assistance or
                        "counsel" from outside professionals, however much needed, can be threatening: among other
                        things, it reinforces the obvious-there are too few people to do so much work-but also because outsiders,
                        however knowledgeable and well-meaning, do not always take the time to understand or appreciate the
                        challenges and constraints under which local historical organizations operate.
                    The front page of my hometown newspaper also included a lengthy interview with the school superintendent on
                        the pending school consolidation. This event bears important consequences not just for students but for
                        residents of four towns as well as the farms and rural acreages that surround them. How will it affect
                        property taxes? Will consolidation save money? Will any administrators or teachers lose their jobs? Will
                        the curriculum improve? Will extracurricular activities expand? Where will athletic events take place? How
                        will the school board be configured and when will elections take place? This is the third school
                        consolidation my hometown has experienced since 1960, having been preceded by a succession of country
                        school closings as farm owners opted to send their kids to town schools.
                    Because school consolidation has been a recurring fact of life in many rural areas for the last
                        half-century, these episodes have not quite been consigned to history. More to the point, school
                        consolidation continues to manifest the slow and disquieting process of rural depopulation and ultimately
                        links to profound changes in the nation's agricultural economy over which local communities have
                        little or no control. This part of the recent past intertwines with decades of individual farm sales and
                        foreclosures, downtown business closings, friends moved away, and fewer jobs requiring a collegedegree.
                        This local history remains off-limits not because it is controversial, but because its complexity is so
                        extreme that any meaningful telling is hard to imagine in the formats typically used to interpret local
                        history and because its poignancy is so great that any such telling would likely evoke many painful or at
                        least bittersweet memories.
                    As astute museum directors know, making connections between people's lives and the past is key to a
                        successful exhibit or public program, yet in this instance-and there are many such instances throughout
                        small-town 
                            America
                         -local residents by and large do not need or want to be reminded that the history of rural
                        depopulation has contemporary relevance to their own lives and livelihoods. Still, this community
                        applauded the moving of an extant country schoolhouse onto the museum grounds. By and large, it
                        memorializes a past from which the  living are unchained. The chasm
                        that exists between the past represented by that white clapboard, one-room schoolhouse and the past
                        implicated by school consolidation number three is filled with an immense silence.
                    In some respects, my hometown historical society is less active than many I have encountered during a
                        public history career that now spans four decades, but overall it falls within the range of normal. Carol
                        Kammen writes that "local history has too many community implications to be regarded simply as
                        something to do on a rainy Tuesday night."1 Her statement gets to the heart of
                        the matter. The stuff of local history is endlessly fascinating, yet so hard to interpret because it is
                        impossible to separate social and cultural aspects from political and economic ones. Meaningful local
                        history is hard to parse. Moreover, local history always rubs against personal memory. Sellers points to
                        the need, in her county, to be sensitive to long-standing cultural rivalries among descendants of early
                        families. Skvarenina and Rippy observe that age of audience is an important factor in determining what
                        topics are likely to be controversial. Both note that the Ku Klux Klan is still living memory, not
                        history, for elders who may have witnessed or even participated in Klan activities, or knew others who
                        did.
                    Making connections is what local history is all about. One frequent approach to interpreting local history
                        attempts the connection by fitting a local story into a broad historical theme or topic. Curriculum
                        standards for history and social studies, outreach initiatives of state humanities councils, and the
                        Smithsonian's Museums on Main Street program encourage, even aid, this approach a aa way to make
                        local history more meaningful, i.e., connected to state and national history. Another approach, the one
                        addressed in response to Erekson's question about off-limits history, is to find topics that are
                        interesting and lively but either avoid controversy altogether or can be manipulated to avoid offending
                        certain segments of the community. Both approaches have legitimacy and value, but the former can take on a
                        formulaic quality and the latter often means avoiding topics that resonate with contemporary issues.
                        Making meaningful connections is not easy, especially considering that the audiences for local history are
                        both small and surprisingly 
                            
                                1 Carol Kammen, "Local History-In Search of CommonThreads" in
                                Kammen, ed., The Pursuit of Local History: Readings on Theory and Practice (
                                    Walnut Creek
                                , 
                                    Calif.
                                , 1996), 12. 
                        
                         diverse. Sellers admits that defining her audience "has been
                        hard" because "many factors influence motivation for local history interest." Some people
                        like to "do" historical research on family history or topics of idiosyncratic interest. Others
                        prefer to "consume" local historical flavor, and a few come seeking to learn more about the
                        history of their community.
                    I turned to the local paper not merely out of idle curiosity but to see just what events and topics were
                        considered newsworthy in one locale and, moreover, to see if I could make historical connections pertinent
                        to these present-day concerns. In other words, I turned the relevancy question around. The connections
                        came to mind rather quickly, but, of course, it would be quite another thing to make these connections
                        interesting or meaningful to a local history audience. It might be relatively easy to develop interpretive
                        materials explaining the evolution of the state and city park system, which creates a distinctive sense of
                        place for the local community. This is upbeat history with a rich photographic record, and residents of
                        all ages could easily be persuaded to share personal stories that capture the human element. However, the
                        history of local schools and school consolidation would be a mighty challenge, and might ultimately be
                        off-limits because, in essence, it carries too much meaning.
                    The collective quality and quantity of personal meaning vested in the past are, I think, the"community
                        implications of local history" to which Kammen calls our attention. For this reason, local history is
                        inherently difficult history. Thus, the tendency is to step away from making local history too meaningful.
                        Sellers admits that "seldom in her] experience has local history moved beyond the superficial to
                        explore how the community ... relates to similar (or dissimilar) nearby or national events. Perhaps the
                        best for which we can hope," she offers, "is that some of the artifacts, structures, records,
                        and stories ... will endure to be pursued and appreciated on an individual basis." Rippy expresses a
                        similar point of view about the value of local history for plaiing individuals in the stream of time She
                        also cites local history's propensity for uniting "friend and neighbor, past and present,"
                        as does Skvarenina when he states that "the value of local history lies in its ability to establish a
                        set of roots" for community members. Perhaps this is enough. But I continue to wonder about the power
                        of local history to connect the past with the present in ways that move us beyond thoughtful, individual
                        reflection to stimulate civic discourse and even, maybe, more civic engagement in community affairs.
                
                
                
                     ROOTS AND ROOTLESSNESSS 
                    By Jannelle Warren-Findley
                    My grandparents arrived in 
                            Arizona
                         before statehood (1912) and I grew up here, as did my father. Yet people continually tell me
                        that there are no "roots" here. They speak of themselves-I have roots here.
                    So for me, local history is very place-based. I drive past intersections whose streets are as familiar to
                        me as my own name, but I recognize nothing else there because everything I knew has been torn down and
                        replaced. I often feel that if you could peel back this version, there would be a full-scale model of that
                        intersection that I would recognize instantly hidden just below. But then, of course, there would be
                        another and another, until you peeled down to the 
                            Hohokam
                         in 1100 AD, and perhaps layers below that.
                    I wish that we could figure out a way to interest the thousands of newcomers to Arizona in the history that
                        took place here. Newcomers are interested in past times, but their allegiance to cowboys
                        and the Old West and vanishing natives is extremely hard to shake. The more ordinary stories, however
                        heroic or shocking they may be (the Klan beating up a Mormon, for example), are often complex or
                        open-ended or end badly. They're not like a John Ford film or a Wild West presentation. The urge for
                        history to be something other than what it is gets so bizarre here that we just saw a local Native
                        American tribe buy a failing Wild West show and move it to the reservation, where it has proven extremely
                        popular with tourists. Nobody wanted to touch the question of who shoots whom in these new circumstances,
                        however.
                    I guess, in sum, that the people who move to where I live are the people who might be more interested in
                        the history of their towns in 
                            Indiana
                         than in the history of 
                            Arizona
                        . But that doesn't do any good for the historians in 
                            Indiana
                         because those people are here, not there. The hooks that might be used with them-family
                        history or place history or community history-don't exist when they move someplace like this. So they
                        say there are no "roots" here. Do you suppose that's what they like about it? As if they
                        were expatriates, avoiding local history in order to free themselves to new experiences or new places or
                        from family ties? I wish we had a way to ask those questions, because we might then have a 
                             Jannelle Warren-Findley is a public historian and associate professor of history at 
                                    Arizona
                                 State University. 
                        
                         clearer notion of how to approach those audiences that would respond
                        to and appreciate the reinforcement of local histories and their own roots-and we might stop the
                        frustration of attempting to reach those who really don't want to pay attention to history.
                
                
                     SUSTAINING LOCAL HISTORY 
                    By David Glassber
                    The practice of local history in 
                            Indiana
                         is thriving, but with enormous effort. Linda Lou Rippy, Joe Skvarenina, and Charlotte Sellers
                        serve their respective communities in multiple roles. They write church histories, family histories, and
                        genealogies; they produce lecture series and commemorative events; they organize campaigns to preserve
                        historic buildings; they lead tours and prepare PowerPoint presentations on various topics for
                        schoolchildren and other groups; and they collect historical documents and artifacts related to their
                        areas of interest. Balancing this work with their day jobs (only one is a paid employee of a historical
                        society) they are astoundingly productive and resourceful. Rippy,Skvarenina, Sellers, and other local
                        historians keep history alive in their communities even as their nearly all-volunteer organizations face
                        aging membership rolls, dwindling audiences for public programs, and minimal local and state financial
                        support.
                    Given these challenges, I wonder how long their stamina will last. Will others follow in their footsteps?
                        What changes might be necessary to ensure the sustainability of the local historical enterprise?
                    These 
                            Indiana
                         historians make a great case for "hands-on," community-based history, demonstrating
                        that in the age of the Internet and virtual worlds, the appeal of the tangible and the local remains
                        strong. Genealogy can be pursued online, but there is still a need for the local genealogy room, where
                        materials can be handled and experienced in person. Although everyday life in 
                            Indiana
                         is shaped more and more by global economic and cultural forces, there remains a need, too,
                        for the kind of local context that makes the national and global comprehensible and responsive to personal
                        perspectives. Rippy, Skvarenina, and Sellers 
                             David Glassberg is professor of history at the University of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                 at 
                                    Amherst
                                . His research concerns the history of popular historical consciousness in 
                                    America
                                 as represented in politics, culture, and the environment. Among his publications are
                                    
                                    
                                        America
                                     Historical Pageantry: The Uses of Tradition in the Early Twentieth Century 
                                (1990) and Sense of History: The Place of the Past in 
                                        American
                                     Life (2001). 
                        
                         clearly understand and celebrate this civic function, even while they
                        confess to being driven largely by personal curiosity about one or another particular aspect of the
                        past.
                    Every day, local historians must strike a balance between seeking new audiences for history and not
                        alienating their old ones. This is a serious challenge. In New England, part of the appeal of joining a
                        local historical society is its social role, like a private club. Many longstanding members are reluctant
                        to socialize with anyone new. Genuine efforts to diversify membership, such as reaching out to new ethnic
                        groups in the community, can disrupt that cozy atmosphere.
                    The 
                            Indiana
                         historians must also consider local comfort levels. They confess to their reluctance to
                        explore memories of Ku Klux Klan activity or other local controversies that might disturb the older
                        members of their communities. But they observe that younger generations are curious about these topics.
                        Nurturing that curiosity involves some risk, but it is crucial to bringing new vitality to local
                        historical organizations and encouraging new members who will find relevance in local history
                        activities.
                    Another key to sustaining local involvement-made clear in these historians' comments--is the
                        willingness to work with diverse community groups. Recent immigrants eager to establish roots sometimes
                        take more interest in local history than do long-time residents who take their locale for granted.
                        Preservation concerns lead naturally to alliances with local environmental organizations, through a common
                        interest in maintaining continuity with the past while ensuring a viable future.
                    The practice of local history differs in New England and 
                            Indiana
                        . 
                            Indiana
                         residents identify more strongly with their counties, and this seems to lead to greater
                        regional cooperation and connection among them. In 
                            Massachusetts
                        , nearly everything historical happens at the town (rather than county) level, making
                        cooperation across local borders challenging. The Bay State Historical League, a 101-year-old statewide
                        organization of local historical societies, closed in 2003. While the state humanities council and the
                        University of 
                            Massachusetts
                         have assumed some of the roles formerly played by the League-such as hosting an annual
                        conference on 
                            Massachusetts
                         history- 
                            Massachusetts
                         seems to have been less successful in supporting local history than 
                            Indiana
                        , where the state university land grant tradition of cooperative extension at the county level
                        has strengthened local efforts.
                    Nevertheless, the essential tasks of local history remain constant across the nation. Local history asserts
                        claims to local distinctiveness,  promoting attachment to place and
                        curiosity about one's immediate surroundings and neighbors, as well as about one's personal and
                        family identity In an age of global electronic communication and standardized, instant architecture, at a
                        time when 
                            Americans
                         spend more time connecting with like-minded outsiders than they do with their neighbors, and
                        when towns increasingly have the same look and feel, considerations of the particular and the face-to-face
                        grow more important. For the local historical enterprise to remain vital so that future local historians
                        will continue the work of Rippy Skvarenina, and Sellers, the present generation must embrace new
                        constituencies, alliances, and topics. States must continue to assist local historians with fundraising,
                        preservation, and conservation, as well as offering intellectual support through their university systems
                        and public humanities programs. By sustaining local history, we help to sustain our local communities.
                    
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                
                    Butler University A Sesquicentennial History,By George M. Waller( 
                        Bloomington
                     : 
                        Indiana
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xvi, 506. Illustrations, appendix, select bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.) 
                Not infrequently a university, preparing to celebrate a major institutional anniversary, calls upon one of its
                    veteran historians or recently retired presidents to write an official record of its past. Such was the case
                    with this book. George Macgregor ("Mac") Waller was a much-honored (e.g., Phi Beta Kappa state
                    president, Fulbright Professor, Sagamore of the Wabash, Butler Medal recipient), and long-serving (1954-1990)
                    professor at Butler, where he specialized in colonial American history This history of Butler was his
                    retirement project, which he had essentially completed by the time of his death in 2003. His widow Martha,
                    Butler historian Paul Hanson, Butler librarian Sally Childs-Helton, and 
                        Indiana
                     University Press editor Roberta Diehl transformed and abridged the manuscript into the book. The
                    complete original manuscript, with footnotes, is available in the Special Collections of the Butler University
                    Irvin Library.
                Butler University has always been located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , albeit on three campuses (the inner-city College Avenue site, 1855-1875; the 
                        Irvington
                     campus, 1875-1928; and the current Fairview locale on the White River), has historically been associated with the Disciples of Christ
                    denomination-but never in an official manner-and has operated by its present name since 1875 (for its first
                    twenty years the institution was known as North Western Christian University). Compared to other
                    denominational liberal arts colleges of nineteenth-century origin, Butler's history has been
                    characterized by greater-than-normal levels of trustee micro-management, fraternity and sorority housing
                    arrangements (residence halls did not appear until the 1950s), early course offerings in Bib-  lical literature, and a big-time athletic program with an autonomous governance
                    structure (the latter was a major factor in the accreditation crisis of the late 1920s and early 1930s).
                Waller has written an able, definitive, and comprehensive history. But what generally is a strength at times
                    becomes a weaknessas, for example, when the author devotes twelve pages to the recommendations of a late
                    twentieth-century planning commission. His research is thorough, his prose is clear, and his treatment is
                    evenhanded-generally sympathetic although not uncritical. Heroes (among them trustee and institutional
                    namesake Ovid Butler, trustee Hilton V. Brown, and President M. O. Ross) and villains (e.g., President Walter
                    Scott Ahearn) exist but do not dominate the narrative. The author places the Butler story in the larger
                    context of the developments in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        American
                     higher education, and the Disciples of Christ denomination. Especially noteworthy is his account
                    of the defensive reaction of denomination founder Alexander Campbell (who had opened Bethany College in 
                        Virginia
                    /
                        West Virginia
                     in 1840) to the beginning of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     institution as a separate-and presumably competing-Disciples college. We also see how the 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , Disciples church (especially through the Irwin, Miller, and Sweeney families) played a large
                    role over multiple generations in financing and governing the university. Waller says little directly about
                    the declining twentieth-century influence of the Disciples in the governance of the college or about the
                    movement of the institution in a secular direction.
                For the first time in its history, Butler now possesses a fully developed published record of its past.
                    Preceding efforts of note include Thomas Fields's 1928 Butler M.A. thesis on the first two campuses, John
                    Konde-lik's 1993 University of 
                        Michigan
                     Ph.D. dissertation, "Butler University and the Dream of Distinction," and Henry K.
                    Shaw's September, 1962 
                            Indiana
                         Magazine of History article, "The Founding of Butler University,
                    1847-1855."
                WILLIAM C. RINGENBERG is professor of history at Taylor University, 
                        Upland
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and author of The Christian College: A History of Protestant Higher Education in 
                            America
                        
                     (2006).
            
            
            
                
                    The History of 
                            Michigan
                         Law,Edited by Paul Finkelman and Martin J. Hershock (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xiv, 290. Notes, list of contributors, index. $49.95.) 
                
                    The History of 
                            Michigan
                         Law is a volume in 
                        Ohio
                     University's Law, Society, and Politics in the Midwest series, which aims to illuminate some
                    of the key topics that have helped to shape the development of the law in individual states. Edited by Paul
                    Finkelman and Martin J. Hershock, the book is comprised of twelve articles on various topics written by
                    professors, lawyers, and other legal experts. Arranged chronologically by subject, the offerings trace the
                    development of 
                        Michigan
                     law from pioneer days to the early 2000s.
                Several overarching themes become evident. First, the implementation of law in territorial days and the
                    drafting of the state's early constitutions reflected the influence of settlers who came predominantly
                    from New England and 
                        New York
                    , and whose outlooks often differed substantially from those of settlers in other midwestern
                    states. These eastern values and concerns remained evident, as well, in early nineteenth-century temperance
                    and prohibition efforts and in the development of antebellum laws applied to address the rights of free
                    African Americans and to assist escaped slaves who entered the state.
                A second major element that emerges from this survey of the development of 
                        Michigan
                     law is the continued necessity of addressing conflicts between traditional values and the
                    changing conditions that came with modernization. Construction of railroads in the mid-nineteenth century
                    raised questions about private property, taxation, and eminent domain. The development of industry and the
                    exploitation of natural resources prompted other concerns, including the drive of reformers to enact and
                    enforce labor law, and the efforts of environmentalists to prevent the complete devastation of the
                    state's natural resources.
                In the twentieth century, 
                        Michigan
                     law faced many of the sae challenges that arose in other states' legal systems. Guarantees
                    of the rights of African Americans after the Civil War were not always effectively enforced. Organized
                    labor's major gains (culminating with new federal legislation in the 1930s) were hindered by back-lash
                    against new activist techniques such as the sit-down strike. In the 1960s and 1970s the 
                        Michigan
                     Women's Commission led a relatively unsuccessful campaign for equal pay, abortion rights,
                    and ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment. The increasing formalization of legal education in the
                    twentieth century sparked the establishment of numerous law schools intended to address the varying needs of
                    would-be lawyers from around the country.
                
                This volume presents an interesting and readable account of the development of some key areas of 
                        Michigan
                     law, and is particularly useful in its comparison and contrast of 
                        Michigan's
                     legal history with that of surrounding states. But further interstate comparisons would have been
                    welcome, as would a more detailed, contemporary analysis of criminal law, labor law, and civil rights
                    legislation. The extensive notes provided at the end of each chapter are particularly useful for scholars
                    interested in pursuing those topics on their own.
                REBECCA S. SHOEMAKER is professor of history at 
                        Indiana
                     State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Her most recent publications are The White Court: Justices, Rulings, Legacy
                    (2005) and chapters in The History of 
                            Indiana
                         Law (2006) and The Governors of 
                            Indiana
                        : A Biographical Directory (2006).
            
            
                
                     British BuckeyesThe English, Scots, and Welsh in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1700-1900 By William E. Van Vugt (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xiii, 295. Photographs, maps, tables,notes, bibliography,
                    index. $55.00.) 
                This interesting and informative book focuses on the role played by British settlers in the development of
                            Ohio
                    , mainly in the nineteenth century. Some individuals helped to open the area before 1800 and
                    immigration increased hugely after 1815, but the British still represented only twenty percent of foreign-born
                    immigrants in 1850 and sixteen percent in 1880. The British struggled to adjust to the unfamiliar agricultural
                    conditions they found in 
                        Ohio
                    , but by mid-century they were introducing scientific methods and improving agricultural practice.
                    Overall, they came from a broad spectrum of occupational backgrounds and possessed skills that ensured they
                    would contribute disproportionately to the industrialization of 
                        Ohio
                    , as well as enriching its educational and cultural attainments. These contributions were
                    facilitated by the similarity of their language and cultural heritage to those of most Americans, which
                    ensured that they would integrate more quickly and easily than other immigrant groups.
                Of course not all Britons were the same. The author spells out how the Welsh formed tight, inward-looking
                    communities and retained their language, religion, and distinctive cultural identity, though the picture could
                    be considerably enriched by using the many revealing letters home, written mainly in Welsh, now in the
                    National Library of 
                        Wales
                    . Similar separateness was certainly displayed by people from the Isle of Man
                     and Guernsey, but
                    other British, too, tried to maintain communal identities based on old local attachments. The Scot of Scotch
                    Settlement, in 
                        Columbiana County
                    , thought of 
                        Aberdeenshire as their
                    "country" (p. 119), while 
                        East Liverpool
                     represented a transplantation of the English Potteries, memorably described in the novels of
                    Arnold Bennett. And the English from 
                        Lancashire
                     and 
                        Yorkshire
                     would have united (for once) in denouncing an author who links those counties with the
                    "North Midlands" (p. 51)!
                Many English immigrants found more difficulty in adjusting and assimilating than we are led to believe by Van
                    Vugt. The Courtauld family, who attempted to settle in 
                        Athens County
                     in the 1820s, chose to return home partly because they felt that Anglophobe antagonism deprived
                    them of opportunities and fair treatment. Van Vugt shows the difficulties faced by Bible Christians from 
                        Devon
                     and 
                        Cornwall
                     in the 1830s, while Anglophobe prejudice disrupted the Methodist church in 
                        Lorain County
                     after the Civil War, despite the supposed similarity of the church's evangelical outlook
                    with that of other sects in the area. And let it not be forgotten that English settlers who participated in
                    politics frequently suffered abuse because of their origins.
                In the face of such perceived hostility, many English felt more need to sustain institutions than immigration
                    historians have often supposed. As Kevin Watson has recently demonstrated, the Primitive Methodists provided
                    essential cultural and communal support for their working-class members at the same time as they eased
                    assimilation. This was part of a pattern that saw many 
                        Ohio
                     mining areas in the late nineteenth century follow the English pattern in which miners from
                    Welsh, Scottish, and English mining regions formed vigorous communities marked by dissenting churches,
                    unionism, and class-conscious politics.
                Van Vugt devotes much of his book to presenting brief biographies diligently retrieved from the huge compendia
                    of undigested information found in the many county histories produced between 1880 and 1920. While this
                    anecdotal approach enables the author to tell good stories about colorful characters, he seems at times too
                    concerned with multiplying examples to maintain a clear argument. Moreover, the old-fashioned
                    "contributions" theme stands in the way of more interesting questions, such as those the author
                    tackled in his absorbing Britain to American: Mid-Nineteenth-Century Immigrants to the 
                            Untited States
                        
                     (1999). And, in any case, how can we measure the distinctiveness of a particular ethnic
                    "contribution" without evidence of the contributions of others?
                DONALD J. RATCLIFFE is a professor in the Modern History Research Unit at the University of 
                        Oxford
                    . The author of Party Spirit in a Frontier Republic: Democratic Politics in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1793-1821
                     (1998) and The Politics of Long Division: The Birth of the
                        Second Party System in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1818-1828 (2000), he is currently writing on Anglo-American political and economic
                    relations before the Civil War.
            
            
                
                    Native SoilA History of the 
                            DeKalb County
                         Farm Bureau
                    By Eric Mogren (
                        DeKalb : Northern
                    Illinois University Press, 2005. Pp. xi, 288. Photographs,notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.) 
                In Native Soil, Eric Mogren describes how farsighted 
                        Illinois
                     community leaders and farmers organized to improve agricultural techniques in an effort to raise
                    rural standards of living and increase the prosperity of small-town businesses. Formed in 1912, the 
                        DeKalb
                     Soil Improvement Association (SIA) hired a full-time farm advisor to assist local farmers in
                    enhancing and preserving the quality of their soil. While many communities created such organizations to
                    sponsor demonstration agents, Mogren contends that the SIArenamed the 
                        DeKalb County
                     Farm Bureau in 1916was unique. Predating the 1914 Smith-Eever Act, which provided matching
                    federal funds to hire state and county agricultural agents, the association established a tradition of local
                    control missing from many of the groups that organized after the passage of that legislation. Ultimately, the
                    men responsible for 
                        DeKalb's
                     Farm Bureau did a remarkable job of serving their constituents, making a series of intelligent
                    business decisions that gave the group a firm financial foundation.
                As Mogren shows, Farm Bureau leaders confronted and met a wide range of challenges during the
                    organization's first seventy years. After raising an initial $10,000, the group struggled financially.
                    They reluctantly applied for federal funds in 1914 but retained autonomy.
                The association's first advisor, William Eckhardt, gained county acceptance thanks to his extensive
                    knowledge and strong interpersonal skills. Eckhardt tested soil samples and prescribed seeding clover and
                    applying lime to combat yield-limiting acidic soils. He arranged for annual cooperative bulk purchases of both
                    substances, answered myriad inquiries from farmers, wrote columns for local newspapers, and published a
                    newsletter. His successors continued and expanded his work, forming livestock and dairy marketing programs,
                    youth clubs, and home management programs, as well as lobbying for property tax relief. The business arm of
                    the 
                        DeKalb
                     Farm Bureau, the 
                        DeKalb
                     Agricultural Association, established an oil cooperative, a hybrid seed company, and local meat
                    lockers.
                
                After World War II, membership surged. Howard Mullins, 
                        DeKalb's
                     new leader, hoped to represent grassroots opinion on national farm policya stance that often put
                    the organization at odds with the 
                        American
                     Farm Bureau Federation. Mullins's activism, however, drew the attention of President John F.
                    Kennedy, who appointed him to a position on the National Agricultural Advisory Commission. Locally, the 
                        DeKalb
                     Farm Bureau remained active, supporting the creation of a junior college in the county and, in
                    the 1970s, sponsoring two ambitious, but ultimately unsuccessful, trade groups: 
                        DeKalb County
                     Exports (DCX) and 
                        DeKalb County
                     Marketing Services (DCMS). Both organizations were created in an attempt to remove middlemen and
                    increase profits by marketing high-quality 
                        DeKalb
                     -branded products; DCX for grain and DCMS for meat. They foundered for numerous reasons, not
                    least of which was the fact that the managers, although excellent farmers, lacked the marketing acumen to make
                    the ventures successful.
                
                    Native Soil is an interesting account of the ways in which farmers and their (sometime)
                    allies on Main Street cooperated to bring greater prosperity to rural people. Mogren thoroughly describes the
                    daily activities of the farm advisors, changes in staff and organization, and the group's numerous
                    business ventures. The book's only disappointing aspect is that, aside from a reference to the opening of
                    the county's new Center for Agriculture building in 1996, it ends with the collapse of DCX in 1982 and
                    DCMS in 1987. Readers can only wonder how the organization coped at the millennium.
                This is a minor complaint, however. Historians of the Midwest, Progressive reform, business culture,
                    agriculture, and rural life will value the book. It should also prompt historians of the Hoosier experience to
                    seek the similarities or differences that separate 
                        DeKalb County's
                     story from that of 
                        Indiana's
                     own rural institutions.
                J. L. ANDERSON is assistant professor of history at the University of West 
                        Georgia
                    , 
                        Carrolton
                    . His manuscript, "Industrializing 
                        Iowa
                     Farmers, Technology, and the Midwestern Landscape, 1945-1972," is under contract with
                    Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press.
            
            
            
                
                    Two Tales of a CityRebuilding 
                            Chicago's
                         Architectural and Social Landscape, 1986-2005
                    By Gail Satler. Foreward by Lee Bey (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xvi, 256. Illustrations, index. $39.95.) 
                Gail Satler's Two Tales of a City is a coffee-table book that aims to make an argument.
                    In this sense, it resembles historian Timothy Gilfoyle's recently published Millennium
                        Park:Creating a 
                            Chicago
                         Landmark (2006), a thick volume loaded with photographs and maps that also includes a
                    detailed account of how 
                        Chicago's
                     most famous contemporary monument came to be. Satler's discussion of recent 
                        Chicago
                     planning and development initiatives, though running to under 250 pages of text and photographs,
                    manages to cover Millennium Park, the downtown Loop's refurbished State Street corridor, developments
                    along the main and south branches of the Chicago
                        River, and a variety of other residential, commercial, and transportation infrastructure
                    projects around the city. Indeed, the sheer number of sites that Satler visits and interprets seems to hinder
                    her in developing a coherent overall interpretation of contemporary development trends in 
                        Chicago
                    .
                The gist of Satler's assessment of contemporary 
                        Chicago
                     physical development seems to be that in the mid-1980s a local design renaissance emerged,
                    attributable to planners, architects, and other design professionals reengaging with the hallmarks of 
                        Chicago's
                     older architecture. For example, Satler's description of the mid-1990s State Street makeover
                    reserves high praise for the group of designers who incorporated Prairie-style motifs in the new State Street
                    signage, street furniture, and subway entrances, in so doing reaffirming this iconic commercial
                    district's place identity. At many other points, Satler's narrative implies that a recent explosion
                    of new economic creativity has rejuvenated local architectural practice. Though Satler never mentions
                    "creative class" guru Richard Florida, her line of discussion parallels his claims regarding the
                    emergence of a new urban dynamism.
                Writers on architecture and cityscapes tend to fall into one of two presentational camps. On the one hand are
                    the Jane Jacobs and William H. Whyte-style empiricists, who treat buildings, plazas, and streets in their
                    three-dimensional detail and relentlessly question "how they work" for their users. The other
                    camp-which has included many renowned architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, and Louis
                    Sullivan-writes as if sidewalks, facades, and public spaces were merely starting points for deeper life's
                    fundamental truths. Satler tips her hand as a deep explorer early in this volume, when she warns that the
                    reader should expect "incongruities and sometimes startling juxtapositions"  (p. 10). This, indeed, is the case. On many occasions she breaks off from the
                    discussion of a particular building or site to relate the often abstract formulations of leading sociologists
                    (past and present) such as Robert Park, Manuel Castells, and Saskia Sassen. None of these observers is
                    especially noted for his or her interpretations of the physical city, and Satler's frequent recourse to
                    their commentary rarely amplifies her own descriptions.
                Gail Satler's account of recent 
                        Chicago
                     physical development, documented as it is by a large number of photographs (evidently taken by
                    the author), would have resulted in a more cogent statement had she placed greater trust in her own eyes and
                    experience as guides to how 
                        Chicago's
                     new physical spaces "work" for their residents.
                LARRY BENNETT teaches in the Political Science Department at DePaul University, 
                        Chicago
                    . His most recent book is the co-edited The New 
                            Chicago
                        : A Social and Cultural Analysis  (2006).
            
            
                
                    IrmaA 
                            Chicago
                         Woman's Story, 1871-1966
                    By Ellen FitzSimmons Steinberg (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xxi, 231. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $49.95;
                    paperbound, $19.95.) 
                Memoirs and autobiographies continue to intrigue historians and general readers. While the lives of famous
                    individuals have always been sought after and 
                        Americans
                     remain fascinated with celebrity, the memoir has, since the advent of the new social history in
                    the 1970s, benefited from another trend: interest in the lives of ordinary people. Ellen FitzSimmons
                    Steinberg, author of Irma: A 
                            Chicago
                         Woman's Story, tells us that "by her own admission, [Irma] was 'nobody
                    famous'" (p. xiii). Steinberg goes to considerable lengths to present the story of Irma in the
                    woman's own words"the more than half a million words Irma wrote during her adult life" (p.
                    ix)even though she left no sustained manuscript that reflects her own ordering of her life story. Steinberg
                    spent more than twelve months transcribing Irma's diaries, journals, letters, and other papers. She
                    carried out additional research, spoke with family members, and then "placed Irma's writings within
                    a temporal-social-religious framework to explain what might otherwise be unfamiliar to a reader" (p.
                    ix).
                Steinberg's reconstruction verges, in places, on being a new creation, explaining, for example, that
                    "the stories in the early chapters" of Irma are "whole cloth woven from various entries and
                    remembrances Irma made  throughout her life about a specific subject or
                    subjects" (p. xii). Yes, these are Irma's words, but it is Steinberg who has arranged them,
                    supplying the dates for each quotation in the appropriate chapter notes. The reader will have to decide
                    whether or not such editorial strategies-which also include using bold type for Steinberg's own editorial
                    voice, plain type for Irma's words, and footnotes to provide historical context and information-work. In
                    either case, Steinberg deserves praise for letting readers see her methodology, and for clearly articulating
                    how she has constructed the narrative, privileging Irma's subjective experience and telling the story in
                    Irma's own words.
                Steinberg's reconstruction of Irma's life warrants comparison with other "collaborations"
                    undertaken by biographers and historians who have worked with oral accounts, unpublished and often incomplete
                    manuscripts, and fragments of diaries, journals, and letters. Such autobiographical materials, especially the
                    fragmented voices of women on the margins of the 
                        American
                     mainstream, are difficult to decode. The end product of such collaborations varies. The submerged
                    or incomplete autobiographical "voice" and the editorial voice that supplies context and narrative
                    may produce historical fiction, a literary creation, or a work of social history. Two impressive examples come
                    from daughters who dedicated themselves to publishing their mothers' autobiographical manuscripts
                    posthumously: Crusader for Justice: The Autobiography of Ida B. Wells (1970), edited by her
                    daughter, Alfreda M. Duster; and I Came A Stranger: The Story of a Hull-House Girl (1989) by
                    Hilda Satt Polacheck, edited by Dena J. Polacheck Epstein. Both Duster and Epstein heavily sprinkled their
                    edited autobiographies with explanatory footnotes; both editors dealt with inconsistencies and inaccuracies in
                    the original text and provided further information about historical events and people.
                A third relevant collaboration, Rosa: The Life of an 
                            Italian
                         Immigrant (1970) by Marie Hall Ets, is based on stories told by the illiterate cleaning
                    woman Rosa Cassattari to Ets, a social worker and writer. Although Ets considered Rosa and herself coauthors,
                    the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press editor John Ervin Jr. would not agree to a shared credit line for the book, written long
                    after Rosa's death. This confusion suggests the central problem of Irma, a "collaboration" that
                    shares some elements of the process in which Duster and Epstein engaged and other aspects more akin to Rosa.
                    On balance, however, I would say that the benefits of such collaborative reconstructions far outweigh their
                    problems. Consider, for example, the case of Ella Flagg Young, Irma's language teacher and principal of
                    the Skinner School (a public secondary school in 
                        Chicago
                    ). "Mrs. Young was a little masculine sort of human,"Irma writes. "She had
                    flashing, penetrating eyes. Sarcasm was one of her  weapons" (p. 32).
                    Under Young's tutelage, Irma learned to write "a correct English sentence" (p. 34) and, as the
                    daughter of German Jewish immigrants, responded affirmatively to her teacher's efforts to develop her
                    English fluency. Historians and biographers have already illuminated the life and achievements of Young, the
                    first woman superintendent of a major urban school system and a colleague of John Dewey and Jane Addams, but
                    it is rare that we find out how one of the pupils in her school felt about her. In such details lies the
                    strength of this collaborative effort between two women who never met.
                RIMA LUNIN SCHULTZ is an independent scholar and editor, with Adele Hast, of Women Building 
                            Chicago
                        : A Biographical Dictionary (2001).
            
            
                
                    My Century in HistoryMemoirs
                    By Thomas D. Clark (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 2006. Pp. xx, 393. Illustrations,index. $27.95.) 
                Thomas D. (for Dionysius, to Clark's intense regret) Clark was born in one of the poorest parts of 
                        Mississippi
                     on Bastille Day 1902. He died near the date of his 102nd birthday in 2004. He spent his earliest
                    days in the fields, and his youth along the rivers, at the hardest sort of work: on a dredgeboat. Intent on an
                    education of some sort, he did attend high school (a major achievement in 
                        Mississippi
                     at that time) and managed to enroll at "Ole Miss," in 
                        Oxford
                    , itself not much better than a good high school at the time. He earned a Ph.D. at the new
                    (literally risen from the pineland) Duke University in 
                        Durham
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , and, in 1932, took a position at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     in 
                        Lexington
                    , where he remained for most of the rest of his life. In the days of departmental satrapies that
                    preceded the departmental democratization of the mid-1960s, Clark single-handedly created at 
                        Kentucky
                     a first-class gathering of scholar-teachers, similar to departments at 
                        North Carolina
                    , Yale, Northwestern, and 
                        Iowa
                    .
                This memoir is the best book I have read in the past ten years, perhaps more. For one thing, it is beautifully
                    written. Any student or teacher wishing to see what tight prose can be should read it for that point alone.
                    Here is evidence of a disciplined mind, nothing lessnot a word out of place, no stranded sentences. Even at
                    the end of the book, when Clark was perhaps writing hurriedly, knowing that the bell of time was about to ring
                    for him, one finds not the least sign of looseness.
                Clark could make any subject interesting. He includes an entire chapter on the name change of the Mississippi
                    Valley Historical Associ-  ation to the Organization of American
                    Historians (including what Professor Paul Gates said about it). Clark also provides a vivid account of how
                    supposedly higher education in the 
                        United States
                     made itself actually that, within his own lifetime, although not without trouble from
                    administrators. Even the indomitable Clark could not prevent himself from telling off some of the officials at 
                        Kentucky
                     during the course of his residence there, and he remained angry about these episodes to the day
                    he died. "We didn't come in here to listen to you," Clark recalls telling University President
                    Jack Oswald. "We came in here to do the talking and expect you to listen" (p. 122). Oswald went on
                    to greater glory at 
                        Pennsylvania
                     State University, but that fact had nothing to do with Clark's animosity.
                Clark spent several years at 
                        Indiana
                     University in the 1960s and 1970s and I knew him well. I would come into Ballantine Hall at 7:10
                    each morning, would get off the elevator on the seventh floor, and turn down the corridor to see all office
                    doors shut, save oneClark's. "What's the matter with you, Tom," I would ask, "trying
                    to get promoted?" He would laugh and I would sit down for some chatter or other. On Saturdays he and his
                    wife Beth would drive out to the country where I had a square forty on top of a hill. Beth stayed in the house
                    and held the baby; Tom and I went out looking for boundary markers: four small granite posts with
                    "x" marks at the top. When we finally found one, we would square it off, then follow a line of
                    hundred-year-old barbed wire to dig out the next. He was full of stories of finding acreage on 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        South Carolina
                     properties described by the local inhabitants as having fifty-three acres or forty-seven when the
                    plotslacking the predictable regularity of the Northwest Territory surveywere in fact 372 more. Tom, a land
                    hog, bought them; he owned thousands of acres in both states. A straight arrow if there ever was one, Clark
                    was and is unforgettable. I write close to Bastille Day, 2007.
                ROBERT H. FERRELL is professor emeritus of history at 
                        Indiana
                     University.
            
            
                
                    Healing the Heart, Healing the 'Hood
                    By Olgen Williams (
                        West Lafayette
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Purdue University Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 135. $21.95.) 
                
                    Healing the Heart, Healing the 'Hood might be categorized as an autobiography: the
                    literary narration of one's own life. Author Olgen Williams, director of Christamore House (an 
                        Indianapolis
                     community center with roots in the settlement house tradition), indicates in the text that the
                    book is the product of a student assignment to write an autobiography  (p.
                    ix). I feel, however, that it would be more accurate to categorize the work as an autobiographical sketch-a
                    good outline, but one that invites more questions than satisfaction.
                It must be very difficult to write an autobiography. The narrator is forced to revisit unfortunate experiences
                    and to tear away the psychological scabs that serve to protect and numb. At the same time, he must draw
                    attention to notable acts and accomplishments without appearing arrogant. Williams's success would have
                    been impossible to predict when he was in his early twenties: recently discharged from the Army, working at an 
                        Indianapolis
                     post office, abusing a host of illegal drugs, critical of any form of authority and on his way to
                    federal prison for embezzling from his employer. His life history-of which the book gives only a maddening
                    glimpse-is an example of courage and redemption.
                
                    Healing the Heart, Healing the 'Hood is composed of twelve brief chapters that
                    correspond to significant portions of Williams's life. The only divergent chapter is the
                    eleventh-"My Philosophy of an Urban Church Ministry"-in which Williams provides a treatise on the
                    proper role of the church in the urban community. In his mind, the church is an institution as integral,
                    perhaps more so, than any to the task of inducing a healthy, vibrant community. Williams credits his Christian
                    experience as the source of his rebirth and renewal. It was, he maintains, his faith, and the work of God in
                    his life that allowed him to overcome his drug habit and gave him the strength to lead a productive life. I
                    believe that Williams would be pleased if his book served the singular purpose of providing a testimonial of
                    Christian discipleship.
                Unfortunately, the student of urban history (particularly 
                        Indianapolis
                     urban history) will find the book lacking in sufficient detail or analysis. One of the
                    historian's cardinal responsibilities is to be conscious of time and place. Williams undertakes the
                    responsibility sparingly, providing little context for the events he relates. While he has the opportunity to
                    bear personal witness to an under-studied period of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history, Williams opts for only a succinct recounting of the activities that made Christamore
                    House, under his leadership, an exemplary community center. The last ten pages of the book list the programs
                    developed by the Westside Cooperative Organization since 1996, but Williams neither discusses his involvement
                    nor provides details about the public-private partnership that made many of these social service programs
                    available. Despite these shortcomings, Williams's tale merits reading by anyone seeking inspiration from
                    an example of a meaningful life.
                RICHARD PIERCE is John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C. Associate Professor of History and chair of the Department
                    of Africana Studies at the University of Notre Dame.
            
            
            
                
                    Rolling Away the StoneMary Baker Eddy's Challenge to Materialism
                    By Stephen Gottschalk (
                        Bloomington
                    : 
                        Indiana
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 484. Illustrations, chronology, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.) 
                
                    Rolling Away the Stone is a well-researched, elegantly written, sympathetic biography of
                    Mary Baker Eddy (1821-1910), the founder of Christian Science. One of several biographies of Eddy, this is the
                    first book-length study to draw extensively on the recently opened collections of the Mary Baker Eddy Library
                    in 
                        Boston
                    . The perspective of her newest biographer, the late Stephen Gottschalk, is explicitly that of an
                    insider to Christian Science. The tone is admiring and at points defensive, but the narrative is at every
                    point richly textured and engaging, not only shedding light on Eddy and Christian Science, but also presenting
                    fresh readings of other influential 
                        Americans
                     and illuminating broader cultural trends of historical and current significance.
                Gottschalk's book focuses on the last two decades of Eddy's life, from 1889 to 1910, a period during
                    which Eddy, although in her seventies and eighties, engaged in some of her most influential work to establish
                    and defend Christian Science. The chapters are organized more topically than chronologically, and the
                    narrative frequently jumps backward and forward in time to pick up on particular themes; a timeline at the
                    back of the book alleviates the frustration that this organizational scheme might otherwise cause the reader.
                    The narrative is at its finest in chapter two's comparison of Eddy with vocal critic Mark Twain-revealing
                    surprising similarities. Twain, like Eddy, grappled with the problem of evil, resisting Calvinist
                    understandings of the sources and meanings of sickness, but reaching conclusions that diverged sharply from
                    Eddy's. According to Gottschalk, Eddy's "overriding interest was to establish the Christian
                    identity of Christian Science" (p. 141), and Gottschalk apparently shares this agenda. The biography
                    emphasizes Eddy's devotion to the Bible and prayer. Likewise, it refutes the claim of previous
                    biographers that Eddy stole her ideas from mind-cure healer Phineas Parkhurst Quimby (1802-1866). This point
                    is important not only as a defense of Eddy's integrity and originality, but more fundamentally as a
                    defense of the movement's Christian identity. In Gottschalk's own words, it refutes the charge that
                    "Christian Science, even if clothed in Christian language, belonged to the orbit of mesmerism rather than
                    Christianity" (p. 273). The narrative accepts Eddy's argument that the truth of Christian Science is
                    evidenced by its "fruitage" (p. 323)-the testimonies of physical  and spiritual healing that many individuals avowedly experienced, often while reading Science and Health
                    (1875). Such healing claims are not, according to Gottschalk, "easily dismissed" (p. 332), but the
                    book presents no evidence beyond the sheer number and variety of such claims.
                Although some of the volume's biographical details might be of greater interest to Christian Scientists
                    than others, a broad spectrum of readers should take interest in its crucial conceptual argument that
                    Christian Science issued a fundamental challenge to the materialism that has explicitly dominated biomedicine
                    and implicitly shaped 
                        American
                     Christianity. This theme of antimaterialism helps us to understand a range of healing
                    alternatives that proliferated at two historical moments when naturalistic paradigms seemed in the ascendancy:
                    the late nineteenth century, when Christian Science emerged alongside such alternatives as homeopathy,
                    mesmerism, chiropractic, and divine healing; and again in the late twentieth century, with the blossoming of
                    practices such as yoga, Therapeutic Touch, and charismatic Christianity. By presenting a clear portrait of
                    Eddy's teachings, Gottschalk's work can provide a springboard for more nuanced comparisons and
                    contrasts with such alternatives, which have tended to be conflated in many discussions. In sum, this is a
                    beautifully written, provocative biography that a variety of readers will find valuable.
                CANDY GUNTHER BROWN, associate professor of religious studies at 
                        Indiana
                     University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is the author of The Word in the World: Evangelical Writing, Publishing, and
                        Reading in 
                            America
                        , 1789-1880 (2004), and is writing a cultural history of spiritual healing in 
                        America
                    .
            
            
                
                    CopperheadsThe Rise and Fall of Lincoln's Opponents in the North
                    By Jennifer L. Weber (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 286. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $28.00.) 
                Carl von Clausewitz, the German war theorist, claimed that a nation's success in waging war required a
                    coordinated effort between its people, its leaders, and its army (p. 10). If one leg of this triad falters,
                    the structure will topple. The Civil War proved no exception to this theory. Indeed, Lincoln feared that a
                    third column of antiwar Democrats(Copperheads) would undermine the Union war effort; he called this internal
                    threat "the fire in the rear." In Copperheads: The Rise and Fall of Lincoln's
                        Opponents in the North, Jennifer L. Weber persuasively argues that "the fire in  the rear" was no mere fizzle, but a volatile blaze stoked by Union defeat on
                    the battlefield.
                Combining meticulous research in military, political, and social history with an engaging narrative,
                    Weber's excellent book challenges the prevailing views of historians like Frank L. Klement who have
                    dismissed the Copperhead threat as a "fairy tale" invented by Republicans to justify their expansion
                    of federal power. Weber demonstrates, rather, that "the peace movement was broad, and so influential by
                    August 1864 that it very nearly took over the Democratic Party."
                Also known as butternuts and conservatives, the Copperheads fancied themselves as strict constructionists who
                    sought a return to the status quo antebellum -their motto: "the Constitution as it is,
                    the Union as it was." They repudiated the draft, paper currency, the emancipation, black troops, the
                    suspension of habeas corpus, and the suppression of the press (p. 120). Though "[t]heir argument was
                    based on constitutional principle," Weber explains, "it was wrapped in racist rhetoric designed to
                    appeal to people's basest fears" (p. 77).
                Perhaps the most infamous Copperhead was Clement L. Vallandigham, the former 
                        Ohio
                     congressman, who was arrested by General Ambrose Burnside and tried by a military commission for
                    speaking against the draft. Weber superbly details how Vallandigham and others helped turn dissent to treason:
                    Copperheads schemed to create a Northwest Confederacy, formed para-military groups, fomented riots and
                    uprisings, plotted invasions from 
                        Canada
                    , and actually raided 
                        Vermont
                    . Copperhead resistance was most intense in 
                        Indiana
                    . Particularly interesting is the effect of the movement upon the Union soldiers, who were stirred
                    to angry reprisals both at home and at the polls. A 
                        Vermont
                     private explained, "Soldiers don't generally believe in fighting to put down treason,
                    and voting to let it live" (p. 198).
                The 1864 election marked both the rise and fall of the Copperheads-Vallandigham wrote the Democratic
                    Party's "peace platform" and George Pendleton, another Peace Democrat, ran as candidate for
                    vice president. To stir racial animus against the Republicans, a Copperhead editor surreptitiously published a
                    pamphlet that endorsed miscegenation. This, coupled with a string of Union victories on the battlefield in the
                    late summer, fortuitously ensured a Republican victory at the polls and the demise of the Copperheads.
                Among their many flaws, the Copperheads failed to appreciate that the South wanted independence, not
                    concessions. They naively believed that reunion would inevitably occur if the Republicans were ousted from
                    power. Their libertarian ideology further blinded them to the gravity of the rebellion and to the necessity of
                    federal power as a means to quell it. Finally, they could offer no concrete  solutions, but only vague proposals for peace.
                After so richly documenting the magnitude of the threat posed by this movement, Weber leaves unanswered the
                    normative question of whether Lincoln's curtailment of civil liberties was justified. One may infer that
                    she believes so since she describes Lincoln's dealings with the dissidents as "restrained" (p.
                    217). In any event, her research may spark fresh debate over the enduring problem of balancing security and
                    freedom in wartime.
                JOSEPH R. FORNIERI is associate professor of political science at Rochester Institute of Technology, 
                        New York
                    , and consulting academic editor for Lincoln Lore, published by the Lincoln
                    Museum, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . He is the author of Abraham Lincoln's Political Faith (2003) and several
                    edited books on the sixteenth president.
            
            
                
                    Sold 
                            American
                        
                        Consumption and Citizenship, 1890-1945 
                    By Charles E McGovern (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        
                    North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. xv, 536. Figures, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $65.00;
                    paperbound, $24.95.) 
                Charles F. McGovern's study of consumerism as public philosophy is the latest addition to the important
                    new literature on the political economy of consumer capitalism. Sold 
                            American
                        
                     provides a chronological and conceptual bridge between Kathleen Donohue's Freedom From
                        Want (2003) and Lizabeth Cohen's A Consumers' Republic (2003) and
                    represents a sturdy contribution to our thinking about what is arguably the most important question in
                    contemporary American history: How was it that consumer capitalism succeeded in sweeping aside all
                    challengers?
                McGovern's answer is that, in the first half of the twentieth century, 
                        Americans
                     embraced "a material nationalism that placed goods and spending at the center of social
                    life," that they "came to understand spending as a form of citizenship" (p. 3). 
                        Americans
                     accepted a definition of the " 
                        American
                     way of life" built on an image of consumer plenty, McGovern argues, as if the right to use a
                    Gillette razor were part of the daily fiber of national life and its exercise a civic act, if not an
                    obligation. McGovern rightly sees this consumerist nationalism as eventually defined national identity. As the
                    economic system spilled forth its cornucopia and 
                        Americans
                     chased after its goodies, the terrain of meaningful ideological contention shifted from the old
                    socialist-against-capitalist fight to a debate over the nature of consumption.
                
                McGovern argues that the advertising industry "readily adapted political language and nationalist
                    rhetoric" (p. 62) not just as sales pitches but as part of a project to eliminate those pesky holdovers
                    from the nineteenth century, common-good republicanism and democratic populism. The industry commandeered
                    basic democratic assumptions to argue that every act of consumption was a ballot cast in a great leveling:
                    democracy of consumption was open to all, regardless of class. Women were enfranchised in the consumer
                    republic well before they were voting for presidents; brand names stood like candidates on the national stage;
                    and consumers across the country were urged to for sake the local stiffs for the truly national candidates
                    like Campbell's Tomato Soup. During wartime, in particular, it was easy to conduct overtly patriotic
                    campaigns that suggested, with no great subtlety, that buying was part of the cause. If World War I generated
                    the first great wave of such corporate ideological claims, World War II provided the chance to clinch the
                    case, this time by positing the consumers' " 
                        American
                     way of life" as the very thing worth fighting for.
                Madison Avenue's ideological opponents were that group of professional social scientists who took it upon
                    themselves to protect consumers from unscrupulous advertisers and worse-than-useless products. Paradoxically,
                    by advocating for the consumer, they elevated consumption to the center of public discourse, shed the
                    nineteenth-century emphasis on self-reliance through labor, and muted whatever commitments they had made to a
                    radical reordering of 
                        America
                    . In defense of the consumer, they made the crucial strategic error of fighting entirely on
                    consumer capitalism's turf. This line of argument represents McGovern's most original contribution
                    to the literature of consumer history.
                Consumers themselves stood in the middle of this ideological struggle. McGovern provides ample proof that even
                    as ad men courted the public with patriotic allusions to the democratic power of consumer choice, they
                    considered consumers to be, as various industry representatives admitted, "a vast army of half wits"
                    (p. 230) with "incredibly shallow brain pans" (p. 240). Consumer advocates were not much better.
                    They assumed that consumers, especially women, lacked the technical knowledge to evaluate products and the
                    common sense to resist advertisers.
                But it remains uncertain how consumer-citizens lined up in this battle between the ad men and the advocates,
                    and they remain the wild cards in our efforts to reconstruct consumerism's rise to dominance. Just why
                    and how deeply 
                        Americans
                     embraced consumption remain elusive questions. It does not help that McGovern, like far too many
                    consumer historians, deploys the doctrine of the social meaning of goods as among the principal reasons why 
                        Americans
                     became consumers. For  academics straining to avoid the
                    conclusion that consumers are indeed a vast army of halfwits, it is comforting to think that people create
                    themselves through the goods they buy But the doctrine's roots run back to limited anthropological claims
                    that cultural studies types subsequently have misunderstood and misapplied to contemporary 
                        America
                    .
                I am far more persuaded by McGovern's concluding observations that 
                        Americans
                     remain uneasy about their comfortable enslavement; that their uneasiness comes to the surface
                    when environmental breakdown, Wal-Mart monopolization, and deindustrialization call into question the social
                    contract of consumer society; and that when such crises appear, 
                        Americans
                     find themselves having surrendered the very ideas that might generate a credible counter-vision
                    of the good society Such observations might offer the best explanation for why consumer capitalism holds the
                    field against all opponents.
                DAVID STEIGERWALD is associate professor of history at 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Marion
                    , and is the author of "All Hail the Republic of Choice: Consumer History as Contemporary
                    Thought," Journal of 
                            American
                         History, 93 (September 2006), 385-403. His latest project is a book on 
                        Americans
                     thought and culture in the age of affluence.
            
            
                
                    Robber BaronThe Life of Charles Tyson Yerkes
                    By John Franch (
                        Champaign
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2006. Pp. 374. Illustrations, notes, index. $45.00.) 
                Anyone who has read about 
                        Chicago
                     at the turn of the twentieth century has encountered Charles Tyson Yerkes. Street railway
                    magnate, swindler, philandering husband, freewheeling businessman at a time when few laws prevented
                    corruption, Yerkes would seem to be one of those larger-than-life figures about whom a biography would make
                    scintillating reading.
                Born in 1837 to a well-off Quaker 
                        Philadelphia
                     family, Yerkes opened his own brokerage firm while in his early twenties. By the time he was
                    thirty-four he had amassed a great deal of money through a series of shady business maneuvers that landed him
                    in prison for larceny in 1872. Pardoned quickly through political maneuvering, Yerkes began to rebuild his
                    fortune in street railway construction. He left 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the mid-1880s to avoid the social scandal of his divorce and remarriage to a much younger
                    woman, and to seek better business opportunities in the rapidly expanding city of 
                        Chicago
                    . There he built several traction lines  on the city's
                    north and west sides and was highly instrumental in constructing the Loop elevated railway.
                Yerkes's business methods in 
                        Chicago
                     were as shady and political as they had been in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He proved ruthless with his competitors, dishonest with his investors' money, and totally
                    unsympathetic to the traction workers. He controlled his interests through alliances with dishonest city
                    council members. When municipal reformers did manage to thwart his plans, he turned to the state legislature
                    and manipulated them into passing new laws that would allow him to secure long-term franchises from the city
                    to maintain control of his railway lines. To help publicize his cause, he bought a newspaper, the Daily InterOcean. In the end, however, he failed to secure his franchise extensions. In 1899, Yerkes
                    left 
                        Chicago
                     for 
                        London
                    , where he participated in expanding the underground "tube" system. He retained control
                    of his 
                        Chicago
                     operations, but within five years these had fallen into severe financial trouble.Yerkes himself
                    died in 1905.
                Despite what might seem like a fascinating story, Yerkes the man is not very interesting. The result is a book
                    that reads as a rather mundane accounting of a shady, arrogant, socially marginal individual who took
                    advantage of the late stages of laissez-faire capitalism to enrich himself at others' expense. Yerkes,
                    moreover, left behind few personal or business papers from which to tease out a more nuanced recounting of his
                    life. Therefore, some of the problem may lie in the author's need to rely largely on newspaper accounts
                    of Yerkes's public activities. Moreover, while the era in which Yerkes lived and operated was more
                    interesting than the man himself-especially in 
                        Chicago
                     -Franch chooses not to focus on that context. He dubs Yerkes a member of the "Gilded
                    Generation . . [those men who] were especially tenacious in their pursuit of monetary success ... such as the
                    railroad speculator Jay Gould ... the financier J. P Morgan ... and the oil tycoon John D. Rockefeller"
                    (p. 13). This is heady company, but unlike these so-called robber barons, Yerkes left little legacy beyond his
                    legendary corruption. His only major cultural endowment, for instance, was the Yerkes Observatory in 
                        Williams Bay
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
                Readers interested in the details of 
                        Chicago's
                     traction development will find a wealth of factual information here, as will those concerned with
                    the details of Yerkes's public activities. But with little on the history of the U.S. at the time,
                    Franch's book will offer readers few clues for understanding why Yerkes might warrant a full-scale
                    biography.
                MAUREEN A. FLANAGAN, professor of history at 
                        Michigan
                     State University, 
                        East Lansing
                    , is author of Seeing with Their Hearts: 
                            Chicago
                         Women and the Vision of the Good City, 1871-1933 (2002) and 
                            America
                         Reformed: Progressives and Progressivisms, 1890s-1920s (2007).
            
            
            
                 REVIEW NOTICES 
                
                
                    
                            Ohio's
                         War The Civil War in Documents Edited by Christine Dee
                (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2007. Pp. xviii, 244. Map, illustrations, timeline, notes, select bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $16.95.)
                Judging from the first entry in 
                        Ohio
                     University Press's The Civil War in the Great Interior series, readers with a serious
                    interest in the war's history-including teachers at the high school and college levels who seek course
                    texts-will be well-served by the forth-coming volumes. Christine Dee provides an excellent overview of the
                    state's antebellum history and a two- to three-page introduction to each of the book's eight
                    sections. The documents, many of which have never before appeared in print, are chosen from a wide variety of
                    newspapers, letters, diaries, and official papers; they reproduce the voices of soldiers, government
                    officials, women and children, whites and blacks. Most documents include a brief introductory headnote. The
                    design of the volume is clean and easy to read, and the editor also includes an extensive timeline and select
                    bibliography at the end of the book.
                
                    Zoar in the Civil War By Philip E. Webber
                (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2007. Pp. vi, 130. Illustrations, notes, select bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $18.95.)
                When scholars have written about pacifist groups and their reactions to the Civil War, they have mostly
                    confined their studies to large groups such as the Quakers and Mennonites. Smaller, pacifist utopian groups
                    have received far less study, but Philip Webber sets about to remedy that lack for the Separatists of Zoar.
                    Drawing on newspapers, letters, and journals, many of them from little-used German-language manuscript
                    collections, Webber first provides an overview of the community's views on and experiences of the war. He
                    then examines the writings of several young Separatists who became soldiers,and finally, considers the impact
                    of the war on the later history of the settlement. This volume will appeal to anyone interested in German
                    Americans during the Civil War, but it also merits reading by those who study nineteenth-century communitarian
                    groups.
                
                
                    Camp Morion, 1816-1865 
                            Indianapolis
                         Prison Camp By Hattie Lou Winslow and Joseph R. H. Moore
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society Press, 2007. Pp. 154. Notes, illustrations, appendix, tables, index.
                    $14.95.)
                In 1995, the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society first reprinted a 1940 history of the Civil War
                    training-turned-prisoner-of-war facility, Camp Morton. For most Civil War books, a reprint of a reprint would
                    not be news, but Hattie Winslow and Joseph Moore wrote what is still one of the few scholarly works on this
                    camp; the book makes excellent use of the authors' research in primary documents and remains a standard
                    reference on the subject. An updated bibliography of works on Civil War prison camps, together with some
                    expert commentary, would have been a welcome addition and rendered the book an even more valuable historical
                    resource, but the re-availability of the original work will have to suffice.
                
                    Echoes From One-Room Schools 
                            Monroe County
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        
                     By 
                        Monroe County
                     Retired Teachers
                (
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : AuthorHouse, 2006. Pp. ix, 465. Sources, figures, tables, maps, illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $28.99.)
                Although this book will appeal primarily to anyone who grew up in 
                        Monroe County
                    , the volume can also be enjoyed by anyone interested in the one-room schools of the rural
                    Midwest. Interviews with teachers and students have been excerpted and organized, first by township and then
                    by schoolhouse. Topics range from transportation (mostly walking) to games played during recess. Pupils recall
                    the subjects they studied and the punishments they received. Teachers recall their low pay and hard work, as
                    well as their love of teaching. The book is heavily illustrated and also includes useful township maps.
                
                    A Belief in Providence A Life of Saint Theodora Guerin By Julie Young
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society Press, 2007. Pp. xiv, 182. Illustrations, index. $17.95.)
                Another in an IHS biography series for young readers, this volume covers Guerin's life and work in 
                        France
                    , as well as the hardships and successes she and her order found after their arrival in 
                        Indiana
                     in 1840. The last part of the book deals with the contemporary process of canonization which, in
                    October 2006, resulted in Guerin becoming the first Roman Catholic saint from 
                        Indiana
                    . The author sometimes assumes too much knowledge of Catholic church terminology and structure,
                    but otherwise the book is suited to its target audience.
                
                
                    The View from the Ground Experiences of Civil War Soldiers Edited by Aaron Sheehan-Dean
                (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2007. Pp. vi, 266. Notes, selected bibliography, index. $40.00.)
                This volume brings together nine essays which add to the growing scholarship on the "ordinary
                    soldier" during the Civil War. Both Northern and Southern troops are treated; topics range from morale to
                    religious beliefs, from changing views of African Americans and slavery to conflicts between officers and
                    enlisted. A brief concluding essay by Joseph Glatthaar suggests areas for future research.
                
                    Peoples of the River Valleys The Odyssey of the 
                            Delaware
                         Indians By Amy C. Schutt
                (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 2007. Pp. 250. Illustrations, notes, index. $45.00.)
                The 
                        Delaware
                     or Lenape's focus on the importance of community and kin allowed them to develop skills as
                    alliance builders and mediators in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century 
                        America
                    . These qualities, in turn, enabled the 
                        Delaware
                     to carve out a unique identity against the backdrop of early European colonization and subsequent
                    westward resettlement. Drawing upon a wide array of primary sources, Amy Schutt tells the story of the 
                        Delaware
                     and the relationships they constructed with their physical environment, other Native 
                        Americans
                    , and early colonial agents. Schutt's highly focused research and succinct writing results in
                    an accessible text useful for anyone interested in early colonialist-Native 
                        American
                     relationships.
                
                    Mennofolk Mennonite & Amish Folk Traditions By Ervin Beck
                (
                        Scottdale
                    , 
                        Pa.
                    : Herald Press, 2004. Illustrations, notes, suggested readings. Paperbound, $15.99.)
                
                    An Amish Patchwork 
                            Indiana's
                         Old Orders in the Modern World By Thomas J. Meyers and Steven M. Nolt
                (
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Quarry Books, 2005. Pp. xii, 191. Maps, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $40.00; paper-bound, $19.95.)
                These volumes are similar in their subjectAmish and Mennonite history and culturebut quite different in their
                    geographical focus and in their use of sources. Ervin Beck's work takes a broad, national look at the
                    folkways of Mennonite and Amish communities, including those in 
                        Indiana
                    , arguing that each constitutes a distinctive folk group with predictable customs and patterns of
                    behavior that span centuries. He combines oral ("trickster  "
                    and urban legends) and artistic (family histories painted on glass) sources to show how the Amish and
                    Mennonites educate, validate, and control their members.
                Meyers and Nolt focus solely on 
                        Indiana's
                     Old Order Amish and Mennonite communities. Drawing on archival materials, interviews, and
                    participatory fieldwork, the authors present a sociological analysis of Amish and Mennonite interactions with
                    state government (over matters like education or transportation) and their relationship to the 
                        Indiana
                     tourist industry.
                
                    The Fairer DeathExecuting Women in 
                            Ohio
                        
                     By Victor L. Streib
                (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 198. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $44.95; paperbound, $24.95.)
                Women, who comprise only one percent of the death-row population in the 
                        United States
                    , are often ignored in studies of criminal justice. Such condemned women, however, are the
                    centerpiece of Victor Streib's look at the historical record of capital punishment in 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . From him, we learn about their lives, their crimes, and the history of the law under which they
                    were tried.
                
                    
                            Indiana
                         LegionA Civil War Militia By John P. Etter
                (
                        Carmel
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Hawthorne Publishing, 2007. Pp. xii, 131. Illustrations, end notes. Paper-bound, $18.95.)
                This slim volume, which originated as a master's thesis at Butler University, narrates the history of the 
                        Indiana
                     Legion from its origins in 1861 through the end of the Civil War. Etter, a retired police officer
                    and Civil War reenactor, focuses on the Eegion's activities in southern 
                        Indiana
                    , including its response to the Confederate raids led by John Hunt Morgan. The book features
                    excerpts from the correspondence of some of the Eegion's 50,000 members.
                
                    Double-wideThe Collected Fiction of Michael Martone By Michael Martone
                (
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Quarry Books, 2007. Pp. x, 373. Contributor's note. Clothbound, $55.00; paperbound,
                    $22.95.)
                For over two decades Michael Martone has written humorously about 
                        Indiana
                     and its residents past and present. This volume collects sixty of Martone's short stories
                    from his first five books of fiction. He describes Hoosier experiences in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Peru
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     from the perspective of narrators who include Colonel Sanders, Alfred Kinsey, and James
                    Dean's high school English teacher.
                
                
                    
                        
                            Morgan County
                         Postcard History Series By Joanne Raetz Stuttgen and Curtis Toniak
                (
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        Ill.
                    : Arcadia Publishing, 2007. Pp. 128. Photographs, index. Paperbound, $19.99.)
                This volume in the Arcadia Press Postcard Series includes images of 
                        Morgan County
                     from primarily the first two decades of the twentieth century The selections, organized by town,
                    feature homes, churches, people, and bridges.
                
                    Carpetbaggers, Cavalry, and the Ku Klux Klan By J. Michael Martinez
                (
                        Lanham
                    , 
                        Md.
                    : Rowman and Littlefield, 2007. Pp. xiv, 269. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    Clothbound, $65.00; paper-bound, $24.95.)
                During Reconstruction, disgruntled Southerners launched one of 
                        America's
                     earliest and most enduring terrorist organizations, the Ku Klux Klan. In this volume, corporate
                    attorney and part-time political science professor J. Michael Martinez narrates the efforts of federal
                    officials to investigate, document, and eradicate the Klan from 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1871. His treatment of Major Lewis Merrill illustrates the impact of dedicated individuals who
                    labor in the face of popular insurgency and indecisive government.
                
                    My Likeness Taken Daguerreian Portraits in 
                            America
                        
                     By Joan L. Severa
                (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xix, 303. Photographs, glossary, bibliography, index.
                    $65.00.)
                Severa gathers nearly three hundred daguerreotype portraits of men, women, and children, taken between 1850 and
                    1860. Many of the images come from private collections, and all are presented in color and with original
                    frames. The portraits are presented in chronological order, and the captions emphasize the clothing and
                    fashion of the antebellum era.
            
            
            
                 LETTERS 
                
                    
                        
                            
                                 To the Editor: 
                                October 15, 2006, will be a day long remembered by the Sisters of Providence of 
                                        Saint
                                            Mary-of-the-Woods
                                    , 
                                        Indiana
                                    , and their many family members and friends. This was the day that the Holy Roman
                                    Catholic Church during a Mass of Canonization in St. Peter's Square officially declared
                                    Mother Theodore Guerin, the foundress of the Congregation, a saint. This journey to sainthood
                                    was a long one, for the cause was opened September 8, 1909, by Bishop Francis Silas Chatard,
                                    bishop of the (then) Diocese of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                                With the canonization of Mother Theodore, more people have been visiting the motherhouse
                                    grounds to visit her interim shrine in the Church of the Immaculate Conception and to walk in
                                    her footsteps on this sacred ground. As the archivist of the Congregation, I would like to
                                    extend an invitation to those doing research on Mother Theodore, religious life, the early
                                    Catholic Church in 
                                        Indiana
                                    , or other similar topics to visit our Archives.
                                Artifacts of Mother Theodore as well as her journals (both in French and English) are housed in
                                    the Archives. Some of her artifacts are on display in the Heritage Museum in Providence Center
                                    at 
                                        Saint
                                            Mary-of-the-Woods
                                     as well as at the 
                                        Indiana
                                     State Museum. Many of her artifacts can be viewed by visiting the Wabash Valley
                                    Visions and Voices Digital Memory Project's Web site at http://visions.indstate.edu.
                                The Saint Mother Theodore Guerin Cause Collection includes material on the procedures regarding
                                    her cause; various correspondence; Mother Mary Cecilia Bailly's (general superior
                                    successor to Mother Theodore) biography of Mother Theodore; and Sister Joseph Eleanor
                                    Ryan's Positio
                                     regarding Mother Theodore's life and virtues as
                                    required by the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of Saints.
                                Other collections include the Early Manuscript Collection of correspondence of early bishops,
                                    priests, Mother Theodore and other Sisters of Providence; the Olga Mae Schiemann Collection of
                                    the Joseph Bailly Family and Baillytown; the Rev. Joseph Somes Collection of early 
                                        Indiana
                                     history and the former Diocese of 
                                        Vincennes
                                    ; the Rev. Albert Wickes Collection of early correspondence and research relative
                                    to the Rev. Simon Lalumiere, the first native priest of the former Diocese of 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , and parish records of St. Joseph, 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    ; and the correspondence of Auguste Martin, first bishop of 
                                        Natchitoches
                                    , 
                                        La.
                                     (later the Diocese of 
                                        Alexandria
                                    ). There is also material available about the Congregation's mission to Asia
                                    which commenced in 1920.
                                Saint Mother Theodore Guerin-the first person declared a saint in the state of 
                                        Indiana
                                     -and other Sisters of Providence have blessed us by leaving us a legacy that we
                                    can see, study, and appreciate. Our Archives, located in the lower level of Owens Hall at 
                                        Saint
                                            Mary-of-the-Woods
                                    , is open to all who desire to learn more about this courageous woman and her
                                    daughters of the Woods. Office hours are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. We may
                                    be reached either by phone at 812-535-2880 or archives@spsmw.org.
                                
                                     SISTER MARY RYAN, SP 
                                     ARCHIVIST 
                                     SISTERS OF PROVIDENCE
                    
                         
                              SAINT MARY-OF-THE-WOODS
                         , 
                              INDIANA
                         
                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Editor's note: A review notice of Julie Young's A Belief in Providence: The Life of
                        Saint Theodora Guerin appears on page 459.
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
    
