
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 63, Issue 4, pages 263-346. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:63+issue:4+year:1967&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Three Years in the Orient: The Diary of William R. Johnson, 1898-1902
            Edited by Donald F. Carmony and Karen Tannenbaum Contributed by Bess Sellers Johnson
            "Three Years in the Orient" is the diary of William (Will) R. Johnson, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, a volunteer in the 
                        United States
                     Army during the Philippine insurrection of 1899 to 1901. Though not a polished literary
                    account, the youthful Johnson's views and reactions are probably quite representative of
                    the majority of unsophisticated Americans who served in this conflict. His belief in the justice of
                    the American position and the backwardness and even inferiority of the Philippine people is strong
                    and unquestioned. "The Filipino is a heathen looking thing half-nude and so lazy he can
                    hardly walk," Johnson wrote on his second day on the island. Also evident is the
                    matter-of-fact and patriotic devotion which marked Johnson's performance of his military
                    duties. His uncomplaining descriptions of the hardships, dangers, and sacrifices of soldiering
                    reveal the great contrast between his life as a young soldier in the field and the life he might
                    have enjoyed in the distant—and particularly to Johnson—glorious U.S.A. It was
                    not long after his arrival in the Philippines, on March 27, 1899, that Johnson laconically observed,
                    "Have had lots of hardships etc and I have come to the conclusion that Gen Sherman was
                    right when he said ‘War is hell.’"
            Will Johnson was born on a farm near Whiteland, Indiana, on December 5, 1880. His mother died when he
                    was about ten years old. The family later moved to 
                        Franklin
                     after his father had remarried. Johnson was a sophomore at 
                        Franklin
                     High School when the Spanish-American War began in April, 1898. At the end of the
                    school year, Will quit school and volunteered for military duty. He was mustered into service as a
                    private in Company E of the 158th Indiana Infantry on May 10 at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Although then only seventeen, he apparently told the military authorities that he had
                    been born on December 5, 1878, thus advancing his actual age by two years. Hostilities in the
                    Spanish-American War ended, however, before his unit ever left the mainland  of the 
                        United States
                     and Johnson was honorably discharged on November 4, 1898, when his company was mustered
                    out at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The desire to partake of military life and adventure had not been dimmed. A little over a month
                    later, on December 5, 1898 (his eighteenth birthday), Johnson volunteered at Seymour, Indiana, as a
                    private for three more years of military service. His father, hoping to see the boy finish his
                    schooling, had objected initially to this plan but eventually consented and accompanied his son to
                    the enlistment center.
            Johnson was assigned to Company K of the Twenty-Second Regiment of the 
                        United States
                     Infantry and was at once sent to Camp Crook, 
                        Nebraska
                    . On January 3, 1899, he was appointed the rank of corporal. After brief training at
                    Camp Crook, he arrived in the Philippine Islands on March 4, 1899, a month after the simmering
                    Philippine discontent toward the 
                        United States
                     had flared into open insurrection under the leadership of Aguinaldo. Less than a year
                    before, in May, 1898, when the Americans were actively engaged in war against the Spanish, Aguinaldo
                    had been returned to his homeland from exile in 
                        Hong Kong
                     to lead his followers, in conjunction with American forces, against their common enemy.
                    The Spanish had held the Philippines as a colony since the sixteenth century. Although the
                    Philippine soldiers fought well, the harmony of the relationship was short lived. Aguinaldo had
                    well-known and deeply entrenched ambitions for the independence of his country. When, in the months
                    following the capture of Manila Bay and of Manila itself, it appeared to him that the 
                        United States
                     was not willing to grant independence, relations between his forces and the 
                        United States
                     occupying forces became increasingly strained. In September, 1888, the rebel group set
                    up a government with a capital at Malolos and Aguinaldo as president. Unwilling to accept President
                    McKinley's doctrine of "benevolent assimilation," the rebel forces
                    finally came into open conflict with the American troops on February 4, 1899.1
            
            Company K and the main thrust of the American forces began fighting in the Manila area and fought
                    their way 
                  
                     1 W. Cameron Forbes, The Philippine Islands (rev.
                            ed., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1945), 36-51.
               
                     generally northeastward across the island of Luzon despite
                    delays and detours resulting from enemy resistance and barriers such as mountains, rivers, monsoons,
                    and mud. At various times the men were compelled to go without adequate rations; indeed, at the end
                    of the "Great Northern Campaign," in the fall of 1899, they were even without
                    shoes. "Well we are completely on the bum," Johnson wrote, "lots of
                    sickness from fever." Although Johnson's company was involved in several active
                    campaigns which took them great distances across the island, they spent the greatest amount of time
                    at Candaba, doing garrison duty interspersed with night raids. In July, 1899, while at Candaba,
                    Johnson resigned his rank of corporal, for reasons unexplained in the diary. One year later,
                    however, he was reappointed to that rank.
            In the spring of 1901, Aguinaldo was captured and the insurrection practically terminated. During
                    that summer, Johnson was promoted to sergeant and put in charge of a mounted detachment. In July, he
                    was ordered to Manila where he remained until his discharge on December 21, 1901. During these last
                    few months on the islands, Johnson did garrison duty, assumed the duties of company clerk, and, in
                    October, 1901, was made quartermaster sergeant in charge of the kitchen and rations. "Land
                    at last," he wrote on January 9, 1902, upon reaching 
                        San Francisco
                    , "thank God that it is the coast of 
                        California
                    … …. I thank heaven for this privilege." On January 15,
                    1902, he arrived at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , bought and donned a new suit of civilian clothes and proceeded by interurban railroad
                    to his home at 
                        Franklin
                     to become a civilian again at age twenty-one.
            Although "Three Years in the Orient" should be read and evaluated in the context of
                    the widespread imperialistic spirit prevailing at the end of the nineteenth century,
                    Johnson's account has some relevance to the current Vietnamese war. The fighting in the
                    Philippines was mainly the guerilla type, with the attendant hazards of snipers, ambushes, night
                    patrols, and uncertainty in distinguishing between friend and foe. Moreover, mountains, unbridged
                    rivers, and steamy jungles existed in the Philippines as they do in 
                        Vietnam
                    . There was even a significant number of Americans at home who had doubts about the
                    intervention in so distant an area, but such doubts were for the most part muffled by  patriotism and expressed without violence. Fortunately for the American
                    soldier, no strong power gave extensive aid to the Philippine insurrectionists or offered a serious
                    threat of possible aid.
            Upon his return to 
                        Franklin
                     in 1901 Johnson became a clerk in the 
                        Franklin
                     post office. In 1918 he joined the Farmer's Trust Company of 
                        Franklin
                    , becoming its president in 1937. He held this position until his death on March 18,
                    1952. (This bank is now known as the 
                        Franklin
                     Bank and Trust Company.) Mr. Johnson was a long and active member of the Tabernacle
                    Christian Church in 
                        Franklin
                     where he served as deacon and also as treasurer for many years. He was a Mason, a
                    charter member and first secretary of the 
                        Franklin
                     Kiwanis Club, a member of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution, and likewise of the Society of Indiana
                    Pioneers. During World War I, he served as local chairman of war bond and Salvation Army drives and
                    helped direct the USO. For more than a quarter of a century he was treasurer of the 
                        Johnson County
                     chapter of the American Red Cross. His hobbies included travel and gardening.
            The biographical information about Johnson has been gained from Mrs. Johnson, family papers, and the
                    diary itself. Facts regarding his military service have been checked with the Old Military Records
                    Division, National Archives.
            Will Johnson was married to Bess Sellers on June 27, 1906. They had two children, William S., who
                    died in 1964, and Philip S., who. now resides at 
                        Angola
                    , Indiana. The Indiana Magazine of History is grateful to Mrs. Johnson
                    for allowing the publication of this diary and for her continued interest in helping preserve
                    valuable historical documents. With her approval a Xerox copy of her husband's diary has
                    been made by the Indiana State Library. At the invitation of Governor Roger D. Branigin the diary
                    itself is to be deposited in the David D. Banta Collection at 
                        Franklin
                     College for preservation and use. Mrs. Johnson is a member of the Indiana Historical
                    Society and has been a frequent participant in the society's workshops held at
                    McCormick's Creek State Park. She now resides at the Kennedy Memorial Christian Home in
                    Martinsville.
            
            
               PLACES VISITED OR MENTIONED BY JOHNSON DURING HIS
                            MILITARY SERVICE IN THE PHILIPPINES
               
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Three Years in the Orient1
                        
                        1898
                        I left home Dec 1st 1898, and inlisted in the U.S. Army for the period of three
                                    years, on the 5th of Dec. at the city of Seymour, Ind, and by Lieut. [William
                                    Thomas] Johnston, 3rd U.S. Cav.
                        Dec 6. Left Seymour at 6:50 and proceeded to join my reg. at Fort Crook. Nebr. via 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and 
                                        Chicago
                                    
                        
                        Dec 7. Arrived at Ft. Crook at 7:OO A.M. and was assigned to Co. K 22 Infty.
                        Dec 10 My brother Gid E. paid me a visit today.
                        Dec 25 Went to Omaha and spent the day with my brother, Had a fine Xmas dinner, and
                                    at night a hot time returning to the post at 11:00 P.M.
                        1899
                        Jan 3. I was appointed a Corpl. from recruit today, a thing that is seldom done.
                        
                           
                              1 In editing this diary an effort has been made to
                                        maintain, as closely as possible, the flavor imparted to it by
                                        Johnson's own spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style. Thus, lapses
                                        in spelling and grammar have been allowed to remain as long as the meaning
                                        remains clear. Some abbreviations have been spelled out in brackets for the sake
                                        of clarity. Johnson often used commas at the ends of sentences rather than
                                        periods, and periods sometimes occur in the middle of sentences. These
                                        idiocyncracies have not been corrected. Likewise, parentheses and quotation
                                        marks which were incomplete have been left. The occasional use of a capital
                                        letter in the middle of a sentence has also been maintained. When no punctuation
                                        at all occurs at the end of a sentence, a space has been inserted. In those
                                        cases where it has been impossible to determine which mark was intended, modern
                                        usage has prevailed. Some decisions regarding punctuation, capitalization, and
                                        spacing were necessarily arbitrary. In its original form, the diary was
                                        handwritten in a small, ruled, paperbound notebook. (See photos, pp. 284, 295)
                                        No attempt has been made to reproduce the document line for line, although the
                                        author's apparent paragraphs have been maintained. Johnson used a
                                        variety of formats for dates, times, etc. The following items have been
                                        standardized: all raised numbers or letters have been brought down to the line;
                                        all flourishes or embellishments have been removed; the spacing of the first
                                        line of each entry has been standardized; obvious repetition of words or phrases
                                        has been deleted; times are presented in the modern form. The full names of
                                        individuals have been provided when first mentioned wherever possible. The
                                        source for enlisted men was the National Archives Old Military Records Division;
                                        for officers, Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionav of the 
                                            United States
                                         Amy (
                                            Washington
                                        , 1903). Those who could not be identified are noted by the letters
                                        U.I. in brackets. The correct spelling of place names is also provided the first
                                        time a place is mentioned. The Pronouncing Gazetteer and
                                            Geographical Dictionary of the Philippine Islands (
                                            Washington
                                        , 1902) was used to check these names. The map which accompanies the
                                        article on p. 267 is useful in following Johnson's travels in the
                                        Philippines. Place names which could not be identified are indicated by U.I. in
                                        brackets. Only figures and items of general historical interest are identified
                                        or explained in footnotes. Thanks are due Herman Viola, formerly assistant
                                        editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, for doing much of the preliminary
                                        editing and research for this document and to Professor John C. Dowling,
                                        chairman of the Spanish Department at Indiana University, 
                                            Bloomington
                                        , for his help in translating Spanish words and phrases. Professor
                                        Don C. Bennett, chairman of the Geography Department at Indiana University, 
                                            Bloomington
                                        , was extremely helpful in providing the map used in this
                                    article.
                        
                        
                        Jan 22 Was at Omaha again today, Had a good time.
                        27. The Regiment has reed orders to proceed to 
                                        San Francisco
                                     enroute to the Philippine Islands, All are very happy as we start
                                    today.
                        28th. We are somewhere near 
                              Topeka,
                                            Kansas
                           , It is not so
                                    cold here, as it was at Crook.
                        29—Finds us at 
                                        Colorado
                                     Springs at the base of Pikes Peak— I wrote several letters
                                    and mailed them here. We will strike the Rocky Mts tonight
                        31st—This morning we passed out of the mts. and glided into 
                                        California
                                    , out of the cold and snow, into sunshine. It is so pleasant and the air
                                    is so balmy is seems like spring time—everthing green. We passed through
                                    Eldorado Co. the great gold mine region, at noon passed through Sacremento [sic] the Capitol All along the route the people turned out to see
                                    the boys in blue, in great style, We probably will reach Frisco this afternoon
                        Feb 1st We are now on board the good ship "Senator" and are passing
                                    out of the "Golden Gate" into the mighty Pacific leaving behind,
                                    home, Country and fond remembrances. We were escorted down the Bay by hundreds of
                                    craft amid tremendous cheering and music ashore.
                        Our band is playing the "Girl I left behind and "Auld Lang
                                    Syne"
                        2nd—Water, Water everwhere no land in sight, the sea is perfectly calm.
                        
                        3rd The sea is rather "choppy" today and I notice that several of
                                    the lads are running to the rail quite frequently with a sickly expression on their
                                    faces. Last night corp'l [George A.] Abbot Co "D" fell
                                    overboard and was lost, the sea was running so high and the night was so dark that
                                    rescue was impossible.
                        9th Land—We can see the outlines of Molaki [Molokai], the island where the
                                    lepers are Kept. Passing steadily on we soon can see the Devils Punch Bowl2 on the island of Oahu one of the Sandwiches [Hawaiian Islands]
                        In another hour we are in the harbor of Honolulu. I believe this is the prettiest
                                    place I have ever seen, especially the flowers and etc.
                        The famous battleship "
                                        Oregon
                                    "3 and the U.S. Crusier
                                    "Philidelphia" [sic] are lying in the harbor.
                        11th Today I explored the entire city and "seen all the sights" Had
                                    a dilightful time. Went out on the "dinky" railroad to Claus
                                    Sprickle [Spreckels]4 sugar plantations and refinery about 40
                                    miles in the interior.
                        12th Was ashore again to-day—Went through Queen Liess palace. I also
                                    mailed several letters today
                        13th—at 3:30 P.M. we weighed anchor and slowly steamed out of the harbor
                                    bound for Manila, We now can barely see land, by night we will be entirely out of
                                    sight of land.
                        22d Today is Washingtons Birthday and in mid-oceon. We are beginning to get tired of
                                    the oceon and the want of exercise is beginning to tell upon the men.
                        March 2—Last night being dark everbody was surprised to see a great light
                                    ahead. As we approached it, we seen 
                              
                                 2 This is probably the extinct volcano known as
                                            "Punchbowl," located near Honolulu.
                              
                                 3 The USS 
                                                    Oregon
                                                
                                  sailed thousands of miles from 
                                                San Francisco
                                             to Key West, 
                                                Florida
                                            , around Cape Horn in record time to join the American fleet in
                                            defending 
                                                Florida
                                             from possible attack by the Spanish. The voyage increased
                                            public awareness of the need for a canal across the Isthmus of Panama.
                              
                                 4 Persons interested in Spreckel's career
                                            might enjoy reading the recently published book by Jacob Adler, Claus Spreckels: The Sugar King in 
                                                    Hawaii
                                                
                                  (Honolulu, 1966).
                              
                                 5 Queen Liliuokalani, last reigning queen of the
                                            Hawaiian Islands, was dethroned in 1893.
                           
                                     that it was an active volcano, standing alone
                                    in mid oceon. and sending fire and smoke high in the air. It was a great spectacle.
                                    The Capt. of the ship told us we were getting close to our destination.
                        Mch 4th We sighted land again today It is the northern coast of Luzon, the largest
                                    island of the Phil. [ippine] group. Running slowly down the coast we at last
                                    approach the entrance to Manila Bay, entering we steam eastward toward Manila, and
                                    drop anchor at 4 P.M. Our long journey has come to an end, after a sail of 27 days.
                                    Within a stones throw of the "Senator" the
                                    "Olympia" ([Admiral George]Dewey's flagship) is at
                                    anchor.
                        I seen Dewey as we came to anchor, He was standing on the bridge. We are about 1/2
                                    mile away from shore, as the water is too shallow to allow a great ship to come
                                    closer. Great excitement prevails aboard as we are told that the Filipinos have
                                    turned against the Am[ericans]— and that there has been hard fighting
                                    since the outbreak on Feb 4th.
                        A while ago the monitor "Monterey" came up to the
                                    "Olympia" and rec'd orders I persume [sic] and now she is bombarding some town on the bay, with her 13 inch guns
                                    Whew! but those big shells tear up the ground and send the houses into the air.
                                    —We all drew 100 rounds of Ammunation today.
                        5th—We disembarked today and are camped along the beach on the Luneta, The
                                    Filipino is a heathen looking thing half-nude and so lazy he can hardly walk
                        I have not been in the town proper yet. The sudden change from cold to extreme heat
                                    is the most noticeable.
                        6th We broke camp and marched down the Luneta (the fashionable driveway) to Malate, a
                                    suberb of the city, and were assigned to barracks, which are built of bamboo and
                                    covered with nipa, a Kind of palm-leaf. they are very cool and
                                    comfortable
                        7th Was up in the city today and also seen the sights in the old Walled city. which
                                    is surrounded by a thick wall and was many years ago one of the best fortified
                                    cities of the world.
                        
                        Manila is very queer and quaint looking, with its narrow streets and low
                                    buildings—Ever nationality is represented here
                        10th Today I went over to Cavite and seen the ships of the Spaniards that Dewey had
                                        sunk.6
                        
                        12th We marched out of Manila amid the playing of bands, to a place called San Pedro
                                    Macarti about 4 miles east. The insurgents are only 1/2 mile away, their outpost and
                                    ours can almost speak to each other
                        13th The line advanced today and here was the place I had my baptism of fire We
                                    fought all day, driving the rebels before us and across the Pasig Riv.7
                        
                        Corp'l [
                                        Wayne
                                     P.] Munson Co. K. was killed instantly, We were complimented by Gen
                                    [Loyd] Wheaton for our coolness, and it being the first time that many of us were
                                    under fire
                        20th Returned to Manila after a weeks hard campaigning Pvt. [August] Schmidt was shot
                                    in the arm during the last engagement.
                        24th Started on the expedition against Mololos [Malolos], the capitol of the
                                    insurgents It is situated 30 miles up the Manila and Dagupan R.R. the only one in
                                    the islands.
                        We marched out to Caloocan and relieved the 
                                        Montana
                                     Vols who were entrenched and holding the rebels off from the city
                        They took another position on the right flank with the artillery
                        25th At Daybreak the lines advanced toward the rebel's position who were
                                    well entrenched, after about an hours fighting they retreated in disorder across the
                                    River to another set of trenches.
                        The 
                                        Utah
                                     Battery shelled them all afternoon but did not dislodge them 
                              
                                 6 On May 1, 1898, Admiral George Dewey destroyed the
                                            Spanish fleet in Manila Bay. Cavite, the central city of the province of the
                                            same name, is located on the east shore of Manila Bay. See map on p. 267.
                              
                                 7 As the map indicates, the Pasig
                                            River divides Manila into two parts.
                           
                                     26th Mr Rebel is still across the river at day
                                    light.
                        The 22 Infty went down the river and crossed it about a mile below, and then came up
                                    the river again. It was a fine flank movement which completely routed the enemy for
                                    the time being. As later on in the day we encountered him at Malinta
                                    hill. They were in an old stone wall which was on a high hill, They
                                    opened up on us before we were aware of their whereabouts, We could not dislodge
                                    them so it became necessary for a charge which Co K and A gave them, they held their
                                    ground well untill we ran almost over them, when they broke and ran up the R.R.
                                    toward 
                                        Polo
                                     leaving about 250 dead upon the field. We lost our gallant Colonel
                                    [Harry C.] Egbert at this fight
                        27th Have driven the insurgents steadily forward almost to their Cap.[ital] which we
                                    expect to enter soon. Have had lots of hardship etc and I have come to the
                                    conclusion that Gen [William Tecumseh] Sherman was right when he said "War
                                    is hell."8
                        
                        29th Mololos has fallen. We entered the place with but slight resistance. the rebels
                                    went out as we came in. and by the looks of things they went in a hurry. They set
                                    fire to the place before they left though. We came near capturing the train that was
                                    bearing Agunaldo [Aguinaldo] out.
                        Apl 1st—Returned to Manila by rail as the Engineer Corp had repaired the
                                    road as we had advanced. The regiments that had participated in the campaign of
                                    Mololos were the 22nd U.S. Infty, 3rd U.S. Infty. 3rd U.S. Art, 4 troops 4th U.S.
                                    Cav. 1st Nebr. Vols., 20th Kan. Vols. 
                                        Montana
                                     Vols, 2nd 
                                        Oregon
                                     Vols, and the 10th Penn. Vols, and 
                                        Utah
                                     Battery
                        Apl 5th Today we went out to Pasay trenches to relieve the 14th Infty which is going
                                    up on the Laguna de Bay (lake) to take a rebel stronghold Santa Cruz.
                        19th Return to Manila after 14 days of vigilance—We were attacked most
                                    ever night by the rebs We are under 
                              
                                 8 General William Tecumseh Sherman is reputed to have
                                            made this famous remark in an address to the graduating class at the 
                                                Michigan
                                             Military Academy, June 19, 1879.
                           
                                     orders to prepare for a long Campaign through
                                    the center of Luzon.
                        21st—We left Manila (for good) with a force comprising the 22 Infty, 3rd
                                    U.S. Infty. 4th U.S. Cav. 1st 
                                        Oregon
                                     Vol. 2nd Ore. Vol., 13th Minn. Vol. 1st N. Da. Vol. part of the 6th
                                    U.S. Art. and two Bats of Utahs, Maj. Gen [Henry Ware] Lawton is in command of the
                                    expedition
                        22nd We had an engagement at Novelitche [Novaliches] 15 miles Northeast of Manila.
                        28.th—After hard marching we arrived at Angot [Angat] about 40 miles from
                                    Manila. We are without rations and it is raining most all the time. I am in charge
                                    of the kitchen such as it is We have one Boiler and two kettles and a large
                                    pan— the rest has been lost. A native guide lost us on purpose yesterday,
                                    but he lost his life for it. Foraging is in order now too, but the country has been
                                    pretty well cleaned by the insurgents.
                        May 4. An amnesty has been declared so we are still waiting for the result while the
                                    "rehs" are building more trenches
                        5th The treaty is off and today we advanced toward Bustos a stronghold of insurrectos
                                    Will take it tomorrow perhaps with a sharp "scrap."9
                        
                        6th Bustos is taken after a hard fight, the day was so hot and sultry that several
                                    men were exhausted and are in a pitiful condition.
                        7th We crossed the Ipo River today and entered Baliway [Baliuag]
                                    with but slight resistance We found lots of fine old wine at this place.
                        15th After a weeks good rest and with full supplies we left Baliway today and struck
                                    out farther into the wilds. Most all the villages are deserted a sure sign of the
                                    enemy
                        16. We passed through the city of San Miguel de Mayuma [Mayurno] today, the Division
                                    Scouts took the town which shows that the enemy is somewhat demorilized
                        San Miguel is a beautiful town at the base of a mountain range 
                              
                                 9 No information has been found concerning an amnesty
                                            during the insurrection.
                           
                                     17th We pressed rapidly onward in the hopes of
                                    reaching San Isidro in time to rescue about 20 Americans among them is Lieut. [J.
                                    C.] Gilmore off the "Yorktown", but we were too late for the
                                    insurgents had moved them and barely stopped long enough to fight. This (San Isidro)
                                    has been the Capitol since Malolos fell, I wonder where they moved it to this time,
                                    We are about 100 miles from Manila now.
                        19th Still we advance; leaving San Isidro we had but gone about 5 miles untill we ran
                                    into an ambuscade
                        They (rebels) killed 7 of our men before they ran away but leaving a few dead
                                    themselves. We made Cabio [Cabiao] tonight we are traveling westward now toward the
                                    railroad where Gen. [Arthur] Macarthur is operating.10 The
                                    object of our expedition is to keep the insurgents from retreating east to the mts.
                                    While Mcarthur is pounding them along the R.R.
                        20th. Are in Arayat tonight here we met the 9th and 17th Infty who have not been on
                                    the islands long
                        We are in the Pampanga Province now which is not so hostile.
                        21.st Still marching down the Rio Grande [de la Pampanga] river. we arrive at the
                                    town of Candaba of perhaps 20,000 inhabitants
                        The main town is on the opposite side of the river
                        27th Hdqrs Co K. F. I and G. "A" and "E" are
                                    assigned to garrison Candaba, so here ends our long campaign in which we had so many
                                    hardships to endure such as hunger, exposure to the elements and fatigue
                        We traversed over 200 miles in 36 days through an unknown and hostile country, part
                                    of the time flooded, crossing swollen rivers etc. We were not allowed to sleep in
                                    the deserted houses at night for fear of disease
                        June 1st The people are coming back rapidly to their homes they had left, upon the
                                    approach of the Americanos and are surprised to find us like ordinary human beings,
                                    they were told by the rebels that we were horrible look- 
                              
                                 10 Brigadeer General Arthur MacArthur served as
                                            military governor of the Philippines, 1900-1901. He was the father of
                                            General Douglas MacArthur.
                           
                                     ing things, that we ravished
                                    the women, killed the children and put to death all the men. and that we lived upon
                                    dead Filipinos
                        July 4 Everthing is peaceful here. we have nothing but garrison duty. The natives are
                                    very friendly and delight in comparing us with the hated Spaniard that treated them
                                    so cruelly. It is very disagreeable at this time on account of the excessive
                                    rainfall, It rains all the time and has been for a month, all the country is a lake,
                                    the streets are knee deep in mud, no sidewalks, Everthing goes to make one sigh for
                                    the U.S. We had a kind of a celebration today but it was rather slim.11
                        
                        10th Last night I was in command of outpost #15 along the river and was attacked just
                                    at taps (9). There were only four of us but we gave them magizine fire untill
                                    assistance arrived. Nobody was hurt, we learned this morning that we hit a few of
                                    the foe.
                        We learn that Arayat and San Isidro are full of "Gugus",12 We captured those towns in May but did not garrison them
                        12 The same routine of duty, Pvt. Hauck [U. I.] died in Manila of Dysentary
                        20.th I resigned today—Slight difficulty the cause. Four Corporals
                                    resigned together [
                                        Warren
                                     S.] Day, [William H.] Thomas, [William R.] Johnson and [Clemens]
                                        New-baner.13
                        
                        30.th No excitement, regular duty rather monotonous. We envy the Volunteers as they
                                    are all going home.
                        Sept 20 Today we reconoitered in the direction of Santa Ana It was reported that a
                                    band of rebels were there, but after wading four miles through water up to our
                                    armpits, we found it was all a fake.
                        
                           
                              11 For a description of various Fourth of July
                                        celebrations by Americans in foreign countries, see Robert Pettus Hay,
                                        " ‘Thank God We Are Americans': Yankees Abroad On
                                        The Fourth of July," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                        LXIII (June, 1967), 115-23.
                           
                              12 "Gugus" is a slang term meaning a
                                        Filipino soldier or insurrector.
                           
                              13 Despite references to this incident in the diary, here
                                        and on p. 283, further details concerning Johnson's resignation of his
                                        rank have not been found.
                        
                        
                        Oct 5 It has ceased raining, and today we managed to get up the river about 5 miles
                                    and drive out a gang of rebels that were in an old sugar mill. Had quite an
                                    engagement for a few minutes. The river gunboats "
                                        Florida
                                    " and Oeste did some great bombarding with their one-inch and
                                    rapid fire guns. One man of "F" Co. was slightly wounded in the
                                    arm.
                        Oct 12. Today Co's
                                    "F,""A,""I,"
                                    and"K," left station in full marching order, and proceeded up the
                                    river to join Gen. [Samuel Baldwin M.] Young's Brigade, and assist in the
                                    attack upon Arayat
                        We arrived there at 11 A.M. but we were too late as the town had been taken at 10
                                    A.M. by the 24th Infty (colored)
                        Troops are congregating here, so I guess there is another vigorous campaign on foot.
                        Oct 15 We were "bombarded" last night by the rebels with an old
                                    smooth-bore cannon. They fired 11 shots with it, without effect.
                        Today a troop of the 4th Cav. went out and captured it.
                        17th At 5 P.M. we left Arayat accompanied by the 3rd and 4th U.S. Cavalry, the 24th
                                    Infty, and about 200 Macabees [Macabebes]14
                        
                        Went into camp at dusk I know we are into it again
                        18th We broke camp at daylight and advanced toward Cabias with the Macabebees ahead
                                    who engaged the enemy about a mile from Cabias, but the rebels were soon on the
                                    "hike" leaving about 20 dead, besides we captured several officers
                                    and 25 "bucks"
                        Oct 19 Today has been the hardest and most trying day I have ever exeprienced shortly
                                    after we left Cabias, we encountered the enemy, and from there untill we reached San
                                    Isidro, It was a running fight all the way 
                              
                                 14 The Macabebes (or Makabebes) were a tribe of
                                            natives in Pampanga Province who had been loyal to the Spanish and who later
                                            allied themselves with the Americans during the insurrection. See James Le
                                            Roy, The Americans in the Philippines (2 vols., 
                                                Boston
                                             and N.Y., 1914), I, 96, 200; 11, 123.
                           
                                     the niggers were firing from houses, treetops
                                    and in fact from everwhere.15
                        
                        We done the same thing and of course we kept them going, but it was hard work
                                    "K," Co. lost 1 man killed and 1 man wounded. Cpl. [Ephraim S.]
                                    Yoder was killed by a misplaced shell from one of our mountain guns.
                        This is the town we took last May but did not garrison. Gen Lawton is in command of
                                    the expedition now. He is alright especially for the 22nd.
                        Oct 27 After waiting several days for rations etc, to come up, the entire command
                                    left San Isidro this morning and started northward.
                        About 6 miles marching from Isidro we found the rebels again, this time they were
                                    entrenched across a small stream, which kept us from giving them a charge.
                                    "K" Co, under [John Watts] Hannay, creeped up as close as we could
                                    get in the high grass, and succeeded in surprising them, After about 1 hrs hard
                                    fighting they left their trenches running for their lives.
                        We went into Santa Rosa about an hours afterward.
                        This days fight cost K. Co the life of Pvt. [Axwell B.] Stone, and the wounding of
                                    Corpl [Charles F.] Sparger, from which he probably will not recover. The rest of the
                                    outfit did not have a man hurt.
                        Oct 30. We left Santa Rosa today Was advance guard again the same as usual. the Cav.
                                    always takes the rear Arrived at Cabanatuan about 10 A.M. without resistance. This
                                    is the place where Gen [Antonio] Luna was stabbed by Aguinalda a few months ago.16
                        
                        Nov 2. Today the scouts captured a powder mill and arsenal It was a rude affair. We
                                    are waiting here on account 
                              
                                 15 Some of the native tribes encountered by American
                                            forces were very dark skinned but it is unlikely that they were actually
                                            Negroes.
                              
                                 16 General Antonio Luna, leading military strategist
                                            in the early stages of the revolution, was Aguinaldo's secretary of
                                            war at the time of his death. His sharp temper and violent nature earned him
                                            many enemies among the other revolutionary leaders. Although his death is
                                            still a controversial matter in Philippine history, it is known that
                                            Aguinaldo received a telegram at Cabanatuan from Luna on June 3, requesting
                                            an interview but he left the next day for San Isidro without replying. When
                                            Luna arrived, he was stabbed and then shot by Aguinaldo's guards.
                                            For further details see Gregorio F. Zaide, The Philippine
                                                Revolution (Manila, 1954), 320-21.
                           
                                     of the heavy rains, which have made the country
                                    impassable.
                        Nov 5 Several men have been drowned at the river, in building a ferry for the
                                    expedition to cross on. They have it almost completed.
                        Nov. 8 Left Cabanatuan today after dinner. We had hard work getting across the river
                                    which is still high. Lt Hannay is left behind to operate ferry. Sgt. [Robert] Maney
                                    is in command of Company. We reached the small town of Talavera at sundown. The
                                    Cavalry had taken it, as they are ahead, We are "hiking" the legs
                                    off us, try to keep up.
                        10 Today we lost the trail and now are off our course at a place called Noonah [U.
                                    I.], Have been traveling for two days through long high grass, It is very sloppy
                                    too, The mts are not so very far away as we can see them plainly, We know by that,
                                    that we are getting pretty far north.
                        Nov. 11. Today we reached San Jose (Hoza) after considerable work in finding our
                                    right road. Our Battalion is all alone now. As the Cavalry, under Gen Young is far
                                    ahead, and pressing Aggie [Aguinaldo] hard.
                        13th After two days marching we have reached Humingan [Humigan], are out of rations,
                                    so we have to live off the country.
                        15th The rest of the Batt. has gone ahead toward Rosalea to "head
                                    off" Aggie "K." Co is here alone waiting for Lt. Hannay
                                    and the supplie train to come up.
                        We are on the lookout for the insurgents as they are surrounded and no doubt
                                    desparate If they strike us it may go hard with us too.
                        We are about starved as there is nothing to eat but rice and "de
                                    mulog" no hard tack or coffee Havent even salt.17
                        
                        18. Today Lt Hannay came up with the bull-train with plenty of rations and tobacco.
                                    What a treat: 
                              17"De mulog" is probably mule meat.
                           
                                     19th. We left today going toward Rosales
                                    arriving there at dark. The 34th Vols are here, but our outfit has gone ahead.
                        20 We crossed the Big Agno river with the train and started on
                                    in the hopes of catching the Battalion, K. Co. bull-train and all are liable to get
                                    captured. I hope not
                        After traveling all day we arrived at Urdnenata [Urdaneta] with out seeing the Batt,
                                    but the natives said they had passed through there two days before, going toward
                                    Binalonan
                        21st We pulled out at daybreak and had gone probably 6 miles when we met Maj [John
                                    Green] Ballance and the Battalion. They were out of rations too and had come back to
                                    look for us. They were under orders also to go back to Urdeneta and then go westward
                                    and try to find the R.R. and join Macarthur.
                        22d We found the country, off the road, so flooded that we had to abandon that idea
                                    of getting to the R.R. and again proceeded toward the north coast our original
                                    distination
                        23.rd Arrived in Binolonan today after a forced march F. Co. has the train now. We
                                    hear that Gen Young has played havoc with Guinaldo and his contingent
                        Several men have broke down and are unable to go any farther. I am allright yet. We
                                    are only 20 miles from the coast.
                        24. Arrived at San Jacinto today. Seen 300 dead niggers that Gen Wheaton had killed
                                    We Met the 33rd Vols. here They had the nerve to ask us when we landed etc. They
                                    have only been on the island two weeks Aguinaldo's Mother, Wife, and Child
                                    are here, they were captured close by.18
                        
                        25 Leaving San Jacinto we proceed toward the coast town of San Fabian, we seen the
                                    smoke of the transports long before we arrived there—We reached San
                                    Fabian about 12 oclock and the first thing we done was to take a bath in the surf of
                                    the 
                                        China
                                     Sea.
                        
                           
                              18 Aguinaldo himself was not captured until March 23,
                                        1901, when he was taken by General Frederick Funston at Cabanatuan.
                        
                        
                        We are a ragged lot of men, no shoes Well we are completely on the bum. Lots of
                                    sickness from fever.
                        Nov 31. [30] Today is Thanksgiving We had hard tack and boiled beans for dinner, 3
                                    men have died in the hospital and all the Co. is more or less sick. Not a hell of a
                                    lot to be thankful for.
                        Dec 3. Those that could walk started for Dagupan. 8 miles down the coast, and the
                                    terminal of the R.R.
                        Those that could not walk were hauled in ambulances and bull carts It was a sorrowful
                                    looking outfit but as the ladies say, heros
                        Dec 4. We reached Dagupan last night. I had a slight attack of fever but am alright
                                    today. This morning we got on the train (flat cars) that had been collected out of
                                    the differents wrecks, and started down the railway toward Manila 165 miles away.
                                    Had to walk 5 miles from Byombang [Bayambang] to Tarloe [Tarlac]. over a washout.
                                    Will stay in Tarloe tonight
                        Dec 5 Today is my 19th birthday, Have only made a few miles today as the track is
                                    torn up, so we have to walk. I believe today is the hottest I have ever seen
                        Dec 6th A fine train met us at Mabalacat and took us to San Fernando Here we received
                                    orders to return overland to Candaba, old Candaba—We are rather
                                    dissapointed for we were in hopes we would go to Manila and have a good rest.
                        The company left this afternoon for Candaba, I am left at San Fernando. Have a sore
                                    foot and can hardly walk.
                        Dec 15 I joined my company today, so here ends the hardest campaign that ever has
                                    been made upon the island, having been out 60 days and marched about 360 miles.
                        During that time, we were on half ration several times and for 4 days did not have
                                    any. Excessive rain to contend with and terrific heat.
                        The Co. lost 13 men killed and died. About half of the Co. is in the hospitals.
                        The people of Candaba are very glad to have us back with them, they gave us a grand
                                    welcome in their own "bloomin" way of course.
                        
                        Dec 25 This is Christmas, but it does not seem like Xmas at all. I guess it is
                                    because the snow and cold is lacking. We had a pretty fair dinner of Roast Beef
                                    (Australian) Baked Chicken, Cabbage, Tomatoes, Corn, Peas[,] Cranberry Sause, Pies
                                    and Cake, and washed it all down with two barrells of Schlitz's beer.
                                    Everbody is getting rested now, and the company is looking more like it did before
                                    the Great Northern Campaign
                        1900
                        Feb 19. Last night 50 men of the company including myself, got up and left the town
                                    silently and went to a town, about 11 miles east called Mondeli [Mandili], We
                                    reached there about four oclock in the morning and surrounded the place capturing 50
                                    insurgents and two American horses, We wounded two of the rebels but there were few
                                    shots fires as they were surprised and surrounded, and knew if they made any
                                    resistance we would kill them all.
                        Feb 26, Last night the Co. made a secret night march southward to several small towns
                                    but did not find any "gugud’.
                        Mch 4. Today we have been upon the island one Year.
                        Apl 10. My comrade Paul Fox [U. I.] was drowned in the river last night It seems
                                    strange that he should drown for he was the most expert swimmer in the company We
                                    are doing ordinary garrison duty and taking things easy
                        May 20 I have returned from Manila on pass, I had a glorious time and did in fact
                                    recuperate
                        Manila is quite Americanized now—I purchased some flowers to decorate
                                    Fox's grave
                        May 30 This is Memorial day— During the afternoon the town caught fire,
                                    the wind was rather strong therefore the eastern part of the town is in ruins and
                                    about $20,000 worth of property has been destroyed
                        The houses of the natives are so dry, and built of bamboo, grass and palmleaves, that
                                    they catch fire easily. One house (common) is valued at about $10.00
                        Three drunken soldiers of "My’ Co. are said to have set the first
                                    house on fire, because the occupants refused to give them "beno"
                                    [a type of wine] the native drink
                        
                        June 8 Company went to Arayat today to relieve Co "E" which is
                                    going to the mountains with Gen. [Frederick] Funston, they probably will be gone
                                    several days
                        14th Returned to Candaba today through a blinding rainstorm which is very likely to
                                    be the beginning of the rainy season- Had a good time at Arayat, It broke the
                                    monotony at least.
                        July 4th This is our second Fourth in the Phillippines but as there are only two
                                    companies here now, everthing is about quiet as usual.
                        July 20 I was appointed corp'l again, just a year since I resigned-I have
                                    been clerking in the office but now I expect I will do straight duty
                        Aug 8. A party of 25 including myself embarked last night in small boats, with native
                                    boatmen and paddled across country to Mondeli, We did not wear shoes—When
                                    we arrived there the party divided and scoured the country in different directions
                                    1st Sergt. Maney, Pots [Albert C. Potter], [Gillis] Green, [Joseph Kolal] Kalal and
                                    [Lindon] Herberg came across some of the insurgents, and had to retreat to us, they
                                    barely escaped capture.
                        Sept 5th The rainy season is on now in full blast.
                        Last night a typhoon struck the town, and the wind blew so hard that all our quarters
                                    were blohrn down-We had time to get out of them, but all our clothes were damaged by
                                    the rain and mud.
                        We took refuge in the convent untill morning, when we moved our property to the
                                    convent in with "M." Co.
                        The country is nothing but a huge lake, We go through the streets in boats and on
                                    rafts.
                        Sept 12 Three days ago "M" and "K" Co were
                                    relieved by "B" Co 41st Vols. We went to San Miguel in cascos
                                    across the country, S. M. is about 14 miles southeast, We came back to Candaba
                                    today.
                        It was a hard trip as we were so cramped in the cascos (barges)
                        We had natives to pole us over the water.
                        
                        
                           PAGE 44 OF JOHNSON'S DIARY FOR PRINTED VERSION SEE P. 283
                        
                        
                        Sept 25—"M" Co. has left Candaba leaving us all alone.
                        I would not be surprised if we moved up the river farther very soon.
                        Oct 4. After being here in Candaba for over one year and a half, we have been ordered
                                    to move up in the province of Nueva Excija [Ecija].
                        We are all sorry to leave, and the people are trying their best to get the order
                                    revoked.
                        The Alcalde [mayor] has wired Gen. Macarthur
                        5th We left old Candaba this morning for the last time. We arrived at Arayat about
                                    noon, and were paid soon after Everbody is pretty well tooted up.
                        Oct 6. Arrived at Cabias today Will stop here over night with "H"
                                    Co. Everbody is still tanked.
                        Oct 7. Arrived at San Isidro about noon, and were assigned to the post of Jaen, two
                                    miles north.
                        
                           We stopped in San I. for a couple of hours.
                           Here I met James Willis from 
                                            Franklin
                                        
                           
                           He inlisted in June and is in Co B, 22 Inf.
                           He is the first man I have seen from Johnson Co.19
                           
                        
                        13th We are doing scouting duty—no guard "A" Co. does
                                    that—The roads are still knee deep with mud. Last night the Co. went out
                                    and re-captured two men of the 24th Inf. that had been held prisoners for a long
                                    while
                        We marched all night in mud and water above our knees. In the little scrap that
                                    followed one of the American Negros were killed, the other we brought in, along with
                                    a few rifles.
                        27. A detachment of Co K captured 27 rifles last night- considerable ammunation was
                                    also found.
                        Nov 1. More scouting for the deserter and traitor Fagan [U. I.], I think he has left
                                    this parts, for we are making things very uncomfortable for the rebels in this
                                    vicinity. But it takes lots of hard "hiking" to keep them
                                    scattered.
                        Nov. 23 I went to Manila on pass, Had a fine time. Manila is still the same old
                                    place.
                        
                           
                              19 No specific biographical information about Willis has
                                        come to light.
                        
                        
                        I returned the 27 in time for a good Thanksgiving dinner.20
                        
                        Dec 5 This is my 20th Birthday and a big celebration—a dark brown taste in
                                    the morning. I am in my last year of Service now.
                        25. Christmas again, I rec'd a few presents, but did not send any as they
                                    probably would never reach Manila, let alone the 
                                        United States
                                    
                        
                        Had an excellent Xmas dinner.
                        1901
                        Jany 1st Last night as the Old Year went out and the New came in, I was out with a
                                    detachment of 25 searching for a noted outlaw and Lt. Col. of the guerillas. Part of
                                    us were dressed in Filipino clothes, We searched all the houses between Jaen and San
                                    Antonio, but failed to get him.
                        Several recruits have just joined the Co.
                        I feel for them if they have to stay here three years.
                        5th Our new Captian has taken command of the company. He has just arrived from the
                                    U.S.
                        Lt. Hannay, who has been in command of "K’ troop for about 18
                                    months, has taken command of the river Gunboat
                                    "Napindan"—We are sorry to see him go.
                        19. 50 men of Co. left station today and went to the mountains-I suppose it is purely
                                    a scouting expedition.
                        22 The town of Jaen was threatened today by the gugus. they swore they would burn it
                                    down, I guess it was another big bluff.
                        29 The 50 men returned today-they look as if they had had a hard time of it and I
                                    think they did by what they say. Gen Funston "buscowed" [searched]
                                    the mts. but did not find but few insurrectos.
                        Feby 8— The Company moved from Jaen to Gapan Nueva Ecija. We are much
                                    pleased as it is a much better location 
                              
                                 20 This entry obviously was not written on the date
                                            given for it. No other definite instance of this practice has been found,
                                            however.
                           
                                     10th Are nicely located in the convent at Gapan
                                    Ever-thing is mucha beuno" [very good]
                        12 Today I turned over to the Military Prison nine native prisoners
                        Was in charge of one escort wagon and 15 men- Coming back we had a fine time-
                        20 The company has received 20 American horses for scouting purposes. I am detailed
                                    as a Scout. Sergt [William H.] Thomas is in charge
                        23 Today myself and 5 men rode about two miles and arrested 12 hombres [men] for
                                    running a "whitting" game.21
                        
                        25 Last night the scouts were up the entire night, We made two trips to the barrio22 of San Lazaro, midway between Gapan and Panaranda
                                    [Pafiaranda]. We searched all the shacks but did not find any thing
                        26 We are orgainzing [sic] the Good Time Club I suppose there will be about 50
                                    members
                        28 Today is Muster and Monthly inspection I wish it was over with There is plenty of
                                    "trabajor" [work] about this scouting business.
                        March 1st Myself and five men, Pvts [Kelly] Lawson, [Robert J.] Reed, [Thomas F.]
                                    Wirth, [Grant] Hokomb and Potter captured one insurgent officer and one pvt. also 3
                                    rifles and some ammunation. We had Jose, a native guide with us.
                        2nd Was out today with 14 native prisoners cutting "nipa" to cover
                                    the stable.
                        5th I and 5 men escorted the Captian to San Isidro last night— He came
                                    home with his usual jag on.
                        7 All the M. D's. were out last night searching of Jose, he robbed Lieut
                                    [David Porter] Wheeler at Jaen and was supposed to be trying to connect with
                                    "Gen" [Urbano] Lacuna, we did not catch him.23
                        
                        
                           
                              21 A "Whitting game" and "3 and
                                        a butte" (mentioned on p. 290) are probably gambling games.
                           
                              22 A barrio is the smallest unit of population center in
                                        the Philippines. It is usually an agricultural village or mining community.
                           
                              23 General Lacuna was a member of Aguinaldo's
                                        forces.
                        
                        
                        10th I have been "under the weather" for the last three days but am
                                    feeling better at the present writing.
                        17 I was over to Manieling [Manichin] to day with 6 men to escort a pack-train down
                                    to San Isidro.
                        21 The entire Mounted Detachment was called out today to escort two ambulances to a
                                    place in the mts which were to convey 13 wounded men down to a dressing station.
                                    From all appearances the Maccabebens received a severe drubbing at the hands of Gen
                                    Lacuna's outfit.
                        24 Myself and 6 men were up the entire night, patroling the town as it was reported
                                    to the C.O. that an attack would be made. But—"no got"
                        27 Pay day.—I escorted the paymaster to Panaranda and return trip.
                        29 A few scattering shots were fired into the Capt's qr's last
                                    night that meant hike out and "buscow."
                        31st The Cap't did not feel disposed to inspect the company today, it being
                                    the regular monthly inspection.
                        April 7th Today is Easter but it was spent far differant that [sic]
                                    those are in the U.S.
                        9th Myself and 9 men were ordered to Cabiao today to escort Gen. Funston and wife
                                    into San Isidro his Hdqr's. He is looking well after his grand-stand play
                                    of capturing "Aggie"
                        My horse threw me twice yesterday and the result is that I am some what stiff and
                                    sore today-I have not had such a hard fall in a long while.
                        16 Today 15 men of the Mtd. [Mounted] Detach escorted a Capt. Doctor over to San
                                    Miguel de Mayuma. distance 15 miles.
                        It was a pleasant trip because it took us over some places that we had fought on over
                                    two years ago.
                        20. Today I took a Rebel Lieut down to San Isidro to be tried Returned at 3:00 P.M.
                                    today
                        May 19 Today was pay day and "Gen." Lacuna surrendered here today
                                    with 200 soldiers and arms this ends all armed resistance in Northern Luzon-They all
                                    took the oath and were given their liberty.
                        
                        May 30 Memorial Day—but it does not seem like it.
                        June 3— The entire Detach. left on a two days scouting trip-A band of
                                    thiefs (ladrones) are reported to be operating in the vicinity of Santa Rosa,
                                    Manicling, and Peneranda.
                        7— The entire Detachment was called out quickly last night. We went to
                                    Papia [Papaya] in hopes of capturing Fagan the negro traitor, deserter and renegade.
                        We were accompanied by 12 of Lacunas ex-soldiers— We were in the saddle
                                    the entire night and when we arrived at Papia we found the [that] Fagan had left
                                    early in the evening for the mountains.
                        Seguro poco tiempo [for sure in a short time]
                        12th— The rainy season seems to be fairly started, as it has been raining
                                    steadily for several days.
                        All the rivers are rapidly rising and the rice fields are becoming flooded.
                        25 I was promoted to a Sergeant today.
                        26 Sergt. Thomas was relieved today, and I was placed in command of the Mounted
                                    Scouts.
                        30. Today was muster.
                        July 1st Signed the Pay-rolls today. Will be paid soon.
                        4th Today was the 3rd Fourth of July I have spent in the Phil. Isles. and in some
                                    respects it was the dullest of them all.
                        6th It is still raining very heavily but this "pueblo esse muy bueno, para
                                    mucha yubia" [this town is very good; it gets alot of rain]
                        8th I took two disabled and worn out horses to San Isidro today and exchanged them
                                    for two others in much better condition
                        It was rumored there that the 22nd was to return soon to the U.S.
                        11th Private [William S.] Sparks and myself rode out on the San Miguel trail to the
                                    Eg'n. [Engineers] Camp- They are constructing a bridge across a
                                    stream—An American bridge is a new item of civilization to the
                                    native—we also took out some mail for them.
                        
                        19 I was sent to the Hospital today to be treated for a slight attack of fever etc.
                        21 Am improving and getting along nicely.
                        25 Returned for duty today—We were also paid for the months May &
                                    June.
                        27 Prisoners Reynolds and Randell [U. I.] deserted last night, breaking out of the
                                    guard-house.
                        28. The above men were apprehended at San Miguel today.
                        30 Myself and four men are ordered to proceed to San M.[iguel] tomorrow and bring
                                    back Randell and Reynolds.
                        Aug 1st We returned from San Miguel today with the prisoners. It was an awefull trip
                                    as it was so muddy.
                        Several times our horses floundered and barely escaped miring
                        I hope we will not have another hike like that one.
                        4th, "3 and a butte" but I wish the time would pass more rapidly.
                        12 I killed one of our horses today that had been condemmed for glanders.24 It was an aweful job as I had to shoot him 8 times before he
                                    fell.
                        17. Private [Carney C.] Ryker gave an oyster supper in honor of his 31st birthday. At
                                    night I gave a dance. Everthing went along smoothly untill about 2 A.M. when we had
                                    a bit of a row but I soon quieted things down.
                        20th I was admitted to the Hospital again today Diarrhoea but not alarming
                        22 Am much better today
                        25 The company has (after 2 1/2 years service on the line) rec'd orders to
                                    pack up and proceed to Manila to do garrison duty there. Everone seems to be pleased
                                    as it is only the beginning of the end as we will no doubt be ordered to the 
                                        United States
                                     soon.
                        26. The Co. marched to Cabio today; the sick (including myself and by the way the
                                    first ambulance ride for me) 
                              
                                 24 Glanders is a highly contagious disease affecting
                                            the glands of horses and mules.
                           
                                     were transported in an ambulance. Will embark
                                    on cascos tomorrow morning.
                        27 We left Cabio this morning at 8:00 A.M. on the Gunboat "
                                        Charleston
                                    " arriving at Calumpit at 4 P.M. after an un eventful but
                                    pleasant ride down the picturesque river Rio Grande la Pampanga
                        About mid-day we passed Candaba our old stamping ground
                        28 I slept last night on board the 
                                        Charleston
                                     and at 8 A.M. a special train was in waiting whick [sic] conveyed the
                                    Battalion to Manila arriving there about noon. We im mediately marched through the
                                    city to the suberb Malate going into barracks. which are built on the beach of
                                    Manila Bay
                        29 This morning I attended sick call at the Engineers qr.'s across the
                                    street and was sent to the 1st Reserve Hospital in an ambulance. I am imformed that
                                    I am going out to Corregidor Island.25
                        
                        30. Yes I am booked for Corregidor, I left the 1st Res. at 7 A.M. and was taken to
                                    the Capts of the Ports office and placed aboard of the U. S. Launch "
                                        New Orleans
                                    "
                        Pvts [James H.] Hanks and [John B.] Showen Co K 22 Inf are also going along We left
                                    the docks at 8 A.M. and steamed down the Pasig River out into
                                    the Bay to Corregidor at the entrance of the bay. arriving there at 11:30 A.M. On
                                    the boat I met a Johnson Co. man Dr. Phipps. He is connected with the Y.M.C.A. of
                                        Manila.26
                        
                        The Bay was in a good humor so to speak so we had a pleasant voyage
                        Hanks and myself we [re] assigned to "A" Building while Showen was
                                    sent to "C" Building 
                              
                                 25 Corregidor is an island fortress at the entrance to
                                            Manila Bay. During World War II it was the last Allied stronghold in the
                                            Philippines to fall to the Japanese.
                              
                                 26 Dr. John M. Phipps, born near 
                                                Bedford
                                            , Indiana, in 1866, was both a medical doctor and an ordained
                                            minister of the Baptist church. During the Spanish-American War he served as
                                            Y.M.C.A. secretary and volunteer chaplain both on board the U.S. transport
                                            Meade and in the Philippines. He died in 1936. 
                                                Franklin
                                             Evening Star, April 12, 1936.
                           
                                     31 I took a walk up to the Light-House which is
                                    situated upon the highest part of the island. The view from this point is elegant
                                    Manila can be seen across the bay to the east Caviti [Cavite] (Aguainaldo's
                                    home and the scine of Deweys victory to the south—to the north Bataan
                                    Province is seen and looking westward nothing can be seen but the mighty Pacific
                        Corregidor is a pretty little island at the entrance of the bay. From it all the
                                    ships that pass in or out can be seen.
                        The Government has a magnificent convalesant Hosp. Am feeling much better already and
                                    on the good wholesome chow I will soon be myself again
                        Sept 13 I was marked duty today and left Corregidor on the Launch "Guy
                                    Howard" arriving at Manila about sundown. and reporting to my Co.
                                    immediately afterward.
                        14 The news of the Presidents death came to the people like a thunderbolt out of a
                                    clear sky-27
                        
                        It was though [t] that he would recover. The city is in deep mourning and Filipinos,
                                    Spaniards Germans and English alike share with the Americans in their grief.
                        15 I done my first Guard for 8 mo, today at "Aguainaldos house. He is
                                    securely guarded with no possible chance of escape
                        19 Very impressive Memorial ceremonies were held today on the Luneta in honor of our
                                    noble Chieften.
                        All the troops in Manila participated in the event.
                        I was on guard at Camp Wallace just east of the Luneta.
                        26 Twenty seven (27) members of Co. K. were transferred to the Artillery today and
                                    will sail for the U.S. Monday. Was detailed on S. D. today as Co. Clerk.
                        30 The company moved from Malati Barracks to Cuartel di Mesie [de Masig] today in
                                    Tondo district
                        Oct 1 We are settled down in our new qrs. Am very much pleased with the surroundings
                                        
                              
                                 27 President William McKinley was shot by an anarchist
                                            on September 6, 1901. He died eight days later.
                           
                                     Oct 7. I was appointed Quartermaster
                                    Serg't today being relieved as Co. Clerk by Cpl [Ira M.] Roberts. Am kept
                                    rather busy chasing around looking after the rations, kitchen etc.
                        Oct 28— The Comd'g. Officer of Manila reviewed the entire
                                    garrison today after a practice march of 10 miles which was done I believe partly to
                                    awe and impress the natives of the power and strength of the U. S. Army, which is
                                    very opportune at this times as the people in general are very restless and sullen
                                    since the disaster on Samar, and dark rumors and forebodings of another outbreak and
                                    rebellion are to be heard on every corner.28
                        
                        Oct 3rd29 The beginning of the end is in sight, as I have been
                                    ordered to turn in all of my equipments and report to Camp Wallace for
                                    transportation to the 
                                        United States
                                     of America
                        Will probably leave the Co. Wednesday or Thursday -never to return. Alac no mas pero
                                    y.
                        Oct 6 Have lost sight of the end entirely as I was greatly disappointed in not
                                    getting away
                        All the transports seem to be under a spell of some kind. Will not start home untill
                                    discharged
                        Nov 1. Still at Cuartel de Meisic Dull
                        " 16. Am playing Nick Carter in recovering stolen revolvers.30 Success.
                        " 21. Witness against Randall and Reynolds and am
                                    "buscowing" Thanksgiving dinner. Mucha colar [very hot]
                        Nov. 28th This is my third Thanksgiving Day I have passed in the Phil. Isles and the
                                    last one. I imagine the conditions are in great contrast to that at home.
                        Had a fine dinner today composed of the following articles.
                        
                           
                              28 On September 28, 1901, in the town of Balangiga, the
                                        island of Samar, Company C, 9th Infantry, was attacked by a mob which killed
                                        some seventy of the men and officers. See Joseph L. Schott, The Ordeal of Sumur (
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and 
                                            New York
                                        , 1964).
                           
                              29 Although this entry and the one which follows appear to
                                        be out of sequence or misdated, they have not been moved because they do make
                                        sense in this, the original order.
                           
                              80 Nick Carter was a popular fictional detective in dime
                                        novels of the 1880's.
                        
                        
                        Roast Chicken.
                        Oyster Dressing Gravy a la Army.
                        Green Peas
                        Green Corn.
                        Cold Slaw.
                        Mashed Spuds
                        Pickles.
                        Pumpkin Pie.
                        Cake a la Army
                        Butter and Bread
                        Coffee Tea
                        Cranberry Sauce and several other articles too numerous to mention.
                        Dec 3rd In view of the fact that I will be discharged [from] the service tomorrow I
                                    turned over the mess and all property etc pertaining to Co. K. to my successor
                                    Corpl. [Lee O'Hara] O'Harra.
                        Dec 4th All things come to an end some day, so today I have honorably completed my
                                    three year enlistment in the U. S. Army, and in such a manner that in years to come
                                    I can point with pride to the services I rendered to my country, upholding and
                                    fighting for the honor of Old Glory.
                        Today is probably an important event in my career. (Who can say.
                        Dec 6. Am well situated in Camp Wallace, as comfortable as circum[s]tances will
                                    permitt
                        Have cashed all my finals and all is ready to go on board the ship that is to carry
                                    me back [to] the 
                                        United States
                                    
                        
                        The camp is very dissagreeable at present owing to the recent heavy rains and
                                    typhoons that have been raging for the last few days.
                        Dec 9. Was up to Cuartel Meisic this morning, and bid all my old comrades that are
                                    left, a last "adios" In one respect it is hard to leave the boys
                                    after fighting shoulder to shoulder, and enduring so many hardships to
                                    gether— of all the friendly ties there are none, like those that exist
                                    between soldiers who have drank from the same old canteen 
                                    
                              PAGE 78 OF JOHNSON'S DIARY FOR
                                                PRINTED VERSION SEE P. 294
                           
                                     May God's richest blessing rest upon
                                    those brave and nobles defenders of our country
                        Dec 10. I shook the last dust of the Phillipines off my feet at 8 A.M. and stepped
                                    aboard the lorca #9 and was towed out to the 
                                        United States
                                     Army Transport Kilpatrick which lies two miles out in the bay
                        It is an elegant and will no doubt land us safe and sound in 
                                        San Francisco
                                    , U.S.A. The British Crusier "Endymoin" is lying at
                                    anchor about 1/4 mile away, This will be the last night in Manila Bay as we sail at
                                    1 P.M. tomorrow. "Mafiafia"
                        Dec 11 At 12M the last mail came aboard and at 1:07 P.M. we weighed anchor and stood
                                    slowly out to sea passing out of the gates of Corregeidor Island about 4 oclock into
                                    the open sea We passed the Hospital Ship "Relief" just off
                                    Corregidor and later hailed the "Grant" from 
                                        San Francisco
                                    , Cal.
                        12 I had a fine nights rest but after coming on deck I be came a trifle dizzy which
                                    soon passed away, but several are not so fortunate, as they are feeding the fishes
                                    frequently.
                        We are passing the Northern coast of Luzon which will be left far behind by morning
                        Towards evening the sea became very rough and the deck was swept by the seas several
                                    times. I for one got a good weting.
                        13 No land in sight! Was sick as a horse all day especialy towards evening as the sea
                                    became very much rougher.
                        14 Sighted the Formosa group today This is the island that 
                                        China
                                     & 
                                        Japan
                                     had trouble over, a few years ago.31
                        
                        15 Smooth sea and the weather is getting cooler 'tis hard too keep warm
                                    heretofore it has always been the question how to keep cool
                        17 We sighted the coast of 
                                        Japan
                                     this morning and at 9:05 A.M. droped anchor in the snug harbor of
                                    Nagasaki. There is a Russian, a French, and a German warship in port also 
                              
                                 31 This is a reference to the Sino-Japanese War of
                                            1894-96 in which the Japanese took possession of Formosa.
                           
                                     Myself and Sergt. Maj. Lyons 22nd Infty. went
                                    ashore about noon, and came back about midnight Seen all the queer sights which were
                                    a change at least from Manila.
                        
                           
                                        Japan
                                     is a great little nation. …….
                        18 Was ashore again about 3 hours. We are taking coal and provisions aboard to last
                                    to 
                                        San Francisco
                                     Cal.
                        19. At 9:25 A.M. We left nagasaki, Ouhu, bound for San F. Passed the U. S. Crusier "
                                        Brooklyn
                                    " as we left the harbor
                        I understand six men are left behind, The sea is pretty rough and I am going to turn
                                    in—Goodbye 
                                        Japan
                                    .
                        20. No 
                                        Japan
                                     this day we are far out into the mighty Pacific
                        23 Passed five Whales today. All were on the surface and spouting
                        25. Christmas, and the fourth one I have spent in foreign lands and in one respect
                                    this is the worst of all We are N. Latitude 38°26' and
                                    135°56' Long. Sea pleasant.
                        1902
                        January 9th Land at last, and thank God it is the coast of 
                                        California
                                    
                        
                        At 10:30 the Good old ship Kilpatrick entered the Golden Gate and dropped her anchor
                                    in Francisco Bay
                        After some delay with the quarintine officials we steamed across the bay to Angel
                                    Island where the soldiers disimbarked
                        Later we came over to the docks and with a grip in each hand, stood once more upon my
                                    native land. I thank Heaven for this privilege
                        10 Thomas, Lutz, Baily, Shack [U. I.], and myself "put up" at the
                                    Royal House, and to pass the time away, we all went to the theater last night.
                        This evening bought a ticket to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     over the Santa Fe R.R. at 8 this evening took the Ferry boat and went
                                    across the bay to Point 
                                        Richmond
                                     and took the Overland Limited which left at 8:30 for 
                                        Chicago
                                    . The "
                                        Warren
                                    " also came in today. Johnson H. B. [Handy B.]
                        
                        Meyers G. E. [U. I.] and several more of the boys were on her.
                        11. Have been traveling all day through Southern 
                                        California
                                    , Had dinner at Barstow, Cal, a branch of the Santa Fe goes from here to
                                    Los Angles Will probably cross over into 
                                        Arizona
                                     this evening
                        12. This morning we passed into 
                                        New Mexico
                                     at the Needles, Such a barren and waste land I never seen before about
                                    2 P.M. we passed through the Navajo Indian Res.
                        14 Arrived at 
                                        Kansas City
                                     this morning but left immediately for 
                                        Chicago
                                     which we hope to reach tonight Am very tiried and wished I were at
                                    home. Baily & Lutz left us her—
                        15 Reached 
                                        Chicago
                                     last night at 9:30 P.M. and missed connection. so we had to stay over
                                    night at 
                                        Chicago
                                     This morning we left Chi- over the Big four R.R. Had dinner at La 
                                        Fayette
                                    , Ind. And at 2:15 pulled into the Union Station at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Ind.
                        Thomas, Johnson H. B. went over to the Sherman House Johnson left for Seymour this
                                    evening.
                        Thomas and I went up to the Progress bought a whole outfit, came back to the hotel,
                                    had bath, shave, etc and came forth different looking men from what we were.
                        Citizens clothing seemed awkward at first. Goodbye old uniform I put you away with
                                    reluctance and feel that I have always worn you with honor & dignity to
                                    myself -and credit to you and our country.
                        Once more farewell old blues.
                        Thomas and I went to the theater and seen a good Play.
                        16. [Left] At 9 A.M. this morning and got on an electric car and reached home about
                                    11:15 Home
                        sweet
                        Home
                        Finis
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Kossuth in Indiana
            Fredrick Trautmann*
            
            Near midnight, December 5, 1851, a ship anchored at Sandy Hook in 
                        New York
                     harbor. The next day the city's Herald called her principal passenger
                    "the greatest living man." He was Louis Kossuth—attorney, student of
                    languages, newspaper editor, diet deputy, finance minister, and finally, as governor of 
                        Hungary
                    , leader of the Hungarian revolution against 
                        Austria
                    . When Russia helped 
                        Austria
                     put the revolution down in 1849, Kossuth fled into Turkey, but not into
                    oblivion.’ Rather, "The whole romance of the revolutionary time found in
                    Kossuth's person its most attractive embodiment."2 Sarah T. Bolton of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in her "Address to Kossuth" (1849), observed:
            
                    The laurel wreath encircles many a brow, And many a name is traced on glory's
                        chart. And some have blessed their fellow men, but thou Hast stirred the pulses of the
                        world's great heart.3
               
                
            In the 
                        United States
                     Kossuth's revolution had "enlisted the sympathy of the people to an
                    extent that was unprecedented."4 In 1849 Americans formed pro-Hungarian
                    societies, petitioned Congress to assist Hungarian refugees, and in public meetings passed
                    resolutions favoring American support of 
                        Hungary
                    .5 In 1850 the Indiana General Assembly requested the
                    state's members of Congress to urge that 
                        Washington
                     do all possible to assist Kossuth, and 
                        Ohio
                    's legislature 
                  
                     * Fredrick Trautmann is an assistant professor of speech at
                            Temple University, 
                                Philadelphia
                            .
                  
                     1 Phineas Camp Headley, The Life of Louis Kossuth (
                                Auburn
                            , N. Y., 1852), 17-232; Endre Sebestyen, Kossuth: A Magyar Apostle
                                of World Democracy (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1950), 7-64.
                  
                     2 Carl Schurz, The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz (3
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907), I, 385.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 1, 1852.
                  
                     4 John Bassett Moore, "Kossuth: Sketch of a
                            Revolutionist," Political Science Quarterly, X (March, 1895), 95.
                  
                     5 John Bach McMaster, A History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                , from the Revolution to the Civil War (8 vols., 
                                New York
                             and 
                                London
                            , 1883-1913), VIII, 144-46. Abraham Lincoln introduced such a resolution at a
                            meeting in 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ; see Roy P. Basler (ed.), The
                                Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln (8 vols., New Bruns wick, N. J., 1953), 11,
                            116-16.
               
                     suggested that Congress provide a ship for his passage to the 
                        United States
                    .6 In 1851, empowered by a congressional resolution "for
                    the relief of Louis Kossuth and his associates, exiles from 
                        Hungary
                    ," President Millard Fillmore dispatched the frigate 
                        
                            Mississippi
                        
                     to bring Kossuth to America.7 On the morning of December
                    6—while bands played, flags and streamers waved, cannon roared, and ships'
                    whistles blew— Kossuth crossed from Sandy Hook to the Battery, where 200,000 people had
                    massed to greet him.8 By evening he had created "a first-class national
                        sensation."9
            
            Kossuth had come to the 
                        United States
                     to request help— both diplomatic and financial. In speeches from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , from Mobile to 
                        Boston
                    , he would ask that the 
                        United States
                     recognize Hungarian independence and support free trade between 
                        Hungary
                     and the rest of the world. To help him reopen the revolution he would request a
                    government loan, private contributions, and the purchase of Hungarian bonds.10
            
            Near December's end Kossuth began his march across the country. It ranked, said the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer, "among the most remarkable events of this remarkable
                        age."11 Behind him Americans nursed hoarse voices, swabbed out
                    dirty cannon, tidied up littered meeting halls and parade fields, and carried slimmer purses. His
                    audience in 
                        Baltimore
                     waited for him for hours in the cold and called their resulting illness
                    "Kossuth grippe." In 
                        Washington
                     he addressed Congress and conversed with President Fillmore and Secretary of State
                    Daniel Webster. In Hollidaysburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a crowd routed Kossuth out of bed, imploring him to speak. Workmen in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     factories each gave him a week's wages.12
            
            
               
                  6
                        Senate Journal, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., 67; House Miscellaneous
                            Documents, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 39.
               
                  7 James D. Richardson (ed.), Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10
                        vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1899), V, 111, 119.
               
                  8 Ray Allen Billington, The Protestant Crusade, 1800-1860: A Study of the
                        Origins of American Nativism (
                            New York
                        , 1938), 330.
               
                  9 Frank Luther Mott, American Journalism: A History, 1690-1960 (3rd. ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1962), 298.
               
                  10
                        
                            New York
                         Daily Times, December 12, 17, 1861, January 3, 7, 1862.
               
                  11 Quoted in 
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 4, 1862.
               
                  12 McMaster, History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VIII, 162-63.
            
            
            Early in January the uproar moved "Local" of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal to poetic drama: 
                        Enter husband, with one of the new Kossuth hats on—gun and
                            newspaper—spouting Kossuth's latest speech. Enter wife with a broom.
                        Wife (angrily) Why will you wear that horrid hat? It looks too bad to mention;
                            And flourish round that rusty gun And talk of intervention?
                        Husband (meekly) Betsy, my dear, don't worry so; Control your rising
                            passion. Why sport that gun and new chapeau? Kossuthing
                            (‘cos-shooting’) is the fashion!13
                  
                    
            
            By February Kossuth had given scores of speeches. Citizens in 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , offered
                    him "five hundred muskets belonging to the county."14 He
                    received roaring receptions in 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .15 The Queen City's Enquirer said:
                    "Kossuth's mission, we think, is like that of JOHN'S— it is to
                    prepare the way for the coming of a brighter day to the nations."16 John Lyle King, Indiana
                    assemblyman from 
                        Madison
                    , later remembered that Kossuth was "everywhere hailed as the champion of
                    liberty for the nations, and a hero of the field and of the forum, whose matchless eloquence had won
                    him the sympathy of our entire people."17
            
            In February, 1852, Indiana was ready to welcome the Hungarian. "To invite him to our State
                    capital and tender him a formal reception seemed a matter of course," King recalled.la On
                    December 20 the general assembly had issued an invitation to him, promising "Louis Kossuth,
                    late Governor of 
                        Hungary
                    , and his brave compatriots, a cordial welcome to 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Journal, January 8, 1852.
                  
                     14 McMaster, History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            , VIII, 153.
                  
                     15 Andor M. Leffler, "Kossuth Comes to 
                                Cleveland
                            ," 
                                Ohio
                             State Archeological and Historical Quarterly, LVI (April, 1947), 242-57; David
                            Mead, "Brownson and Kossuth at 
                                Cincinnati
                            ," Bulletin of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                Ohio
                            , VII (April, 1949), 90-93; John W. Oliver, "Louis Kossuth's
                            Appeal to the Middle West," 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XIV (March, 1928), 481-95.
                  
                     16 Quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 4, 1852.
                  
                     17 John Lyle King, Memoirs of the Indiana Legislature of 1851-1852
                            (nap., n.d.), 7.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the Capital of Indiana … as Guests of the
                        State."19 Governor Joseph A. Wright sent the invitation to Kossuth,
                    with a letter in which he said: "I assure you these resolutions express the sentiments and
                    feelings of the State. We regard you as the representative of freedom of the Old World."20 Wright next appointed a preparation committee of fifty. It in turn sent ten
                    members of each house of the general assembly and Lieutenant Governor James H. Lane to meet Kossuth
                    at 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; chose Wright, five senators, five representatives, and thirty citizens to entertain
                    Kossuth in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; appointed seven citizens to arrange a banquet; and named a publicity committee of
                    five. In addition, both houses scheduled a reception for Kossuth in their chambers.21
            
            Kossuth, his retinue, and the Indiana welcoming committee boarded the packet 
                        Wisconsin
                     at 
                        Cincinnati
                     on February 26, 1852.22 Ashore and in near-by boats Buckeyes
                    cheered farewell. The 
                        Wisconsin
                    , American and Hungarian flags aloft and Turkish flag astern, steamed away. When she
                    passed 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Aurora
                    , Hoosiers lining the riverbank applauded her passenger. At Rising Sun and Patriot they
                    fired volleys of cannon shots. A hundred Kentuckians shouted their good will at Carollton, even
                    though Kossuth did not appear on deck. In late afternoon the 
                        Wisconsin
                     docked at 
                        Madison
                    . There several thousand Hoosiers cheered and waved banners, handkerchiefs, and hats. On
                    each end of the wharf a field piece roared, and artillery on the 
                        Wisconsin
                     answered. The German Brass and 
                        Washington
                     bands played "loud bursts" of "stirring and patriotic
                        airs."23 From the hurricane deck Lieutenant Governor Lane
                    introduced Kossuth, who bowed and waved to his assembled hosts.24
            
            
               
                  19
                        
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Courier, December 24, 1851.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., January 26, 1852.
               
                  21
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Indiana State Sentinel, January 13, 1852.
               
                  22 Kossuth's retinue included his wife, servants, secretaries,
                        friends, and associates, among whom were Francis Pulszky, an official close to Kossuth in 
                            Hungary
                        's revolutionary government, and his wife Theresa. The Pulszkys published
                        their American reminiscences as White, Red, Black: Sketches of American Society in the 
                            United States
                         During the Visit of Their Guests (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1853). The account of their visit to Indiana is given as "Mrs.
                        Pulszky's Diary," II, 5-13.
               
                  23
                        
                            Madison
                         Daily Madisonian, 
                            Madison
                         Daily Banner, 
                            Madison
                         Daily Courier, February 27, 1852.
               
                  24
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Indiana State Journal, February 28, 1852.
            
            
            After his introduction at the waterfront, Kossuth, at the head of a "concourse of
                    spectators," went by carriage to the 
                        Madison
                     House and took a second-floor room. He intended no speech, but people clamored outside
                    until he appeared at his window and looked down at the "assembled multitde."25 Kossuth was about five feet eight inches tall, sparely built. He wore his
                    military uniform, a sword in a steel scabbard that trailed on the ground when he walked, and the
                    famous black felt "Kossuth" hat with broad turned-up brim and round crown
                    decorated with a wide ribbon, buckle, and plume. He had smoldering bluish-gray eyes and a high,
                    deeply wrinkled forehead. His dark straight hair, beginning to grizzle, included a thick beard and
                        mustache.26 He bowed and gave a short speech. People everywhere favored his
                    and all causes of liberty, he said, but the kind, perceptive people of 
                        Madison
                     did so especially. His requests for help in the cause of Hungarian liberty were
                    sincere, he avowed. He said in conclusion that he hoped their generosity toward him would prove
                    "the cornerstone of the pillar of world freedom."27 Throughout
                    the speech he was "enthusiastically cheered."28
            
            Although the crowd waited outside the 
                        Madison
                     House after his speech, he did not reappear until the next morning. Then he, his
                    retinue, and the state welcoming committee boarded a "Kossuth Special" for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The train ascended the steep hill at 
                        Madison
                     via a cog railroad. He praised the "Indiana inventive genius" of
                    Andrew Cathcart, the rail's designer. In North 
                        Madison
                    , Dupont, and Wirt crowds cheered. Cannon roared in Vernon. "There is a waste
                    of gunpowder," Kossuth said to Lane. "It makes me think of what must come in my
                    country, and I do not want to hear it now."29 Crowds applauded in
                    Elizabethtown and 
                        Columbus
                    . Kossuth declined to speak to the 300 assembled at 
                        Columbus
                     but accepted maple sugar from a boy. The Hungarian and his retinue marveled over this
                    amazing "Hoosier 
                  
                     25
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Banner, February 27, 1862.
                  
                     26 Ben Perley Poore, Perley's Reminiscences of Sixty Years in
                            the National Metropolis (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1886), I, 404.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1852.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Banner, February 27, 1852.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1862.
               
                     production."30 They lunched in 
                        Franklin
                    , where at a public meeting preceding Kossuth's arrival "the Oratory
                    and Eloquence … [had been] enough to throw Demosthenes or Cicero far in the
                        shade."31 The Kossuth Special received ovations at Edinburgh,
                    Whiteland, Greenwood, and Southport, and arrived in late afternoon at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A long procession formed and marched through the city. It consisted of
                    Downe's Saxe Horn Band; the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Turnverein, wearing "white drilling suits, red cravats and black felt
                    hats" and serving as "guards for the guest of the city";32 Kossuth and his wife in a carriage; his retinue in a carriage; the Committee of
                    Arrangements in carriages; other carriages; the Independent Relief Fire Company; the O. K. Bucket
                    Company; and citizens on foot.33
            
            Thirty minutes later the procession ended in the state house yard. "A multitude"
                    had gathered beside the stucco-covered, large-domed Doric edifice.34 The
                    pressure of the crowd around John Lyle King made him "nearly breathless.35 Pickpockets and hucksters moved among them. Hundreds of brass lapel medals bearing a
                    likeness of Kossuth were sold. Count Louis Betheleny, Captain George Klapsa, Peter Nagy (all of
                    Kossuth's retinue), the Reverend C. E. Babb, General James Blake, reporters, Governor
                    Wright, and Kossuth mounted a platform and sat down. Babb stood and invoked divine blessing on
                    "our bleeding sister" 
                        Hungary
                     and, "especially, thy servant, who has come to us from that land of heroes and
                        martyrs."36 The band responded. Next Governor Wright welcomed
                    Kossuth on behalf of the people of Indiana. They would support Kossuth's request for
                    Hungarian freedom, he said, even though that "should imperil the shock of
                        arms."37
            
            Then Kossuth rose and mounted a settee. From its height he looked at the crowd calmly, swaying a
                    little to and fro. He asked for quiet so "the feeble words of an exile stranger 
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1852.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Locomotive, March 6, 1852.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Turnverein, Seventy-Fifth Anniversarg, 1851-1926 (n. p., 1926), 6.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Journal, February 28, 1852.
                  
                            34
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     35 [John] Lyle King Diary, March 1, 1852, Indiana Historical Society
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     36
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1852.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, February 28, 1852.
               
                     may be mostly heard," but the crowd talked and jostled
                    during the speech. He first contrasted America and Europe. In one there were freedom and harmony. In
                    the other, under arrogant rulers, "twenty centuries of blood have watered the red-hot
                    chains, and still the fetters are not broken." He went then to his main point, that for its
                    own continued good the 
                        United States
                     should help him establish democracy in Europe. Indeed, Kossuth warned, unless Europe
                    became democratic, the 
                        United States
                     would not "stand half the time it has stood." To amplify this warning
                    he appealed to fear of disunion. He spoke of Governor Wright's pledging Indiana for support
                    of the union of the states two years before, then took off his hat, swung it over his head, and
                    shouted "Hurrah for the Union!" The audience roared "Hurrah" in
                    reply. Then support noninterference in 
                        Hungary
                    , he concluded, or "foreign interference mingling with some of your discords
                    will be the Alexander who will cut asunder the Gordian knot of your Union, in this our present
                    century." Kossuth exhorted the gathering to adopt the policy just outlined by Governor
                    Wright. The crowd then gave three cheers.38
            
            The participants in these activities next moved to the Governor's residence for a
                    "levee." In her diary, Mrs. Pulszky described the house as
                    "small." An 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper reported that "at least five thousand"39 filed through and shook Kossuth's hand-mothers carrying infants, workmen in
                    blouses or dusty coats, farmers in high muddy boots, women wearing glass jewels and French silk
                    dresses. "Once more we saw that the house of the Governor is the property of the
                    people," Mrs. Pulszky observed. "Had they but shaken hands less
                    violently!" she added. "I yet feel Western cordiality in my stiff
                        arm."40
            
            The next morning, February 28, a dark rainy Saturday, both houses of the general assembly received
                    Kossuth. Each chamber held as many spectators "as could wedge within its
                        walls."41 In each house Governor Wright, the chairman of the
                    chamber's welcoming committee, and "the distinguished Hungarian guest of the
                    State" walked up the center aisle to 
                  
                     38 Ibid. Reports of this speech also appeared in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1852.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, February 28, 1862.
                  
                     40 Pulszky, White, Red, Black, 10-11.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, March 1, 1852.
               
                     the presiding officer, who said: "Governor Kossuth, I
                    bid you welcome, thrice welcome… ." The house then adjourned, and each member
                    shook the guest's hand. After his Senate reception "both bodies paraded the much
                    moistened liberator on foot through mud and rain to the hotel."42
            
            That evening the 
                        Indianapolis
                     printers, the "Sons of Faust and 
                        Franklin
                    ," gave Kossuth a purse. Editor E. W. H. Ellis presented it and addressed
                    Kossuth in the reading room of his hotel, the Capitol House. The printers, said Ellis, looked to 
                        Hungary
                     as "the Star of Liberty in Europe." Kossuth responded by praising a
                    free press and asking that it help him in America. He also said that 
                        Providence
                     guided him and because the ways of 
                        Providence
                     were mysterious, his fight may have been lost the first time to show that one must not
                    compromise with despotism. He thought his ultimate success assured because "no Christian
                    can believe God will forsake a just cause."43 At the end of the speech
                    the printers gave him and 
                        Hungary
                     "three long, loud and hearty cheers… ."44
            
            Kossuth next addressed the Association of Friends of 
                        Hungary
                     on March 1 at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Masonic Temple. (A week before, declaring Kossuth "a case of
                    emergency," 
                        Cincinnati
                     Lodge 133 had given him three degrees of Masonry in two days.)45
                    Governor Wright, Kossuth, and retinue entered the ornate, rose-tinted hall at 7:30 P.M.
                    "amidst great applause."46 The bulk of his speech concerned 
                        Hungary
                    's record of defending Christian civilization and championing
                    constitutionalism. Most recently, he said, 
                        Hungary
                     had bled for the Protestant faith by fighting 
                        Austria
                    , that "ready tool to the insolence of Jesuitism." He urged
                    association members to inform themselves of his design in America by reading all his speeches.
                    Finally he requested political and material aid and then bade the group farewell.47 He sat down 
                  
                     42 King, Memoirs of the Indiana Legislature, 8.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 1, 1862.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Madisonian, March 3, 1852.
                  
                     45 "Famous Hungarian Patriot Once Visited Centre
                            Lodge," The Indiana Freemason, XXXIV (March, 1967), 4-6. See also Sebestyen,
                            Kosmth, 77-78.
                  
                     46 Pulszky, White, Red, Black, 10-11.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                      Daily Indiana State Journal, March 2, 1862.
               
                     amid "the wildest enthusiasm."48 "A splendid address,"49 King thought,
                    "his great speech."50
            
            On March 2, Kossuth, his retinue, and a few members of the welcoming committee returned by train to 
                        Madison
                    . He sat by himself, thoughtful, in the rear car.51 At 
                        Madison
                     flags, cannon, music, and shouting greeted him. The 
                        Madison
                     Germans, behind their brass band, had marched to the depot, flying the Stars and
                    Stripes and the Hungarian and German standards.52 Indiana Germans were behaving
                    like Germans nationally, who "responded to the ‘Kossuth craze’ with
                    more fervor than any other group" and maintained it after enthusiasm had generally
                        subsided.53
            
            Theophilus Wehle welcomed Kossuth and wished him success on behalf of the 
                        Madison
                     Germans. With their brothers around the country, Wehle said, they favored a fighter
                    against oppression in Europe. Kossuth replied, in sum, that 
                        Hungary
                     and 
                        Germany
                     had much in common and needed to cooperate in the future to repulse despotism.54 Then the Germans escorted him to Wesley Chapel, where he gave his final
                    speech in Indiana. He promised to continue his crusade for material and diplomatic aid and said that
                    in spite of his enemies the 
                        United States
                    -"the wonder of the world"-would help him, but that her help must come
                    now. If not, "the fate of mankind is sealed for centuries" because, he claimed,
                    Russia would soon stop world commerce and destroy the 
                        United States
                     and thereby the other democratic countries.55 Then Kossuth left
                    aboard the Lady 
                        Pike
                     for 
                        Louisville
                    .56
            
            Except for the flattery in his speeches, no record has been found of what Kossuth thought of Indiana
                    and her people. But Mrs. Pulszky set down her impressions in White, Red, Black. She believed the
                    constitution of 1851 was inconsistent because it declared all men equal, but forbade the 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Madisonian, March 3, 1852.
                  
                     49 King, Memoirs of the Indiana Legislature, 8.
                  
                     50 King Diary, March 1.
                  51 Ibid.
                  
                  
                     52
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Courier, March 6, 1852.
                  
                     53 Carl Wittke, Refugees of Revolution: The German
                                Forty-Eighters in America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1952), 96, 98-99.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Madisonian, March 4, 1862.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Banner, March 6, 1852.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Courier, March 3, 1862.
               
                     entry into Indiana of Negroes and mulattoes and encouraged
                    transporting them to 
                        Liberia
                    . When she expressed surprise at these conditions to one of the constitution's
                    framers, Robert Dale Owen, he replied that black people should live where they can be free, rather
                    than here where they cannot. " ‘Our children shall not have helots before their
                    eyes,’ said he." When she said that in 
                  Vermont, Massachusetts
               , and 
                        New York
                     the same people could be equal to whites, he answered that public opinion in Indiana
                    disapproved such equality.57
            
            Governor Wright she called "plain, cordial and practical, like a farmer, with a deep
                    religious tinge." His governing she thought "a constant and personal intercourse
                    … patriarchal … in harmony with the intellectual standards of an agricultural
                    population." She found his wife of a "strongly-marked, puritanical countenance. It
                    seems as if a smile had hardly ever moved her lips, and yet there is such placid serenity in her
                    features as only the consciousness of well-performed duty can impart."58
            
            Indiana's Methodism, which Mrs. Pulszky believed best suited the state's religious
                    needs, had "no glittering formalities, no working on the imagination, not much of
                    reasoning; but powerful accents and appeals to the conscience" and frequent reference to
                    heaven and hell. She "could not doubt the deep religious conviction of the
                    people." In the Sunday schools, she said, her husband saw "all ages assembled;
                    children and old men instructed by the clergyman and regular and voluntary teachers. They read the
                    Scriptures in different groups, and the teachers took occasion to explain history, ancient and
                    modern geography, and to give other useful information, but always in connection with the
                        Bible."59
            
            "Now we are really in the West," she wrote on seeing 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that "very small place, whose resources are not yet sufficient to provide for
                    drainage and pavement," deep in "aboriginal mud." Her hotel, the Capitol
                    House, she found "far from nice."60 She seemed to think its
                    service poor, perhaps because "the feeling of equality pervades this State so much, that
                    people do not like to work for wages."61
                    
                  
                     57 Pulszky, White, Red, Black, 7-8.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 12-13.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 12.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 10.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 9.
               
                     Wind blew into her room through a large crack in the wall. She
                    took her meals in the hotel's "dark dinner-room" at a "table
                    covered with pies, celery, mashed potatoes, sour wheat bread, tough cow-meat and cold pork
                    … [and] muddy water." She considered the soup "an infusion of
                    hay." During a meal no one spoke. "Forks and knives worked steadily. Eating
                    … is here likewise a business, which must be dispatched as quickly as
                        possible."62
            
            Mrs. Pulszky continued her commentary on America while she followed Kossuth. Pausing wherever an
                    audience would hear him, he spoke in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     by the end of March; in Mobile, 
                  Montgomery,
                            Atlanta, Charleston, Washington
               , and 
                        Boston
                     by the end of April; and in 
                        Albany
                    , Buffalo, 
                        Syracuse
                    , and Utica before sailing from 
                        New York City
                     on July 14, 1852.
            To carry on his work in Indiana Kossuth left behind the Association of Friends of 
                        Hungary
                    . He had first appealed for creation of the organization in a letter to Governor Wright.
                    "Since I cannot address everyone," wrote Kossuth, associations must
                    "carry my message," "rouse the public mind," and
                    "collect money" for Hungarian freedom.63 He also had circulars
                    in German and English distributed in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In these he set forth his need for the fruits of such associations, citing especially
                    the situation in 1848 when his 400,000 man army had only 150,000 muskets.64
                    Wright in turn moved for formation of the Indiana association at a public meeting in the hall of the
                    House of Representatives on February 28, 1852. The association's constitution, then
                    adopted, prescribed such routine matters as offices and meeting dates. It further provided for an
                    executive committee of "one influential citizen" from each county to supervise
                    formation of local chapters.65 Annual dues were a dollar, payable at twenty-five
                    cents a month. A member could exchange his dues for a $1 Hungarian bond bearing no
                    interest, or twenty-five members could take a $25 bond bearing 6 per cent interest. All
                    members' names were to be enrolled in the archives of 
                        Hungary
                     on establishment of its independent government. County chapters could 
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 11.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, March 1, 1852.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 1, 1852.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Journal, March 1, 1852.
               
                     appoint from two to six collectors of Hungarian fund
                    contributions, who could keep 6 per cent of their collections.66 When
                    Kossuth's popularity ended, the associations evidently disappeared.
            Kossuth himself collected $800.00 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , $200.00 of which came when "a large number" signed the
                    constitution and paid the dues of the association. The Indiana Female College contributed
                    $26.00 toward the balance; the printers, $50.00; the Germans,
                    $160.00; and Ovid 
                        Butler
                    , $100.00.67 In 
                        Madison
                     the Germans gave $300.00 and paid $200.00 more for bonds.68
            
            Presumably the bonds Kossuth sold in Indiana were the same as those he sold in the East. These, in
                    one-, five-, ten-, twenty-, and fifty-dollar denominations, displayed Kossuth's face on
                    engraved paper, and a one-dollar variety said: 
                        HUNGARIAN FUND
                        On demand one year after the establishment in fact of the INDEPENDENT HUNGARIAN GOVERNMENT,
                            the holder hereof shall be entitled to ONE DOLLAR, payable at the National Treasury, or at
                            either of its Agencies at 
                                London
                             or 
                                New York
                            , or to exchange the same in sums of Fifty Dollars or over, for certificates
                            bearing four per cent interest, payable in ten equal installments from one year after said
                            event.
                        (signed) L. Kossuth
                        (attest) Francis Pulszky69
                  
                    
            
            In addition to the association, Kossuth left behind political controversy. The major parties
                    disagreed, nationally and locally, over whether the 
                        United States
                     should interfere in post-revolutionary Europe. During Kossuth's visit,
                    "Young America" (insurgents who favored spreading democracy abroad) controlled the
                    national Democratic party, so it favored intervention.70 The Whigs opposed this
                    position. Therefore, seeking votes, the Democrats openly endorsed the popular Hungarian and his
                    requests for diplomatic and financial aid, 
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 1, 1852.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., March 1, 2, 1852.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Madison
                             Daily Courier, February 27, March 3, 1852.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, May 7, 1852.
                  
                     70 Merle Curti, "Young America," American Historical
                            Review, XXXII (October, 1926), 37-41.
               
                     whereas the Whigs undertook the more difficult task of praising
                    the public hero without affirming his requests.71
            
            Individual political leaders, the general assembly, the party conventions, and the press in Indiana
                    acted accordingly. Asked to contribute a "sentiment" to 
                        Cincinnati
                    's Kossuth reception, Governor Wright, a Democrat, wrote: 
                        The 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley [is] Inhabited by Freeman, who are ready to unite with the Freemen of
                            the World, upon the principle of self-government, the right of any people to change, alter,
                            and abolish their laws and rulers, and if needs be sustain this principle by a
                            world's war for the sake of humanity.72
                  
                     James W. Cockrum, Whig House member, wrote: 
                        I heard Gov. Wright, Speaker Davis, Bill 
                                Brown
                            , R. D. Owen [Democrats] … all express their willingness to go over
                            the atlantick Otion, join with Great briton and if nescery combine against the …
                            bare old Roshee and; if she dare to interfer; in the event of another war with 
                                Austria
                             and 
                                Hungary
                             they would if nessery go and bard him in his ice house Riagons.73
                  
                    
            
            Party politics had also dictated the nature of the Indiana assembly's joint resolution of
                    welcome for Kossuth. John Lyle King's version, "of a prudent and saving Whig
                    cast," had passed the House unanimously. In the Senate, however, it met Democratic
                    opposition, which introduced resolutions "proclaiming the intervention doctrine."
                    These the Democrats drove through the assembly "under the crack of the party
                        whip."74 State party platforms, drawn up during and after
                    Kossuth's visit to Indiana, also reflected the conflict. Here the Democrats condemned the
                    "Russian outrage," favored 
                        Hungary
                    , welcomed exiles, and stood "uncommitted" but "ready, in
                    fitting season, to act." The Whigs sympathized with revolutions against despotism and
                    welcomed exiles, but advised the European masses to bide their time.75 The issue
                    appeared in the Indiana press, too. "If remonstrance 
                  
                     71 Arthur James May, Contemporary American Opinion of the
                                Mid-Century Revolutions in Central Europe (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1927), 116, 119-20; Allan Nevins, Ordeal of the Union (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1947), 11, 35.
                  
                     72 Notes, Joseph A. Wright Papers, Indiana State Library, Indian
                            apolis.
                  
                     73 James W. Cockrum to Lucius C. Embree, January 12, 1852, Lucius C.
                            Embree Papers, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     74 King, Memoirs of the Zndiana Legislature, 7-8.
                  
                     75 W. E. Henry (ed.), State Platforms of the Two Dominant
                                Political Parties in Indiana, 1850-1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), 6-8.
               
                     [against 
                        Austria
                     and Russia] leads to war, let it come," said a Democratic journal.76 It will seem, a Whig journal demurred on Kossuth's arrival, that:
                        
                        There's a inusterin of nations, A wakin up of snakes; The devil's
                            broken out again And all Creation quakes. But we advise all to keep cool if
                                possible.77
                  
                    The same Whig newspaper thought Wright had used his Kossuth welcome speech to rebuke the
                    national administration.78
            
            Catholic hostility to the Hungarian intensified that quarrel. Archbishop John Hughes and Orestes
                    Brownson, then the national leaders of Catholicism, publicly denounced Kossuth. They called him a
                    rabid Protestant who had revolted against a Catholic monarch, who now wanted help to repeat his
                    mischief, and who praised the English government, long anti-Catholic.79 Since
                    many Catholics had also allied themselves with the Whigs against the seemingly anti-Catholic
                    Democrats, Catholic opposition to Kossuth gave one more reason for political conflict.80 The factions aligned themselves as follows: "General Scott, the Whigs and the
                    Catholics opposed all aid to the Hungarians while the Democrats gladly championed their
                        cause."81
            
            On December 3, 1851, 
                        Lafayette
                    's Democratic Daily Courier had foreshadowed the dispute in Indiana by quoting
                    the New 
                        Albany
                     Ledger: "Bishop Hughes has committed a fatal error in attacking such a man as
                    Kossuth… ." When the general assembly debated its official welcome for Kossuth,
                    George G. Dunn, a Whig, had made a "hot and rattling speech" against it because
                    (he later explained to King) "he had two thousand Catholic constituents who disfavored
                    Kossuth and his cause."82 In March, 1852, the 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, January 12, 1852.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, February 27, 1852.
                  
                     78 James W. Cockrum to Lucius C. Embree, January 12, 1852,
                  
                     79 John R. G. Hassard, Life of the Most Reverend John
                                Hughes, D. D. (
                                New York
                            , 1866), 343; Henry F. Brownson, Orestes A. Browson's
                                Middle Life (3 vols., 
                                Detroit
                            , 1899), 418-23.
                  
                     80 Dale Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XII (March, 1916), 41; McMaster, History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 174; Nevins, Ordeal of the Union, II, 35.
                  
                     81 Dale Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XI (December, 1915), 320.
                  
                     82 King, Memoirs of the Indiana Legislature,
                        7.
               
                     "Catholic Resolutions" signed by one hundred
                    eighty-four 
                        Indianapolis
                     Catholics appeared. In brief, they set forth Catholic objections to Kossuth, belittled
                    him personally, and called his aims "a most dangerous species of fanaticism." The
                    resolutions further advocated withholding votes from any candidate endorsing Kossuth's
                        requests.83 A Whig plot to capture the Catholic vote, retorted Democratic
                        newspapers.84 "Designing Whigs" had made the signers their
                    tools, one such journal said, "for the purpose of injuring Gov. Wright. It is part of the
                    political programme by which an attempt is to be made to transfer the whole Catholic vote of Indiana
                    to the Whig ticket, and the Catholic vote of the 
                        United States
                     to Gen. Winfield Scott for the Presidency."8s Such quarreling over Kossuth
                    continued and grew into the principal side issue of the election of 1852 in Indiana.86
            
            In addition to political disputes, Kossuth left beards, bills, and his name behind. Male America had
                    long been cleanshaven, but men cultivated beards in imitation of his, and Kossuth won "the
                    reputation of being the Johnny Appleseed of the bearded age."87 The Daily Indiana State Journal said on March 12, 1852: "Since
                    Kossuth's arrival in this country … we do not recollect ever having seen so many
                    whiskerandos in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as during the past week… ." He left unpaid accounts, too. After
                    Kossuth and retinue departed, their "enormous liquor bills had to be settled by the
                        legislature."88 And both an Indiana town (in 
                        Washington County
                    ) and a street (in 
                        Lafayette
                    ) are named for Kossuth.
            The Hungarian also gave his name to the "Kossuth" hat. John Genin, 
                        New York
                     hatter, deserves more credit for this fad than does Kossuth. Copying what the Hungarian
                    wore, Genin turned up brims and put feathers on unfashionable wares, took them to Kossuth's
                    vessel anchored at Sandy Hook, and gave them to the Hungarians on board. They in turn 
                  
                     83
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Indiana State Sentinel, March 5, 1852.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid.; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Madisonian, March 9, 1852.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Madisonian, March 6, 1852.
                  
                     86 Beeler, "The Election of 1852," XI, 303, 320-21.
                  
                     87 Leon Howard, Victorian Knight-Errant: A Study of the
                                Early Literary Career of James Russell 
                                    Lowell
                                
                      (Berkeley, 1952), 302-303.
                  
                     88 Kate Milner Rabb and William Herschel (eds.), An
                                Account of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                
                      in Logan Esarey, History of Indiana From Its Exploration
                                to 1922 (2d. ed., 4 vols., 
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1924), III, 62.
               
                     wore them in the Kossuth welcome parade up 
                        Broadway
                    , a spectacle Genin had helped arrange and promote. Thereafter Kossuth hats appeared
                        everywhere.89 Indiana purchasers "thronged"
                    Casad's of 
                        Lafayette
                    , said the Daily Courier on February 3, 1852. "Our red whiskers [a Kossuth
                    beard?] never shone to better advantage than when we donned one of Casad's best Kossuth
                    hats and plume." Another Hoosier complained: "The fact is, if Kossuth wore an iron
                    pot or stew pan on his cranium, there would be plenty of fashionables to wear them also. Several
                    little urchins about town are wearing ‘Kossuths' with feathers…
                        ."90 Hat manufacturers later rewarded Genin "with a silver
                    service valued at $1,200."91
            
            Like beards and hats, Kossuth was himself a fad. Two weeks after he said good-by in 
                        Madison
                    , his name had disappeared from Indiana's news. More than that, two days after
                    he left 
                        Indianapolis
                     "Winchell," a comedian, began scoring successes at Masonic Hall.
                    "We have no doubt he will secure the patronage of the members and officers of the
                    Legislature," said one Hoosier of Winchell, "as well as the intelligent dwellers
                    of the Capital City."92 Similarly, crowds were gathering in the East to
                    hear violinist Ole Bull when Kossuth quietly left the country. He went to 
                        England
                     and then to 
                        Italy
                    , where he died in Turin in 1894, a frustrated, forgotten political exile.
            Such is the story of Kossuth in Indiana. The state requested succor for him when he went into exile.
                    She asked him to visit, then prepared and gave him a warm welcome. Her people formed an Association
                    of Friends of 
                        Hungary
                    . Her German organizations feted him. Indiana citizens bought his bonds and contributed
                    to his cause. They erupted into political and religious controversy over him, wore Kossuth beards
                    and hats, and paid his bills. Today a town and a street named after him are the only public
                    reminders in Indiana of a once-famous man who thought himself inspired by God but who did little
                    more than sow the wind and write his words in water.
            
               
                  89 Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography
                        (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , WOO), II, 624-26.
               
                  90
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Indiana State Journal, January 30, 1862.
               
                  91
                        Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography, 11, 625.
               
                  92
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Indiana State Journal, March 3, 1862.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               My Days with the Diesel: The Memoirs of Clessie L. Cummins, Father of the Highway
                        Diesel. By Clessie L. Cummins. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Chilton Books, 1967. Pp. x, 190. Illustrations. $5.95.)
            This work is what it purports to be: memoirs. No sources are given, no credit or recognition is given
                    for anything already written on the subject, and no index is included.
            The subject, then, is Clessie L. Cummins. The life he describes is one full of
                    successes, but due notice is given to heartaches and disappointments.
            These memoirs trace the development of the high-speed diesel, which in itself is perhaps the prime
                    reason for the growth of the trucking industry. One story follows another in rapid order. Cummins
                    tested Marmon cars. He became chauffeur and handy man for William G. Irwin, famed banker and
                    entrepreneur of 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana. He sold one idea after another to Irwin and to Irwin's relatives:
                    support of his machine shop; support of what proved to be a wild venture in building small engines
                    for Sears, Roebuck and Company; financial backing during a decade of almost continual losses. Much
                    space is given to highly amusing accounts of "the Barnum and Bailey days" when,
                    lacking funds for a normal advertising campaign, Cummins pulled off one stunt after another-all with
                    excellent results.
            Great names appear throughout the book. Cummins, aided and abetted by William G. Irwin, sought
                    contacts and had interesting experiences with railroad magnates, automotive giants, government
                    heads, and, on occasion, foreign dignitaries. The pursuit of those whose influence might be helpful
                    in the growth of the engine company paid off in some cases. In a few instances, however, Cummins and
                    Irwin failed. Henry Ford, General Motors, Baldwin Locomotives, Walter P. Chrysler—all are
                    mentioned and listed as having failed to appreciate the potential of the Cummins product. But one
                    notes no bitterness in the chronicle over the hopes that died.
            There is a sad note in the account, and it is regrettable. The relations between the two truly great
                    men, William G. Irwin and Clessie L. Cummins, grew more and more strained as the years went by. The
                    untimely death of Irwin prevented the reconciliation which, this writer believes, might have
                    occurred.
            Basically, the work is an interesting account of the growth of a company whose life was given it by
                    two clever, intelligent, and noble men. The book is a contribution of value and should be widely
                    read by students of recent American history.
            
                    Indiana State University
                
            R. H. Gemmecke
         
         
            
               Father O'Hara of Notre Dame: The Cardinal-Archbishop of 
                            Philadelphia
                        . By Thomas T. McAvoy. (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1967.
                    Pp. xi, 514. Frontispiece, notes, index. $7.60.)
            Father McAvoy has written the first scholarly biography of a recent leader of the Catholic Church in
                    America. The author meticulously covers the details of O'Hara's career from his
                    Notre Dame  days and his wartime work as assistant bishop for
                    chaplains to his postwar achievements as bishop of Buffalo and then 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Although McAvoy seldom steps back from his coverage of O'Hara's
                    daily activities to an evaluation of the broad significance of his career, the subject nevertheless
                    emerges as the paradigm of ante-aggiornamento Catholic conservatism. O'Hara was devoted
                    above all to the spiritual salvation of Catholics by means of daily communion and plentiful
                    parochial schools. Distrustful of liturgical, political, or economic liberalism, he buttressed his
                    opposition to "dangerous influences" with the papal authority of Pius X and Pius
                    XII. Besides communism, O'Hara saw grave spiritual and moral dangers in nudity, birth
                    control, Hemingway, behaviorism, interfaith dialogue, Time magazine, socialized medicine, sociology,
                    and federal aid to education.
            As Notre Dame's prefect of religion in the 1920's and its president in the
                    1930's, O'Hara encouraged the diversification of the curriculum, a statistical
                    output of daily communions to match the school's athletic achievements, and the purging of
                    the library. Convinced that "a book in which God does not appear is against God"
                    (p. 305), he roamed the stacks looking for dangerous books. To help the nervous librarian,
                    O'Hara always preserved the title pages of the volumes to be burned.
            Painstakingly, perhaps painfully, the author recounts O'Hara's many crusades,
                    ranging from his efforts to stop the distribution of contraceptives in the wartime army to his
                    denunciation of "lay cardinals" who "out of the wealth of their ignorance
                    and inexperience … broadcast their views on Gregorian chant, homiletics, hermeneutics,
                    the Pauline privilege, and ecclesiastical art" (p. 122).
            O'Hara resented insinuations that Notre Dame valued football uppermost. The aims of the
                    university, he countered, were the salvation of souls, clean living, and the study of what he
                    referred to as "Catholic art, Catholic literature, Catholic science, Catholic philosophy,
                    Catholic economics, and Catholic sociology" (p. 171).
            Although the biography sometimes bogs down in the discussion of small controversies, it affords a
                    unique insight into the mind of American Catholicism in the days before President Kennedy and Pope
                    John XXIII. Unfortunately the reader is treated to a ghastly amount of graphic detail on
                    O'Hara's poor health. The man died well, but his death throes could better have
                    been summarized briefly instead of spread out through two chapters.
            
                    
                  
                            Washington
                         University
                
            Richard Jensen
         
         
            
               Joe Lane of 
                            Oregon
                        : Machine Politics and the Sectional Crisis, 1849-1861. By James E.
                    Hendrickson. Yale Western Americana Series. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1967. Pp. xiii, 274. Notes, illustrations, note on sources,
                    index. $6.50.)
            It is rather surprising that a second- or third-rate political figure such as Joseph Lane of Indiana
                    and 
                        Oregon
                     should be accorded two scholarly biographies, separated though they are by exactly a
                    quarter century. The answer, in part, may be that the earlier of these, The  Career of Joseph Lane, Frontier Politician by Sister M.
                    Margaret Kelly, is basically a biography, whereas the present book is largely a study of Lane as an
                    inveterate machine politician during his 
                        Oregon
                     career from 1848 to its denouement in 1860. Roughly one-third of the Kelly book is
                    devoted to Joe Lane's Indiana-Mexican life. Hendrickson, however, takes identity for
                    granted and initially refers to his subject simply as "General Joseph Lane, the ‘
                        Marion
                     of the Mexican War' and the ‘Cincinnatus of
                    Indiana"’ (p. 2), followed by one brief paragraph on Lane's pioneer
                    family background. In view of this limited background material it may well be that Hoosier interest
                    in this new book will be to observe how well one of its own fared in outside political fields.
            The present author has had one significant advantage over Sister Kelly in the preparation of his
                    book; he was able to use the Lane Papers now housed in the Lilly Library at Indiana University,
                    whereas his predecessor prepared her study prior to the availability for scholarly use of this
                    important manuscript collection. It is, however, incorrect for Hendrickson to declare, as he does in
                    his introduction, that the Lane Collection was "hitherto unused." It has been
                    previously used, and at least one article based solely upon the collection appeared in the Indiana University Bookman more than a decade ago. This comment does not mean to
                    imply that Hendrickson has been remiss in the use of materials related to his subject. He has made
                    exhaustive use not only of Lane manuscript sources but also of sources for persons associated with
                    him-including "the 
                        Salem
                     Clique."
            The product is a thorough and very readable treatise on machine politics as they were deftly managed
                    by 
                        Oregon
                    's first territorial governor, territorial delegate to Congress, and 
                        United States
                     senator.
            Hendrickson is, on the whole, somewhat move critical of Lane as a political figure than was Sister
                    Kelly. His over-all estimate is well summarized in a brief epilogue. He credits Lane with
                    "most faithful and energetic" (p. 253) service and with being an effective
                    representative in Congress. He declares Lane to have been "a colorful if not particularly
                    attractive personality and a man of unquestioned personal integrity" (p. 253). He was also
                    egotistical, ambitious, shrewd, and demagogic. If he stood for a principle at the time of sectional
                    crisis, it was "that the majority must not tyrannize over the minority" (p. 265).
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               The Galena Lead District: Federal Policy and Practice, 182.4-1847. By James E.
                    Wright. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for the Department of History, University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1966. Pp. xv, 148. Maps, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $3.26.)
            This slight volume is solely concerned with federal mineral policy in the Galena lead district,
                    1824-1847, and makes little or no effort to place the story of lead mining in its larger economic
                    setting. No  mention is made of federal mineral leasing policy
                    in 
                        Michigan
                     of the same period. It may not be fair to ask more of the author than he intended to
                    do, and certainly the first experience of the American government in dealing with its minerals
                    needed attention, yet one could wish for a treatment of lead mining of the scale and with the
                    technological knowledge that Rodman Paul has given to gold mining.
            The story is not a pleasant one. It reveals a low standard of public morals in officials charged with
                    the administration of the lands, the leases, and collections in the lead district and the tarnished
                    reputation of the entrepreneurs engaged in the mining. The author finds that the leasing system
                    seemed to work fairly well at the outset, which is somewhat surprising, but that it soon broke down.
                    Through dissimulation, influential people in the region, including prominent politicians, were able
                    to persuade the government that much lead-bearing land contained no minerals so that it could be
                    sold.
            Administration of the leasing, collection, and sale of the rent lead was handled by the War
                    Department rather than by the General Land Office. This divided responsibility did not work for the
                    best. The author has used the local deed records and is aware of the speculation in lead-bearing
                    land carried on by local people supplied with capital from the east. He has made no effort, however,
                    to show the extent of their purchases. He is concerned with the "profitability" of
                    mining and smelting, but the operations were on such a small, individualistic scale and participated
                    in so widely that he is not able to be very concrete. Some attention is given to the gradual shift
                    from mining to agriculture.
            Widespread discontent with leasing and a concerted drive in Congrese to end the system, led by that
                    redoubtable champion of free enterprise, "Old Bullion" 
                        Benton
                    , resulted in 1846 in what the author calls the "desocialization" of
                    the mineral reservation policy. The reserved lands were to be sold as other public lands were sold,
                    first at public auction and thereafter at private entry, except that no preemption rights were to be
                    recognized until after the public offering. Tracts on which mines were actually being worked were to
                    be offered in small lots at a minimum price of $2.50 an acre, and working mines then
                    under lease were not to be sold until the leases expired. Wright has produced a useful account of a
                    small segment of a big and much needed history of federal mineral policy.
            
                    Cornell University
                
            Paul W. Gates
         
         
            
               Newspapers on the 
                            Minnesota
                         Frontier, 1849-1860. By George S. Hage ([
                        St. Paul
                    ]: 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1967. Pp. ix, 176. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    $4.60.)
            Much newspaper history is no more than superficial chronology shored up by a liberal use of
                    quotations. The present book fits more into that genre than anything else, but not entirely. The
                    author,  professor of journalism at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , begins his account with the publication of the first newspaper in 
                        Minnesota
                     in 1849 and finds 1860 a justifiable cut-off point because that was the year the
                    telegraph line reached 
                        St. Paul
                    .
            He recognizes in the foreword that "One approaches research in a specialized segment of
                    regional history hoping it is justified as a part of the whole." Such an approach is
                    justified, but Hage forces the reader to perceive the relationships between his treatment of certain
                    characteristics of the frontier press and that which others have observed elsewhere. These include
                    the importance of public printing contracts to the foundation of early newspapers, the promotional
                    and town-boosting function of the frontier editor which had more than a little to do with
                    determining the trend of Western urbanization, and the extreme partisanship of most local
                    newspapers.
            However, Hage has set out to write a history of 
                        Minnesota
                     journalism during a limited period, and that is what he has accomplished, albeit with a
                    parochialism that is sometimes frustrating to the general reader. As almost always happens in
                    journalism history, he treats the newspaper as though it were an editorial entity only, with only
                    perfunctory attention to advertising and subscription. Nowhere does he treat the early newspapers as
                    business institutions or attempt to show their place in the emerging economy of territory and state.
                    But, then, the paucity of personal and business records of early editors often hamstrings the
                    historian in this area, too. While Hage does include the whole of 
                        Minnesota
                     journalism in his scope, his emphasis is on newspapers in the 
                        St. Paul
                     area. An appendix lists all the newspapers involved.
            Hage goes into considerable detail in recounting the political position of the major newspapers. This
                    effort, although appropriate to such a study, involves him in a forced rehash of early political
                    history in which the significance, if any, of the attendant editorial sound and fury is not clearly
                    indicated. At the same time, he does give a clear idea of the general pattern of content, which,
                    incidentally, shows no departure from the norm for that period.
            A frontier historian would appreciate more analysis of the background of the early editors, the areas
                    from which they emigrated to 
                        Minnesota
                    , and where they went next. Some of that information is present, to be sure, in brief
                    identifications and in the observation that lawyers, editors, and printers predominated among the
                    first 
                        Minnesota
                     editors.
            In all fairness to Hage's conscientious research, clarity of writing, and controlled
                    organization, it should be pointed out that his book is of considerable value to subject and area
                    specialists. Because this review is intended for non-
                        Minnesota
                     readers, it deliberately views the book from the vantage point of one who would have
                    wanted some useful generalizations or, at least, more indications of relationships.
            
               Univeristy of 
                            Texas
                        
               , El Paso
            Oliver Knight
         
         
         
            
               Aspects of the Fur Trade: Selected Papers of the 1965 North American Fur Trade
                        Conference. By Dale L. Morgan et al. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1967. Pp. 76. Notes, illustrations, index. $3.75.)
            The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society has published nine essays from the twenty-eight papers read before
                    its 1965 International Conference on the North American Fur Trade. Originally, these papers were
                    presented in the Winter, 1966, issue of 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History but this new book permits their wider circulation.
            The essays were selected to illustrate the variety of viewpoints and disciplines which have interests
                    in the North American fur trade. The choices were well made; if the remaining papers were of equal
                    quality, readers must regret their omission, although some degree of repetition has surely been
                    avoided by using the smaller number.
            The editors made a happy choice in using Dale L. Morgan's mature and contemplative
                    "The Fur Trade and its Historians" as the initial essay. The phrase
                    "publish-and-perish" is used to focus his ire on hasty or lazy writers; his
                    discussion of the significance of Hiram Martin Chittenden's The American Fur Trade of the
                    Far West is convincing; and his plea for extending the peripheral interests of historical research
                    is gracefully written.
            This reviewer found the essays by W. L. Morton and K. G. Davies concise and well-written
                    condensations of information on the North West Company and on the competition between it and the
                    Hudson's Bay Company. Davies' work is a welcome contribution to a subject too
                    often presented in redundant detail. David Lavender has a sure grasp of the essential and
                    interesting aspects of the American Fur Company, gleaned from the usual sources. This historical
                    novelist has much to teach the historian whose writing is pedestrian in style.
            J. D. Herbert and Merrill J. Mattes contribute pictorial essays of fur trade sites of 
                        Canada
                    , the Plains, and the Rockies. Both add to the understanding of the primitive aspects of
                    the fur trade in those regions. Wilcomb E. Washburn's "Symbol, Utility and
                    Aesthetics in the Indian Fur Trade" goes beyond its apparent themes to stress the relations
                    between traders and Indians, and the social and economic utility of their rendezvous as traders.
            John Witthoft deserts the object-centered study of the archaeologist to coordinate European and
                    American history with historical Indian movements to clarify the technological production of Indian
                    trade goods. He believes the archaeologist must deal with Indian culture in relation to European
                    technology.
            James L. Clayton accepts a larger challenge in his essay on the "Growth and Economic
                    Significance of the American Fur Trade, 1790-1890." A few of his assumptions are on
                    uncertain grounds, and he nearly ignores the influences on the trade made by style and fabric
                    changes. Nevertheless, Clayton moves with assurance between Asian-European and American fur markets,
                    while challenging the shibboleth of monopolistic efficiency in the trade. He proves that the Great
                    Lakes  area, especially the Kankakee River
                    region, was of paramount importance to the fur trade of the period, primarily because of its
                    production of raccoon skins. Both white and Indian fur producers played a major role in economic
                    development, at least in this region. Even more important, he gives incontrovertible evidence that
                    the bulk of fur production ultimately depended on the "egg-money trapper" of the
                    white settlements, while traders for Indian furs profited through their access to Indiana treaty
                    debt claims and annuities (p. 68). Despite this, Clayton clearly demonstrates his statement that the
                    fur trade "actually was of no importance to the economy of the 
                        United States
                     as a whole …" (p. 71).
            The citations are extensive and carefully presented, the numerous illustrations are well chosen and
                    placed in context, and the four maps are valuable additions. Through these essays, the society amply
                    indicates that its 1965 conference was worthwhile. The scholarly range of its program merits the
                    circulation this little book should enjoy.
            
                    Ball State University
                
            Bert Anson
         
         
            
               The Irish and Irish Politicians: A Study of Cultural and Social Alienation. By
                    Edward M. Levine. (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1966. Pp. ix, 241. Appendices,
                    notes, index. $6.00.)
            In an attempt to analyze the phenomenon of "the American Irish politician," Edward
                    Levine utilizes a third of his book to survey cultural, social, and political aspects of Irish
                    history from the Reformation to modern times. The genesis of the "Irish identity"
                    is examined and related to the centuries of religious persecutions, political privations, and
                    economic discrimination under British rule, which endowed the Irish with a keen, if not perverse,
                    appreciation of power. The fact that predominantly rural immigrant Irishmen became part of a
                    political power structure as eastern urban dwellers, rather than as midwestern farmers, does not
                    seem unusual to the author. As cotters or squatters most of them never had been part of the
                    propertied agricultural class in 
                        Ireland
                    .
            The chapter entitled "Symbols of Irish Identity and Alienation" will be of special
                    interest to the social historian and behavioral scientist alike. Levine views the power ascent of
                    the Irish clergy within the American Catholic Church as one of the key factors delaying the
                    "structural assimilation" of the Irish into the general population. And he
                    convincingly demonstrates the culpability of the parochial school in preserving Irish ethnic
                    identity. Conservatism isolated the Irish further, inhibiting their attitudes on nearly everything
                    from abolition to political reform. In addition, Irish assimilation was also hampered by forces in
                    middle-class Protestant America which were inimical to a working-class Catholic, alien group.
                    Despite discrimination the Irish regarded even such extreme nativist groups as the Know-Nothings
                    preferable  to some German immigrants who were imbued with
                    atheistic Marxist doctrines. "Apostacy was more reprehensible than heresy" (P.
                    91).
            Levine is strongest on the subject he knows best, the phenomenon of the contemporary Irish
                    politician. In the urban setting, the saloon and the police department are seen as institutions
                    which figured prominently in the "politicization" of the American Irish social
                    structure. Using the example of their church, Irish political organizations naturally became
                    hierarchical and authoritarian. However, in the 1960's Levine sees traditional traits
                    gradually dying out. Mayor Daley of 
                        Chicago
                     is viewed as a "transitional" Irish politician, who can now assume
                    status roles inconceivable a few decades ago. Generalizing upon his findings among the 
                        Chicago
                     Irish, Levine concludes that the current generation of Irish politicians is probably
                    the last of its kind. Admittedly, his conclusions are too thinly supported by the evidence which he
                    offers, but his contribution is valuable in that it provides the prologue for some future
                    Handlin-like work on the Irish in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            
                    Marquette University
                
            Thomas E. Hachey
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                         Rubber Company: A Case Study in Corporation Management. By Glenn D. Babcock.
                        Indiana Business Report No. 39. ([
                        Bloomington
                    ] : Bureau of Business Research, Indiana University, 1966. Pp. xviii, 477.
                    Illustrations, tables, notes, appendices, bibliography, index. $9.50.)
            This study of the 
                        United States
                     Rubber Company is divided into four main periods: the founding years from 1892 to 1901,
                    and the successive presidencies of Samuel P. Colt, Charles B. Seger, and Francis B. Davis, Jr.
                    During this time the organization took shape and grew, and procedures shifted and adapted to
                    changing business conditions. Profits vacilated and products multiplied as management sought answers
                    to new industrial demands.
            The early years emphasized organization, consolidation, and expansion in rubber footware production
                    and sales. Dozens of industrial plants were absorbed, each retaining its product identity, competing
                    fiercely with other articles produced by the corporation. During Colt's presidency
                    (1901-1918) the company expanded overseas and began producing tires and nonrubber related items.
                    Brand names identified exclusively with the the 
                        United States
                     Rubber Company were promoted (Keds and 
                        United States
                     Tire being the best known); research laboratories were established; production control
                    instituted; and employee relations improved. Company worth jumped from $47 million to
                    $134 million during this golden age.
            Charles B. Seger (president, 1919-1928) is characterized as lacking executive skill and knowledge.
                    His problems were legion-wartime strains, price and sales decline, heavy competition, deteriorating
                    labor relations, research mistakes, overly-centralized administration, large indebtedness, and
                    marketing shifts. All together they contributed to a  disastrous
                    financial picture. Francis B. Davis, Jr. (president, 1929-1942) took the company through the
                    critical depression years, while solving his inherited problems. He reorganized management, reduced
                    costs, lowered indebtedness, and introduced new products, aided by a hustling sales force. By 1935
                    the company again showed a profit.
            The basic documented facts of this history are useful reference guides to the growth of this great
                    American company. Unfortunately, the presentation lacks a harsh editor's pencil. Syntax and
                    diction need attention, and proportion is askew. Historical perspective is absent, for the company
                    is treated apart from America's industrial growth. Few explanations spell out the
                    "why" of specific company actions, and questions tumble endlessly into the
                    reader's mind.
            
                    Saint Mary's College
                
            Jack J. Detzler
         
         
            
               Technology in Early America. By Brooke Hindle. With a directory of artifact
                    collections by Lucius F. Ellsworth. Needs and Opportunities for Study Series. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for The Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1966. Pp. xix, 145.
                    Notes, index. $4.50.)
            This is a small book, but a significant one. Most historians agree that technology and its influence
                    on American history have been sadly neglected, and Brooke Hindle spells out just how great this
                    neglect has been.
            The first part of the book is a 28-page essay in which the author raises pertinent questions about
                    the history of technology in America before 1850 and offers suggestions for areas of basic research.
                    Hindle presents a number of challenging ideas. For example, he suggests that the driving force for
                    technical advance in the 
                        United States
                     may be found within technology itself rather than from technology as a means to some
                    desired end. Technological development may have been, he says, "a satisfying emotional
                    experience" (p. 24). Hindle also raises questions about the connections and
                    interrelationships between technology and American society as a whole. He calls for the placement of
                    technology in the full stream of American history rather than its insertion as a rivulet here and
                    there.
            Following this stimulating essay, which raises many more questions than it answers, the author
                    presents a 65-page annotated and critical bibliography of early American technology. This piece of
                    work is tremendously useful, especially for scholars in general American history, economics, and
                    historians of special aspects of technological development. After listing guides and general sources
                    in this field of study, the author cites special works dealing with the technology of agriculture
                    and food processing, mining and metals, military technology, transportation, engineering,
                    manufacturing, and other aspects of technological development. Hindle treats bibliographical
                    materials with the knowledge and judgment that come from mastery of a field.
            The last section of the book is by Lucius F. Ellsworth and includes a directory of artifact
                    collections. It is important for historians to  know the
                    literature of early technology, but it is also vital for them to learn where they can see the actual
                    artifacts which represent the nation's technical progress. Ellsworth fills an important gap
                    by telling his readers what they can find, and where. In general, this book will challenge and serve
                    its readers for many years.
            
                    University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
                
            Gilbert C. Fite
         
         
            
               The Indian Boundary in the Southern Colonies, 1763-1775. By Louis De Vorsey, Jr. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 267. Notes, maps, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            In this penetrative study a geographer makes a thorough search into the establishment of the boundary
                    lines between the Indians of the Appalachian frontier and their rapidly encroaching white neighbors.
                    The author treats the period from the issuance of the great proclamation to the eve of the American
                    Revolution as a unit of frontier advance. He deals with three main driving forces. The first was the
                    almost insoluable problem of developing an administrative procedure of frontier control following
                    the French and Indian War. The Proclamation Line of 1763 was a landmark attempt to bring about some
                    tenable solution for the spreading problem of land claimants. A second issue was the importance of
                    land itself in the dynamics of the westward movement and especially in its relationship to the
                    homelands of southern Indians. Finally there was the complex matter of establishing identifiable
                    lines and marks across the rugged Appalachian highlands.
            Involved in Indian claims to the eastern highlands were the Catawbas, Creek, Cherokee, Choctaw, and
                    Chickasaw. De Vorsey gives considerable attention to the historical background of these Indians.
                    Some discussion of variable land uses and Indian attitudes toward the territory is also included. Of
                    necessity a summary of administrative Indian policies is included, translated in terms of the
                    successes of John Stuart as a southern Indian agent.
            The strong pressures exerted in the earliest phases against the Cherokee frontier were of central
                    concern. These were felt along the 
                        Virginia
                     and Carolina frontiers, and from the Watauga area to 
                        Kentucky
                    . From 1750 and 1751, with the entry of land scouts Thomas Walker and Christopher Gist
                    west of the Appalachians, friction and confusion existed over the location of a dividing line
                    between colonial and Indian territories. This situation became especially complicated by the
                    agreements made at Hard Labor in October, 1768, and at Fort Stanwix the same month. The Hard Labor
                    and Lochaber agreements made in western 
                        South Carolina
                     involved the establishment of dividing lines.
            Historians of the westward movement and colonial policies have labored in darkness and in error on
                    the subject of the various lines that were established between the eastern flowing headstreams,
                    Chis-well's lead mines, and the mouth of the Kanawha River. None of
                    these lines provoked more controversey than did that established by John Donelson in 1771.
                    Fortunately De Vorsey has been able to clarify the facts behind these interesting surveys. He has
                    done the same for the 
                        Georgia
                     and East 
                        Florida
                     Indian boundaries.
            
            Throughout this book the reader is given an insight into the monstrous problems of locating lines, of
                    marking them, and of establishing and planting durable landmarks and witnesses. Calls were stated in
                    terms of miles, stream courses, and mountain ranges, but they were no less vague and confusing than
                    those given for small tracts of settler lands.
            In the final analysis the question arises as to the ultimate significance of an established Indian
                    boundary. Perhaps the Crown would have attempted to see that it was honored for a time at least, but
                    in the face of the American Revolution it had no real significance.
            This study is long overdue, but it needed to be done by a scholar with a geographical orientation.
                    The care with which this author has examined documentary materials and platted his maps gives the
                    reader confidence in the results.
            
                    University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
                
            Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               The Death of Slavery: The 
                            United States
                        , 1837-65. By Elbert B. Smith. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 225. Suggested reading, index. $5.00.)
            A group of radio lectures provided the first draft of this book, and unfortunately not enough
                    revisions were made before its printing. Admittedly, space limitations and the fact that the series
                    is directed at the general reader place certain restrictions on the authors, but several other
                    contributors to this series have overcome these handicaps and produced superior volumes. Among them
                    one might mention Samuel P. Hays, William E. Leuchtenburg, Harry L. Coles, and Charles P. Roland.
                    Smith has not performed as well as they.
            As a matter of fact, this volume is rather superficial and is characterized by far too little
                    analysis and penetrating interpretation. For example, the chapter on "Democracy and Its
                    Leaders" is primarily a series of capsule biographies of well-known figures; there is no
                    attempt to wrestle with the issues of the changing political situation and the almost constant
                    ferment and shifting of party allegiances of the period under study. The chapter called
                    "There Were Sections" adequately delimits the areas geographically, but it neither
                    describes the strong community of interests between the South and the Old Northwest nor indicates
                    the sharp differences existing within the various sections. Further, the treatment of the Compromise
                    of 1850 leaves chronology of developments confused and provisions of the measures obscure.
            More serious than the absence of analysis and synthesis is the inclusion of a number of misleading or
                    incorrect statements. A few of these must be noted. Did the Compromise of 1820 bar slavery in the
                    "vast area north of the southern border of 
                        Missouri
                     between the Mississippi River and the Rockies," and did
                    the South during the debates over the Compromise of 1850 "openly accept the right of the
                    federal government to prohibit slavery in the territories" (p. 7)? Was slavery abandoned in
                    the Northeast before the Revolution (p. 19)? Were there 4,216,000 slaves in 1860 (p. 20)? In 1824
                    did Calhoun  accept the "vice-presidency in the runoff
                    between Jackson and Adams" (p. 46)? Is it not taking too much poetic license to say that
                    "Overnight some 100,000 immigrants scrambling for riches poured into 
                        California
                     by land and sea, and every kind of lawlessness quickly followed" (p. 99)? And
                    just how does one arrive at the conclusion that "nearly 800,000 Negroes served voluntarily
                    in the Union armies" and there were 68,000 "losses" among these troops
                    (p. 193)? This would have meant that every free Negro, North and South, plus about 300,000 slaves
                    enlisted with the federal forces. Actually the number was less than 200,000.
            These and numerous other statements which fail to make fine, but important, distinctions
                    substantially decrease the value of this work. There are more than the allowable number of errors in
                    the suggested reading section, especially on page 210. For these and some of the other mistakes,
                    perhaps the editor of the series and the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press should share responsibility.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Chase C. Mooney
         
         
            
               Political Literature of the Progressive Era. Edited, with an introduction by
                    George L. Groman. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1967. Pp. xxii, 287. $6.50.)
            In the literature of the Progressive Era there are numerous collections of muckraking articles which
                    appeared in the popular magazines of the time. In contrast, little or no attention has been given to
                    the muckraking fiction that appeared during the same years. The present volume attempts to remedy
                    this imbalance.
            George L. Groman has assembled a collection designed to illustrate the diversity of American
                    political fiction during the Populist-Progressive period. He has also contributed a succinct
                    introduction and a series of brief sketches about the authors of the pieces. The result is a
                    well-planned and interesting book which adds to our knowledge of the reform drive that was
                    Progressivism.
            Groman has included in this study selections from a dozen writers, many well known and others largely
                    obscure. Some, like Hamlin Garland, Booth Tarkington, and William Allen White, were famous as
                    authors in other fields of literature. Men like Lincoln Steffens, David Graham Phillips, and Elliot
                    Flower were practicing muckraking journalists who for the moment turned their talents to fiction.
                    Brand Whitlock was better known as a diplomat and public official. Included also are excerpts from
                    Upton Sinclair's The Jungle and Frank Norris' The Octopus. Together the selections
                    range from the rural protests of the Populists to the more subtle exposures during the days of the
                    New Freedom.
            Frequently fiction can portray a situation with greater completeness and truth than can a documented
                    factual report. Certainly, Phillips has depicted the struggle for power in The Plum Tree more
                    meaningfully to the general reader than could a literal account of the  events on which it was based. The horror that was 
                        Chicago
                    's Packing-town was brought home to the average citizen far more fully in the
                    pages of The Jungle than in the report of the official investigation. Thus muckraking fiction
                    augmented the muckraking articles and added to the wave of literature of exposure which helped bring
                    on the reforms of the Progressive Era.
            The reviewer might criticize Groman for his selection of certain pieces to the exclusion of others.
                    Several of the stories are a bit repetitious and the chief figures are mere stereotypes. In a few
                    cases the accounts are brief and seem incomplete. But these are minor quibbles. In general the
                    selections are judiciously made and the impact of the volume is distinctly favorable. This
                    collection of muckraking fiction is a welcome and useful addition to the growing shelf of
                    Progressive literature.
            
                    Stephen F. Austin State College
                
            Robert S. Maxwell
         
         
            
               Dissertations in History: An Index to Dissertations Completed in History Departments
                        of 
                            United States
                         and Canadian Universities, 1873-1960. By 
                        Warren
                     F. Kuehl. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xi, 249. Index. $15.00.)
            This index includes only doctoral dissertations completed in history departments in the 
                        United States
                    . Any person seriously interested in historical research who will spend many hours
                    examining and using this index, as this reviewer has done, will find it most valuable.
            As the introduction notes, related indices are needed. Gathering data and editing this compilation,
                    however, was obviously a herculean task even without attempting to select and include dissertations
                    of an historical nature from other subjects and areas. The subject index to this volume is most
                    helpful, but there is no satisfactory substitute for examining the text page by page. Since the
                    index proper lists theses alphabetically by author, no author index was needed.
            Disssrtations in History is not without its errors, both of omission and commission. This situation
                    results largely because "historians, who are so concerned with the records of others, have
                    been so shoddy in keeping their own or in seeing that their institutions maintain complete files (p.
                    ix)." Compiler Kuehl reports that he did not find even a single instance of a university
                    whose records concerning its own dissertations were "found to be fully accurate or complete
                    (p. x)."
            An analysis of this index reveals various gaps in historical dissertations. For instance, authors of
                    doctoral theses have generally neglected topics in local and state history and they have also
                    neglected topics regarding the Middle West. Librarians, teachers, researchers, administrators, and
                    interested citizens alike should combine their efforts and take significant steps to remedy this
                    unfortunate situation. (Similar observations were offered by editor Kuehl himself in his discussion
                    of Disssrtations in History which appeared in the American Historical Association
                        Newsletter, June, 1965, pp. 19-26.)
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Woodrow Wilson. Volume 11, 1881-1884. Edited by
                    Arthur S. Link. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xvi, 680. Notes, illustrations, index. $15.00.)
            This, the second volume of Woodrow Wilson's papers, encompasses a formative period in his
                    life, from January 1, 1881, to January 31, 1884. During these years Wilson tried and abandoned the
                    practice of law, fell in and out of love with his cousin, Harriet Woodrow, met and won his future
                    wife, Ellen Louise Axson, and decided (ironically, almost by chance) to pursue his yearning for
                    literary-scholarly-political distinction via graduate study at the Johns Hopkins University. Nearly
                    half of this volume is devoted to the last six months of 1883, when Wilson's two most
                    important goals, acceptance by Miss Axson and return to "those subjects whose study most
                    delights me" (p. 357), were realized. Even if one repudiates the importance assigned to
                    these years by Bullitt and Freud's collaborative catastrophe, the documentary record
                    presented here in full, fascinating detail is of tremendous value for understanding Wilson the
                    public figure and the private man.
            This volume is continued evidence that The Papers of Woodrow Wilson, under Arthur S. Link's
                    skilled editorship, is a historical accomplishment of the first magnitude. It demonstrates that
                    necessary fusion of subject and editor which, unfortunately, is so rarely achieved. One might wish
                    that certain of Wilson's replies to missives from friends and relatives had been preserved;
                    one could raise gentle objection to type choice or to place of insertion of editorial notes. But
                    these quibbles do not detract at all from the volume's excellence.
            Notably, this volume contains many heretofore unpublished documents, especially the remarkable
                    exchange of letters between Wilson and Miss Axson. Their letters reveal two young adults expressing,
                    not some abnormal condition of mother or father substitution, but healthy attachment and growing,
                    deserved ~espect for each other's ideas and aspirations. The thoroughly-entranced
                    "Woodrow" who wrote such epic, fervent letters may have been somewhat priggish and
                    hypersensitive, but he did not lack the ability (occasionally) to laugh at himself or even (at
                    times) to throw off his hopeless didacticism. Wilson's descriptions in these letters of his
                    first term in 
                        Baltimore
                    , supplemented by notebooks and other writings, provide useful information about his
                    participation in and reaction to the changing, "experimental" academic environment
                    then taking hold at Johns Hopkins.
            Above all, the man Wilson was and was to become stands revealed in the record of these years. It
                    shows, for example, how much of a southerner he was in background, interests, and outlook. The later
                    influence of this factor is obvious from reading—in context— "Stray
                    Thoughts from the South," ‘(Culture and Education at the South," and
                    other writings. Finally, one finds ample expression of Wilson's awesome ambition, that
                    daemon which was driving him to satisfy his "love for composition … keen desire
                    to become a master of philosophical discourse and of the art of public speech," with the
                    ultimate purpose of making himself "an outside force in politics" (pp. 357-58).
                    Volume II demonstrates with what ardor and unbending determination Wilson set these goals for
                    himself and began to make his way toward their attainment.
            
                    University of 
                            Kansas
                        
               
                
            Theodore A. Wilson
         
         
         
            
               The American Revisionists: The Lessons of Intervention in World War I. By 
                        Warren
                     I. Cohen. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xv, 252. Notes, index. $7.95.)
            The author treats revisionism both in a historical sense and as a debate engaged in by scholars
                    seeking to shape American foreign policy. Although Cohen traces revisionism in the writings of five
                    men—Harry Elmer Barnes, Charles A. Beard, C. Hartley Gratton, Walter Millis, and Charles
                    C. Tansill—he neither commends nor condemns their ideas.
            The seeds of revisionism were sown in liberal periodicals such as The Nation and The New Republic. By
                    1924 revisionism found its champion in Harry E. Barnes who, within a year, was convinced that 
                        France
                     and Russia were equally responsible for the war and more blameworthy than either 
                        Austria
                     or 
                        Germany
                    . When the American Legion, the Ku Klux Man, and the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution denounced him, he goaded them with more revisionist articles.
            By 1926 the revisionist controversy focused on the American intervention of 1917. Barnes and others
                    denounced the pro-English influences which they alleged had duped Wilson. Although the 
                        United States
                     entered the war for altruistic reasons, they claimed that Wilson was the victim of his
                    pro-English associates and that during the war he had served as the "tool of the
                    interests."
            Hartley Gratton's book, Why We Fought (1929), revealed the shifting focus of revisionism. He
                    contended that Wilson's ambition to be a messiah through peace activities demanded entrance
                    into the war. Gratton saw no moral reason for intervention and concluded that America fought for
                    cash and commerce.
            In the early 1930's, Charles A. Beard argued that war had many causes and that international
                    capitalism was the best hope for peace. His revisionism, expressed in The Idea of National Interest
                    and The Open Door At Home, was based on the thesis that national interest lay in a high standard of
                    living for all citizens and an economy that was conducive to individual and social virtues. He
                    supported the Neutrality Acts of the mid-3930's in the hope for continuing peace.
            Walter Millis contended that the 
                        United States
                     stumbled into war in 1917 and that any resort to force was futile. He accused the
                    American people of creating the intervention sentiment which forced entrance into the war. He
                    questioned the validity of the Neutrality Acts of 1935 and 1936, and he saw dangers in their
                    mandatory application in future wars. Whereas Beard wanted mandatory enforcement of neutrality,
                    Millis urged flexibility. In the debate generated by the neutrality laws few Americans deeended the
                    1917 intervention. Beard, in The Devil's Theory of War, rejected the idea that submarine
                    warfare caused American intervention and blamed the "total military and economic
                    situation." He demanded an embargo on trade and travel and advocated feeding hungry
                    Americans, not warring Europeans. As Europe drifted toward war Millis viewed the world situation
                    without alarm and sought American acceptance of 
                        England
                    's appeasement policy.
            
            Charles C. Tansill, in America Goes to War (1938), viewed 
                        United States
                     foreign policy of 1914-1917 as a struggle between British realism on the one hand and
                    American idealism on the other. He blamed Edward House and Robert Lansing for Wilson's
                    blundering intervention and concluded that the foreign policy was designed to preserve the British
                    Empire. Tansill warned that America should not intervene again for the same purpose. Barnes shouted
                    that if the 
                        United States
                     made war again democracy was doomed, but Millis favored a rational intervention.
                    Shortly before the Japanese bombers rained their bombs on Pearl Harbor, Barnes wrote that American
                    entrance into the Pacific war was "sheer national idiocy."
            Cohen has done a scholarly job of presenting the controversial views of these five historians at a
                    time when America's foreign policy is again under scrutiny. His book desemes a wide
                    reading.
            
                    University of 
                            Florida
                        
               
                
            George Osborn
         
         
            F.D.R.'s Undeclared War, 1939-1941. By T. R. Fehrenbach. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, Inc., 1967. Pp. 344. Index. $6.60.)
            Fehrenbach's readable account of Roosevelt's efforts to align the 
                        United States
                     with Great Britain is designed for a popular audience. Although it is filled with
                    interesting, if often arguable, judgments about the American position and the policies of other
                    major powers before Pearl Harbor, it is based entirely on published materials and adds nothing to
                    our factual knowledge of the period.
            Fehrenbach accepts the thesis that an isolationist-minded America was brought to its senses by a
                    President who awoke earlier than most of his countrymen to the dangers the 
                        United States
                     would face in a Hitler-dominated world, and who used his superb political skills to
                    change America's course. In developing this thesis, Fehrenbach, like others before him,
                    overestimates both Roosevelt's vision and the magnitude of the gap between his views and
                    those of the public.
            Roosevelt, as his wartime consensus diplomacy was to show, shared the general American aversion to
                    power politics and failed to understand its essence. He resorted to idealistic and moralistic
                    pronouncements about the war and America's role not because he wished to lead or to mislead
                    the public, but quite simply because he believed them. The President was, of course, better informed
                    than the public about events in Europe and Asia, more aware of how they might adversely affect
                    American aims and interests, and more confident that the 
                        United States
                     could intervene to good effect, if necessary. He recognized somewhat earlier than most
                    that American security depended on the maintenance of Great Britain and the defeat of Hitler and he
                    was not wedded to the concept of unilateralism in foreign affairs, but he was also not prepared to
                    throw America's full weight into the balance at any time before Pearl Harbor.
            
            Public opinion lagged only slightly behind that of the President and was affected more by world
                    events than by anything Roosevelt said or did. Fehrenbach underestimates the significance of the
                    Senate's confirmation of Stimson and 
                        Knox
                     and the sponsorship of the Selective Service Bill by an anti-New Deal Democrat and a
                    Republican as indicators of widespread concurrence with administration policy. He takes little
                    account of the fact that the nomination of Willkie demonstrated the belief, even of the Republican
                    party, that no isolationist candidate could win the presidency in 1940. Nor does he recognize the
                    America First Committee for what it really was: a last-ditch effort to rally the opponents of
                    Roosevelt's foreign policy in the hope of stemming the tide.
            A number of overstatements and inaccuracies mar the book. For example, the cash-and-carry provisions
                    never applied to "all buying of raw materials by foreign powers" (p. 2) and had
                    already expired in March, 1939; Borah, Johnson, and Wheeler never served on the Nye Committee (p.
                    4); Roosevelt did not accept Hoover's tariff policies (p. 11); there were no
                    "urgent pressures" for a declaration of war from either the Cabinet or the State
                    Department in June, 1940 (p. 67); the Committee to Defend America First was formed not two days
                    after but two months before the destroyer deal, and its name was changed to America First Committee
                    prior to the date mentioned by Fehrenbach (pp. 163-64); and the 
                        United States
                    -British staff talks early in 1941 produced contingency plans and not formal American
                    commitments to specific actions (pp. 222-26).
            Fehrenbach, in short, has produced an interesting, readable, but not particularly enlightening book.
            
                    Union College
                
            Manfred Jonas
         
         
            
               The Diplomacy of a New Age: Major Issues in U.S. Policy since 1945. By Dexter
                    Perkins. International Studies Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1967. Pp. 190. Bibliographical note, index.
                    $6.75.)
            Dexter Perkins, one of the most distinguished historians of American diplomacy, has had a long and
                    amazing professional life. He has retired from two teaching careers, one at the University of 
                        Rochester
                     and the other at Cornell university, and since his last retirement in 1959 has kept
                    active lecturing and writing on American foreign relations. In 1966 he was visiting professor for
                    the Patten Foundation at Indiana University. This book is an outgrowth of his Patten Lectures.
            As could be expected from a book based on lectures, this volume offers a series of essays on selected
                    topics, such as the Marshall Plan, that are loosely connected and focused most often on 
                        United States
                     relations with the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . Despite the brevity of the book and the selectivity of the author, these essays do
                    analyze or touch on most  of the important developments in
                    American foreign policy since 1946. Since the book covers ground well known through other work, its
                    unique qualities must be sought in Perkins' analyses, interpretations, and judgments. He
                    does not disappoint the reader. His mind appears to be as incisive as ever; if the reader is willing
                    to accept his basic premises, his judgments are sound and logical.
            Two notable themes run through these essays. The first states that the outstanding feature of the
                    past thirty years is the development of massive American economic and military power and the use of
                    that power in the nation's expanding global commitments. Few historians would quarrel with
                    this assumption. A number of them might, however, find it difficult to accept the implications of
                    Perkins' second theme, that the 
                        United States
                     has made good use of its vast influence. What flows from this second theme is a defense
                    of American foreign policy in almost all instances, even in such controversial matters as the
                    nonrecognition of Red 
                        China
                    , the intervention in the 
                        Dominican Republic
                     in 1965, and the war iii 
                        Vietnam
                    . This defensive attitude gives the deceptive impression that Perkins sees foreign
                    policy in black and white. The American side invariably comes out as the upholder of justice and
                    righteousness; the other side usually emerges as being wrong and bad. So the result, for those who
                    are critical of recent American policies, is a conservative analysis of foreign policy of the past
                    thirty years.
            This reviewer agrees with Perkins' major theme, and also with many of his moral judgments.
                    On the whole, Americans have used their great power with remarkable restraint.
            In presenting his assessments Perkins is seldom dogmatic and always calm, urbane, and civilized.
                    Everywhere, even when one might boggle at his judgment, he is shrewd and knowing. For example, he
                    points out that the scholar and the statesman have to go beyond fact to understand foreign policy.
                    "The roots of diplomacy," he writes, "are to be found in feeling, feeling
                    often rationalized by the appropriate symbols, but feeling none the less. To understand this fact is
                    the business of every student of foreign policy" (p. 18). Wisdom such as this justifies the
                    reading and re-reading of this gracefully written and charmingly provocative book by a man whose
                    mind seems to stay forever young.
            
                    University of Califomia, Santa Barbara
                
            Alexander DeConde
         
         
            
               Farm Policies and Politics in the Truman Years. By Allen J. Matusow. 
                  
                            Harvard
                         Historical Studies, Volume 80. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. 267. Notes, index. $7.50.)
            This volume is a lucidly written and readable analysis of a complex series of issues evolving out of
                    a complex period of history. The postwar years posed unique problems for the 
                        United States
                    , some of the most urgent of them farm problems. Unprepared for the awesome  responsibilities of the presidency, Matusow writes, "Truman in
                    his first term tended to rely on his subordinates to perform the real tasks of
                    policy-making" (pp. 2-3). Too often his agricultural policies reflected the tendency of the
                    policy makers to read too close a parallel between past history and present events. Haunted by the
                    fear that the end of the war would find the 
                        United States
                     holding the huge surpluses that had been a prelude to depression in the
                    1930's, the Department of Agriculture hastened to deal with the problems of abundance, but
                    did so at first by imitating New Deal policies, ignoring the fact that the situations that had made
                    those policies valid had long since changed. Further, the Department of State, viewing problems from
                    another perspective, and remembering the adverse effects of trade rivalries during the depression,
                    saw free trade as the answer.
            Going separate ways, overwhelmed by short-range problems, often working at cross-purposes, planners
                    in both departments nonetheless contributed many novel and purposeful ideas. That their early labors
                    fell short of the mark was simply because the technological revolution in agriculture in the
                    1940's was so rapid and far-reaching as to be beyond the comprehension of even the most
                    thoughtful student of economics. Hence, preoccupied by immediate and urgent problems, the Truman
                    administration was not prepared to cope with the larger changes wrought by that revolution. Indeed,
                    as the author bluntly states, "Only the famine in Europe and the Korean War saved the
                    farmer from depression in the Truman years" (p.115).
            Thus saved from the maelstrom of depression, the Truman administration eventually faced squarely a
                    veritable maze of conflicts to be reconciled-petty but bitter jealousies among members of the
                    administration; the hopes and fears of the individual farmer as opposed to the aggregate problems of
                    agriculture; economic ideologies versus political reality; and, perhaps hardest of all, economic
                    nationalism as opposed to international responsibility.
            What finally evolved out of these troubled years was no panacea, no simple system for agriculture,
                    but a series of alternative plans, of which the most comprehensive (and controversial) was the
                    defeated Brannan Plan. Perhaps the true measure of Truman's farm policy is less its
                    accomplishments than the examples it set. As Matusow concludes, "with the approach of a
                    world crisis whose potential gravity recalls the famine years after World War 11, the experiences of
                    policymakers in the Truman years assumes an unwelcome relevance" (p. 252).
            This is a well-organized, meticulously researched book. Matusow does a superb job of analyzing the
                    interaction between domestic issues and international commitments. Surveying the complex, shifting
                    patterns of agriculture, he makes a brilliant argument for creative thought as an alternative to the
                    politics of drift that have too often marked American agriculture, presenting his argument with
                    candor, frankness, and often subtle wit.
            
                    Murray State University
                
            Harold Lew Wallace
         
         
         
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Lyndon B. Johnson … 1965. Book I, January 1 to May
                        91, 1965. Book II, June 1 to December 31, 1965. (
                        Washington
                    , U.S. Government Printing Office, 1966. Pp. xviii, 1206. Illustrations, appendices,
                    indices. Each, $6.25.)
            In these two volumes are most of the public messages and statements-663 in all-of President Lyndon B.
                    Johnson for the year 1966. The books are part of a series begun in 1957 in response to a
                    recommendation by the National Historical Publications Commission. To date volumes have appeared
                    covering the administrations of Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy, and one on Johnson from
                    November 22, 1963, through the year 1964.
            The documents for 1965 have a large range: the President's toast to President Yameogo of
                    Upper Volta; transcripts of presidential news conferences; messages to Congress; remarks to Italian
                    artists, Boy Scouts, and the Antarctic Policy Group; radio and television addresses; birthday
                    greetings to former-President Truman, commencement addresses; statements on the deaths of such
                    individuals as Winston Churchill and Bernard M. Baruch; congratulatory messages to American
                    astronauts and Soviet cosmonauts; statements on signing legislation, including the splendid remarks
                    given in the Capitol rotunda on August 6, 1965, when Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act.
            What is the merit of these publications? As any novice in the study of history knows, there often is
                    a large difference between the public and private statements of a political leader. Of course what
                    the president has to say to a visiting delegation of the Y.M.C.A. really is not very important.
                    Still, public messages and statements offer insight to the ideas and policies of a leader, and the
                    student of Johnson or any other occupant of the White House must take them into account. These
                    compilations, then, have the virtue of saving the historian the arduous task of paging through the 
                        New York
                     Times Index and the Times itself in search of the President's public remarks;
                    everything is neatly set out in these nicely bound and indexed books. The contents also reveal the
                    endless trivia that command the time of the man whose judgment—or lack of
                    it—can determine whether the world survives.
            A final thought: here are nearly 1,200 double-column pages. The President's staff, of
                    course, writes most of the statements uttered by the President or given over his signature. But does
                    he have to read every word of it?
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John Edward Wiltz
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
                    
                  Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy. Volume I, Milroy Family
                            Letters, 1862-1863; Volume 11, Diary of General Robert Huston Milroy,
                        1865; Volume 111, Court of Inquiry and Proceding and Subsequent Relevant
                            Materials; Volume IV, Supplementary Material. Compiled by Margaret B.
                        Paulus. (The author, 1966. Pp. 639, 63, 194, 216.) These four volumes of General Robert Huston
                        Milroy's Papers principally concern his service in the Civil War. As the
                        author's Preface forth-rightly states in its initial sentence: "The purpose of
                        this work is to rectify I hope at least in part, the unfavorable appraisal of the military
                        career and conduct of General Robert Huston Milroy." Mrs. Paulus feels "that
                        the jealously and competition of a number of Union Army Officers formed the basis of many of the
                        discrediting charges against General Milroy." She notes that President Lincoln later
                        exonerated the general but points out that Milroy was not allowed to publish the Court of
                        Inquiry or his own report of the Winchester retreat until 1890; thus the stigma of having
                        directed a cowardly and disorderly retreat remained with him. (This omission caused him to be
                        considered as a coward and greatly diminished his subsequent military service.) This
                        comprehensive presentation of Milroy Papers should encourage a painstaking and apparently
                        merited reevaluation of the general's Civil War services. Meanwhile, all of the Milroy
                        Papers should be deposited in some appropriate reputable library; otherwise, at least some
                        researchers in Civil War military history are almost certain not to take these volumes at face
                        value for fear that the available record is not complete.
                    
                  Indiana Population Projections, 1965-1985. Volume I, Total for the
                            State, Economic Regions, and Counties; Volume II, By Age Group and Sex for
                            the State, Economic Regions, and Counties. By the Bureau of Business Research, Graduate
                        School of Business, Indiana University. (
                            Bloomington
                        : Graduate School of Business, Indiana University, 1966. Pp. xiv, 270; vi, 336.
                        Graphs, tables, appendices. $10.00.) These two volumes, prepared by the Bureau of
                        Business Research for the Division of Planning of the Indiana Department of Commerce, offer
                        projections concerning Indiana population to 1986. These projections-not predictions-are offered
                        by counties and economic regions and for the state as a whole. They are also offered by age
                        groups and by sex. The Introduction explains the basis for and nature of the projections used as
                        well as how the data were gathered and organized. It is also explicit in explaining that
                        projections are in part based upon particular assumptions which will not be entirely valid in
                        all instances. Moreover, as also noted, a study of the projections themselves may lead to
                        efforts and programs significantly affecting the nature and size of the population of any given
                        area. Nevertheless, used thoughtfully and wisely, the data here available should be quite
                        helpful to businessmen, school administrators, city and county planners, and the like.
                    
                  A Second Federalist: Congress Creates a Government. By Charles 5. Hyneman and
                        George W. Carey. (
                            New York
                        : Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1967. Pp. xvii, 326. Notes, appendix. Paperbound.) This
                        volume consists of selections from the Annals of Congress, 1789-1824, concerning important
                        problems which arose in creating the government  of the 
                            United States
                         under the Constitution of 1787. Highly selective— limitations of space
                        alone make this essential—it offers, with editorial commentary, extracts from the
                        speeches of members of Congress concerning the interpretation of the new federal constitution,
                        the division of powers between the federal government and the states, the nature and importance
                        of republican government, and other political questions. The title, A Second Federalist, aptly
                        and appropriately suggests that the views and interpretations of early members of Congress merit
                        increased consideration in studies regarding the establishment of the central or general
                        government of the 
                            United States
                        .
                    
                  The Frontier Thesis: Valid Interpretation of American History? Edited by Ray
                        Allen Billington. American Problem Studies. (
                            New York
                        : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1966. Pp. 122. Illustrations, notes, guide for further
                        reading. Paperbound, $1.95.) This booklet affords a useful introduction to the Turner
                        thesis, its defenders, and its adverse critics. The Introduction, presumably by Billington,
                        comments on basic ideas set forth in the frontier thesis of Turner and offers commentary
                        regarding both support for and opposition to Turner's views on "The
                        Significance of the Frontier in American History" since the publication of his famous
                        essay in 1893. Then comes the essay itself, followed by observations and interpretations, pro
                        and con, by George W. Pierson, Fred A. Shannon, Benjamin F. Wright, John D. Barnhart, Merle
                        Curti, Earl Pomeroy, Harry C. Allen, and other historians. Anyone who reads these selections
                        with care will have been introduced to the basic questions raised by the Turner thesis and will
                        then be prepared to study the books and articles suggested for further reading at the end of the
                        booklet. Moreover, by this time he should also be aware that historians differ widely regarding
                        even the principal ideas contained in the Turner thesis as well as their validity or relevance
                        to American experience.
                    
                  Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                                United States
                            : Harry S. Truman … 1950; Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                                United States
                            : Harry S. Truman … 1951; Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                                United States
                            : Harry S. Truman … 1952-53. (
                            Washington
                        : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1965-1966. Pp. xxxvii, 866; xxxviii, 749; xlii,
                        1334. Illustrations, appendices, indices.)
                    
                  Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                                United States
                            : Lyndon B. Johnson … 1963-1964. Book I, November
                            22, 1969 to June 90, 1964; Book 11, July 1, 1964 to December 31, 1964 (
                            Washington
                        : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1965. Pp. lxxvi, lxx, 1709. Illustrations,
                        appendices, indices.) The format, content, and usefulness of the Public Papers of the Presidents
                        of the 
                            United States
                         are now too well understood by historians to require further comment in these
                        columns. The above and already published volumes complete the series from its beginning with the
                        commencement of the Truman administration in 1945 through the year 1965 for the Johnson
                        administration. Even a cursory review of this series affords vivid and numerous illustrations of
                        the complex and unusually troublesome problems which have faced the American
                        people—and its presidents—during the two decades since World War 11.
                
            
            In these volumes it is especially difficult to see the forests as well as the trees, but needed
                    perspectives concerning pressing domestic and international questions would be far more difficult to
                    develop without them.
            Other Books and Pamphlets Received: 
                  
                     Seventeenth-Century America: Essays in Colonial History. Edited by James
                            Morton Smith. (
                                Chapel Hill
                            : The University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Press, for The Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1959. Pp. xv,
                            238. Notes, index. Paperbound, $1.95.)
                  
                     The Governor and The Rebel: A History of Bacon's Rebellion in 
                                    Virginia
                                . By Wilcomb E. Washburn. (
                                Chapel Hill
                            : The University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Press, for The Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1957. Pp. xv,
                            248. Maps, notes, index. Paperbound, $2.46.)
                  Propaganda and the American Revolution, 1763-1783. By Philip Davidson. (
                                Chapel Hill
                            : The University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Press, 1941. Pp. xvi, 460. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index.
                            Paperbound, $2.95.)
                  The Jeffersonian Republicans in Power: Party Operations, 1801-1809. By Noble E.
                            Cunningham, Jr. (
                                Chapel Hill
                            : The University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Press, for The Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1963. Pp. ix,
                            318. Illustrations, bibliographical note, index. Paperbound, $2.95.)
                  
                     The Jeffersonian Republicans: The Formation of Party Organization,
                            1789-1801. By Noble E. Cunningham, Jr. (
                                Chapel Hill
                            : The University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Press, for The Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1957. Pp. x,
                            279. Notes, bibliographical note, appendix, index. Paperbound, $2.95.)
                  
                     A Nation Moving West: Readings in the History of the American Frontier.
                            Edited by Robert W. Richmond and Robert W. Mardock. (Lincoln, Neb.: University of 
                                Nebraska
                             Press, 1966. Pp. viii, 366. Bibliography, index. Paperbound, $1.95.)
                  
                     The Valley of Shadows: The Coming of the Civil War in Lincoln's
                                Midwest: A Contemporary Account. By Francis Grierson. Edited by Bernard DeVoto.
                            (N.Y.: Harper & Row, 1966. Pp. xlii, 278. Editor's note. Paperbound,
                            $1.95.)
                  
                     The Civil War Letters of Perry Mayo. Edited by Robert W. Hodge. (East
                            Lansing, Mich.: Museum, 
                                Michigan
                             State University, 1967. Pp. 248. Illustrations. Paperbound, $1.00.)
                  
                     The Framing of the Fourteenth Amendment. By Joseph B. James. (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill.: University of 
                                Illinois
                             Press, 1956. Pp. vii, 220. Appendix, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                            $1.45.)
                  
                     The Story of Surnames. By L. G. Pine. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle
                            Co., Inc., 1965. Pp. 152. Index. $4.76.)
                  
                     The Story of Heraldry. By L. G. Pine. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle
                            Co., Inc., 1966. Pp. 164. Frontispiece, illustrations, glossary, index.
                        $4.75.)
               
            
         
         
         
            Subscriptions to Indiana Magazine of History
            
            Subscriptions to the Indiana Magazine of History are available at $5.00
                    annually, and check or money orders therefor should be addressed to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    Library 48, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Nevertheless, prospective subscribers are reminded that membership in
                    the Indiana Historical Society automatically includes subscription to the Indiana Magazine of
                    History as well as other publications and benefits. The catagories of membership available in the
                    society are as follows:
            
               
                  ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP
                  $10.00 per year
               
               
                  SUSTAINING MEMBERSHIP
                  $25.00 per year
               
               
                  CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP
                  $50.00 per year
               
               
                  LIFE MEMBERSHIP
                  $200.00
               
            
            Persons desiring the magazine through society membership should send their checks or money orders to
                    the Indiana Historical Society, Room 409, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            Both current and new subscribers who wish to make direct subscription to the Indiana Magazine of
                    History for the year 1968 are encouraged to do so before February 1,1968.
         
         
            Papers of Claude Matthews Desired
            Victor L. Fields, graduate student in speech at Indiana University, is writing an analysis of the
                    rhetoric of the late Claude Matthews of Indiana. Matthews was secretary of state of Indiana from
                    1890 to 1892 and governor from 1893 to 1897. Matthews' name was placed in nomination for
                    the presidency at the Democratic convention in 1896. Speeches, letters, newspaper clippings, or any
                    other information on Matthews' public or private life are desired. Address all
                    correspondence to Victor L. Fields, Speech Annex, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
