
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 40, Issue 1, pages 1-102. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:40+issue:1+year:1944&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana's Reaction to the Submarine Controversy of 1915
            CEDRIC C. CUMMINS
            The year 1915 was crucial in American relations with the World War belligerents. Under the hard
                    impact of that year's unescapable developments, the nation formulated its policy toward
                    English and German violations of American sea rights-a policy which was to constitute one of the
                    major causes of war with 
                        Germany
                    . It is the purpose of this study to trace the evolution of that policy in a fairly
                    typical state.1
            
            The year opened with a debate on the propriety of American munition sales to the fighting nations,
                    centering upon the embargo resolution which the German-American member, Richard Bartholdt, had
                    introduced in Congress. In Indiana, German sympathizers took the lead in the campaign, and
                    throughout the early months of 1915 they pushed the drive with vigor and near-desperation. If they
                    had known that they must succeed or fail before the "Lusitania" had made a few more crossings, they
                    would have worked even more frantically.
            Indiana congressmen were showered with letters, telegrams, and resolutions threatening political
                    retaliation for adverse votes, while the general public was pursued by means of editorials,
                    "Letters to the Editor," pamphlets, and public meetings.2
                    Irish and German efforts were pooled, and under the name of the American Neutrality League they held
                    joint 
                  
                     1 This article is a continuation of one that appeared in a previous
                            number of this journal: Cedric C. Cummins, "Indiana Looks at the World War,
                            1914," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXVII (1941), 307-44. Both were prepared in seminars in
                            Recent 
                                United States
                             History at Indiana University under the direction of Dr. R. Carlyle Buley.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, February 19, 1915, p. 4; 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Argus, January 8, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Brazil
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, January 26, 1915, p. 4.
               
                     embargo meetings throughout the country. From a platform
                    prominently bedecked with the American flag, speakers at these gatherings argued for a stoppage of
                    the arms traffic on the grounds of "real neutrality" and Christianity and predicted that such action
                    would bring a cessation of war "in 90 days." Responsibility for the unholy sales was placed
                    on the triumvirate of munition makers, "shylocks of high finance," and "Tory
                    newspapers." Sarcastic references were made to "kind Uncle Sam" who talked of neutrality
                    but handed a blackjack to one set of belligerents, and who dispatched nurses and medicine to bind up
                    the wounds of Europe and at the same time sent guns to inflict more wounds. The audience cheered
                    proposals for the establishment of a "higher and better international law" and hissed references to 
                        England
                    , J. P. Morgan, the DuPonts, and Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan-strange
                    company for "The Commoner"! At the close of the session, a previously prepared resolution was read,
                    unanimously adopted, and forwarded to the local editors and congressmen.3
            
            The churches that opposed all war, such as 
                        Quaker
                     and Mennonite, the Socialists, and other positive pacifists gave added support to the
                    crusade, and from the evangelistic rural and small town sections came a scattering of passive
                        approval.4 Unmistakably, however, the greater part of the public was opposed
                    to an arms embargo, for whether they came out squarely against it with ringing declarations or
                    simply stood aside from all pro-embargo activity, the result was a vote against a change in existing
                    policy. For one thing, the dominant role played by the pro-Germans caused the embargo movement to be
                    associated, not with neutrality, but its opposite. The public knew that if stopping munition 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, February 9, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 9, 1915, p. 9; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, January 12, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 News, February 11, 1915, p. 1; 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Argus, January 8, 1915, p. 1. See also Clifton J.
                            Child, "German-American Attempts to Prevent the Exportation of Munitions of War,
                            1914-1915," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1915-), XXV (1938-1939), 351-68; Carl Wittke, German-Americans
                                and the World War (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1936).
                  
                     4
                            
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, Democrat, September 18, 1914, p. 6; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, July 13, 1915, p. 14; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Courier, February 13, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, American Friend, passim; Scottsdale, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Gospel Herald, January 21, 1915, p. 681; Francis M. Wilcox,
                                Seventh-day Adventists in Time of War (
                                Washington
                            , 1936).
               
                     exports would end the war in ninety days, it could do so only by
                    insuring a victory of previously prepared 
                        Germany
                    . That, most of them did not want. Furthermore, it was pointed out that the right of
                    private citizens of a neutral country to sell munitions to belligerents was a long-accepted
                    principle of international law-subject only to rules governing blockade and contraband-and a
                    principle for which the 
                        United States
                     had many times contended.5 An abrupt change of that rule in the
                    midst of war would be an unneutral act that would withhold from the Allied powers rights belonging
                    to them under international law.6 "It is the business of a belligerent operating
                    on the high seas, not the duty of a neutral, to prevent contraband from reaching an enemy,"
                    and it would be "an act of partiality on the part of this government" to "equalize the difference
                    due to the relative naval strength of the belligerents," ran a much-quoted expression of
                        opinion.7 It was further contended that instead of promoting peace, an
                    embargo would place a premium on militarism by necessitating the accumulation in time of peace of
                    great stores of fighting equipment. Since the 
                        United States
                     was one of the non-military nations, the establishment of a precedent that would
                    prevent it from buying needed war stocks abroad when at war was labeled "highly
                        unpatriotic."8 In addition, and with emphasis, opposition to the
                    embargo was placed on the basis that its adoption would "shut down many of our largest factories"
                    and "throw 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 23, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, January 9, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Star, February 20, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, February 8, 1915, p. 4. The Literary Digest polled 1,000 editors on the embargo question. Of the 440
                            who replied, 244 opposed, 167 favored, and the remainder were undecided. See Literary Digest (
                                New York
                            , 1890-1938), L (1915), 225-26.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, Democrat, January 27, 1915, p. 2; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, January 1, 1915, p. 8;
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Herald, April 18, 1915,
                            p. 4; 
                                Brazil
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, January 26, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     7 These were the words of Bryan in his letter to Senator William J.
                            Stone of January 20. See 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, News-Times, January 25, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 News, January 28, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Valparaiso
                            , Indiana, Daily Vidette, January 25, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     8
                            
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Argus, January 2, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, Democrat, February 11, 1915, p. 2. Former President
                            William Howard Taft was quoted as saying "we would be most foolish to adopt a policy of
                            refusing to sell arms and ammunition to belligerent powers which, if it was pursued against
                            us when we were driven into war, would leave us helpless." 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, February 24, 1915, p. 8.
               
                     thousands of men out of work." Spokesmen for
                    manufacturers, retail merchants, organized laborers, and farmers were a unit on this score, though
                    the first spoke aggressively; the second and third, defensively; and the last, apologetically.9 In the terse words of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Times, "Instead of occupying a neutral position, this country would incur a
                    financial loss by the abandonment of a legalized traffic, in order to aid 
                        Germany
                    ."10
            
            Meanwhile, American commerce on the Atlantic was being buffeted by Allied efforts to blockade the
                    Central Powers and by a new German submarine program. But despite their grave portent for the
                    future, these developments attracted only limited initial attention in Indiana, and the lack of
                    spectacular incidents caused public opinion to crystalize slowly and irregularly. Under those
                    circumstances, perhaps the most fruitful method of tracing the reactions of the Hoosiers through the
                    early months of the controversy is to follow the daily comments of a typical newspaper, such as the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune. This paper was pro-Ally but not pugnaciously so. Being Republican in
                    politics, its expressions were not mere reflections of those of the national administration.
            Three days before the beginning of the year the 
                        United States
                     had dispatched its first strong protest note of the war. It had gone to 
                        England
                     and detailed a cumulative list of objectionable sea-practices dating from the early
                    days of the war, most of which concerned British attempts to shift the burden of proof from the
                    belligerent admirals to the neutral shippers. A full-page headline, "Wilson Demands Big
                    Damages Of 
                        England
                    ," brought the news to the attention of the readers of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune.
               11 The editor applauded the note, asserting that the "
                        United States
                     not only spoke for itself in the matter but also for every other neutral
                    nation." Furthermore, "the vigorous and direct protest ought to go far in
                    silencing the assertions that this country is pro-Allies in its sentiment. The note to Great 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 6, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Brazil
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, January 26, 1915, p. 4; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, March 16, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Commercial, January 11, 1915, p. 1 and January 21, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Union, September 25, 1914, p. 4; Thirty-first Annual Convention of the
                            Indiana State Federation of Labor, Proceedings (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 91.
                  
                     10
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Times, January 7, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     11
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, December 29, 1914, p. 1.
               
                     Britain shows that we are pro-nothing except
                        pro-neutral."12 On January 10, 1915, the English made a preliminary
                    reply that left the editor disappointed but still optimistic: 
                        About all that can be or ought to be said concerning the British reply to the American note
                            of protest sent some days ago to Great Britain is that it is apparently satisfactory as far
                            as it goes. Being merely preliminary in character, it does not go to the end of the
                                matter.13
                  
                    
            
            The next development to catch the editorial eye was the controversy over the "Dacia," a
                    formerly German-owned and interned merchantman that was preparing to carry a cotton cargo to 
                        Germany
                     for its new German-American owner. In an editorial of January 21 he used the English
                    threat to seize the "Dacia" as an argument against the pending ship-purchase bill. For, he reasoned,
                    if the government bought interned German ships and the Allies confiscated them when they appeared on
                    the ocean, it would create a "grave risk of becoming involved in the European war."14 The following day he took up a discussion of the "Dacia" case on its own
                    merits, criticizing those who argued that the duties of neutrality demanded that the 
                        United States
                     prevent the ship from leaving port. Let it sail, said the editor; a British prize court
                    will determine its status. He did not appear to be excessively concerned as to which way the
                    decision would go, for like most of the public, he regarded the issue primarily as one between 
                        Germany
                     and the Allies.15
            
            The next move in the commercial war was 
                        Germany
                    's, and on February 4 she issued the first of her submarine orders, proclaiming
                    that the waters around Great Britain 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., December 30, 1914, p. 6. For similar statements see Seymour,
                            Indiana, Republican, January 4, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, Democrat, January 1, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Hartford City
                            , Indiana, Telegram, December 30, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 30, 1914, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, December 31, 1914, p. 6; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, January 1, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Courier, December 31, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     13
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, January 11, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., January 21, 1915, p. 8. Republican leaders in Congress made
                            frequent use of this argument in their efforts to defeat the administration's plan
                            to create a government-owned merchant marine by buying interned ships of the combatant
                            nations.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., January 22, 1915, p. 8. This editor's unexcited reaction
                            to the "Dacia" controversy was typical of the state. As far as Indiana was concerned,
                            Ambassador Walter Hines Page's artful suggestion that a French, not an English,
                            warship should do the arresting was helpful but far from vital.
               
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     were to be considered a war zone in which all enemy vessels, merchant as well as war,
                    were to be destroyed. The news filled one column of the front page, but no editorial comment was
                    forthcoming on this or succeeding days. In fact, most papers fell short of even this limited
                    emphasis. In the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News the account of the German order did not so much as begin at the top of the
                    page. The Seymour Republican gave it three inches of space, and the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Daily Telephone buried it on the last page.16 On February 10
                    the State Department responded to the submarine threat by serving notice that the 
                        United States
                     Government would hold 
                        Germany
                     to "strict accountability" for any American lives and property destroyed in violation
                    of acknowledged principles of international law. At the same time a note was dispatched to Great
                    Britain protesting her ruse of flying the American flag over English vessels while in the danger
                    zone. The 
                        South Bend
                     editor carried this double news under the heading, "Pointed Notes Sent by
                    Nation to Two Powers" with the subheading "Both Great Britain and 
                        Germany
                     Well Informed of 
                        United States
                     Position."17 The following day the notes were given full
                    approval as being "of the right sort." The remonstrance to Britain was described as being
                    rightly less vigorous than that to 
                        Germany
                     because rules governing the use of neutral flags were vague and undefined, whereas, for
                    proposed German action there was absolutely no legal basis.18 No mention was
                    made of the "strict accountability" clause!
            A week later, German and English replies were received almost simultaneously. The editor bracketed
                    them in a discussion pointing out that neither conceded anything to the American position and that
                    American rejoinders were probably being prepared. "We are advocates of neither belligerent 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., February 5, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 5, 1915, p. 1; Seymour, Indiana, Republican, February 6, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, Daily Telephone, February 5, 1915, p. 4. At this
                            particular period the citizens of 
                                Bloomington
                             had very little time for the discussion of anything except the proposal in the
                            state legislature that Indiana University be moved to 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                  
                     17
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, February 11, 1915, p. 1. The British
                            strategy of raising the American flag over her ships while in the submarine zone received
                            more notice and censure in Indiana than did any of her previous practices. Its nature was
                            such as to catch attention, and it carried a connotation of obliquity. As a matter of fact,
                            action in this case was probably legal.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., February 12, 1915, p. 8. Only a small percentage of the editors
                            made mention of the "strict accountability" phrase.
               
                     ligerent before the other…. We have only ourselves to
                    look out for. It is a trying situation; one that will not be bettered by captuous criticism of
                            
                  England, Germany
                or of President Wilson."19
                    
                        Washington
                    's birthday provided the editor with an occasion to express his views as to the
                    proper goals of American foreign policy, and he found them to be two: (1) remain free of Old World
                    quarrels and (2) uphold "the rights of neutrality."20 During the
                    remainder of the month he expressed opposition to an arms embargo, worried over those who had
                    divided national loyalties, and criticized Theodore Roosevelt for his growing bellicosity.
            March 1 was greeted with a new British Order in Council which further tightened the Allied blockade
                    by providing for the interception of all ships sailing to or from 
                        Germany
                     and by placing food on the contraband list. "We should speak to the Allies in terms as
                    certain and as plain as those in which we spoke to 
                        Germany
                    ," was the editor's reaction. However, he hastened to add,
                    "what recourse we shall have if our protests are ignored rests in the future. For the
                    present at least it were better it remain there."21 But on the very day
                    that the British order went into effect news came of another event which overshadowed and nullified
                    it as far as public opinion was concerned. For on March 11 the German cruiser, "Prinz Eitel
                    Friedrich," put in at 
                        Newport
                     News and announced the sinking of the American merchantman, "William P.
                    Frye," after rescue of its crew. This act was a clear violation of American sea rights (as 
                        Germany
                     tardily admitted) and meant the loss of one of the best units in the small American
                    merchant fleet. The editor commented, 
                        
                     
                                Germany
                             now has a chance to prove her assertion of February that "heretofore" she has
                            observed the Declaration of 
                                London
                             by assuming full responsibility for the destruction of the "William P. Frye"
                            and making full and immediate reparation. [This sinking] …has crowded the
                            "Wilhelmina" and "Dacia" cases out of the limelight.22
                  
                    
            
            A few days later a new aspect made its appearance when the editor observed that the "
                        United States
                    ' protests seem to have more effect upon Carranza than on Great Britain or 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., February 19, 1915, p. 10.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., February 22, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., March 2, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., March 11, 1915, p. 8 and March 12, 1915, p. 8.
               
                    
                    
                        Germany
                    . Maybe it is because they were backed up by a cruiser."23
                    What was in his mind was shown more clearly by his arguments in the next issue that the uncertain
                    times had made an increase in the army and navy imperative.24 Discouraged by the
                    slow progress of American diplomacy, he was advocating that the 
                        United States
                     increase its bargaining power by carrying a bigger stick. By March 26, however, he
                    believed he had found a more profitable and less dangerous solution to current diplomatic problems.
                    The country should sit tight until the end of the war when damages could be collected and the fruits
                    of American factories and farms sold to a depleted Europe: 
                        So, while we rage and fume inwardly at the difficulties which beset us and at the annoyances
                            which Europe thrusts upon us, it will be some comfort to remember that there will be a day
                            of reckoning after awhile when we shall not only demand and receive damages for what we have
                            suffered but when all of Europe will also have to pay us for what we have and what it has
                            not, but which it will most desperately need. Things shall have to grow much worse before we
                            can afford to permit ourselves to be drawn into the vortext swirling over Europe.25
                  
                     This program of long-range patience must not have been entirely self-satisfying, because a
                    short time later he returned to the "Frye" incident with biting criticism of 
                        Germany
                    's failure to "acknowledge its wrong and voluntarily make recompense."
                    This time he had no set solution: 
                        Just what a great neutral nation which possesses the power to strike in its own defense if
                            necessary, should do to maintain its rights, its friendships and its peace as well is no
                            small problem. While the government is seeking to solve it, the situation emphasizes anew
                            the demand patriotism makes upon us all to stand unitedly and unequivocably behind the
                                President.26
                  
                    
            
            The month of April saw few new developments in the commercial war that the combatants were waging
                    against one another and the rest of the world. The editor used the lull for further defense of the
                    munitions sales and for criticism of hyphenates, German air raids, and the use of poison gas. In
                    early May he returned to the submarine issue as a result of German attacks on the American tankers,
                    "Cushing" 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., March 16, 1915, p. 8.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., March 17, 1915, p. 8.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., March 26, 1915, p. 10.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., March 31, 1915, p. 8.
               
                     and "Gulflight," remarking that, "Torpedoing
                    neutral ships at sea is always a grave matter for some unfortunate sailors."27 On May 6 he printed without comment the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Herald's virulent condemnation of the sinking of the "Gulflight" and
                    carried a cartoon on the front page picturing submarines lying in wait for American ships.28
            
            Having come to the eve of the "Lusitania" sinking, one is inclined to look back over the road with
                    some puzzlement and to inquire as to just what was the attitude of this editor and the public during
                    those months. Inattention and indecision seemed almost to outweigh the more positive reactions, and
                    practically all of the newspapers displayed more interest in Mexico, the ship-purchase bill, and
                    politics than in the great war. There were week-long stretches when the smaller dailies made only
                    the most cursory references to the war. Yet, one thing was clear enough. As long as no irremediable
                    injury was done, i.e., loss of life, or national animosities aroused, there would
                    be but little excitement over a "matter such as the stoppage of ships." This applied to
                    German action as well as English, for so clear cut a violation of law and comity as the destruction
                    of the "William P. Frye" raised no war sentiments. The public did not even object very strenuously
                    to 
                        Germany
                    's submarine order-as long as it was not enforced in a manner detrimental to
                    the life of 
                        United States
                     citizens.
            This possibility became a reality when on May 7, 1915, the "Lusitania," pride of the English
                    Cunard Line, was torpedoed and sunk without warning near the Irish coast with nearly 2,000
                    passengers and crew aboard. On that initial day, however, the Indiana public found but little
                    positive information in their newspapers. They read (usually for the first time) of the warning that
                    had appeared in the 
                        New York
                     press on May 1, of the American celebrities who were aboard, of the size and beauty of
                    the ship, and of the time and place of the sinking. They read, also, that because of the large
                    air-tight bulkheads, adequate lifeboats, and the nearness of other vessels and of the Irish shore,
                    virtually 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., May 3, 1915, p. 6. The editor took no notice of the warning to
                            prospective travelers published by the German Embassy in the 
                                New York
                             papers on May 1.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., May 6, 1915, pp. 1 and 10.
               
                     all of the passengers were believed to be safe.29 But by the next morning a tale of confusion, panic, and death began to unroll. Three names
                    in the casualty list caught the public eye: author Elbert Hubbard, wealthy Alfred G. Vanderbilt who
                    perished after surrendering his life preserver to a woman, and 
                        Broadway
                     producer Charles Frohman whose half-smiling acquiescence in death as the "most
                    beautiful adventure of life" constituted the perfect exit.30 Piteous stories
                    were recounted. Two children "were brought ashore clasped in each other's arms." A
                    mother, half crazed by her experiences, who was pulled from the sea with a dead infant in her arms,
                    "looked for a moment at the child's face and then said, 'Let me bury my baby' at
                    the same time placing the child in the water."31 In Indiana, rumors
                    sprang up, grew, and multiplied like endlessly dividing cells. Sunday night and throughout Monday
                    morning the report swept parts of the state that President Wilson had been assissinated by a German
                        agent.32 Clearly this sinking was not to be as casually regarded as had
                    those that had preceded it. The fact that 124 of the dead who lay along the Irish shore or remained
                    undiscovered in the nearby Atlantic were citizens of the 
                        United States
                     had made the tragedy an American one, bringing the "European War" home to the American
                    public. The subjects of politics and Mexico were shoved aside, and the weekly newspapers took up a
                    discussion of the war for the first time since the excitement of its beginning.
            Horror and anger mounted hand in hand. The action was "piratical," "abominable,"
                    "sickening," "dastardly," "hellish," and a "massacre" exclaimed the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune in a single editorial.33 The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Courier was of the opinion that, "It is not war; it is the deliberate
                    coldblooded murder of women and children…. It is as wanton, brutal, insensate as any of
                    the acts that have made Attila 
                  
                     29 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, News, May 7, 1915, p. 1; Anderson, Indiana, Bulletin, May 7, 1915, p. 1; Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune, May 7,
                            1915, p. 1.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Elkhart
                            , Indiana, Truth, May 8, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Star, May 9, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 11, 1915, p. 8. Frohman was quoted by survivors as saying,
                            "Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure of life."
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 8, 1915, p. 1; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, May 10, 1915, p. 1; Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune, May 10, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, May 10, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     33
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, May 8, 1915, p. 10.
               
                     and Alva cursed through the ages."34 A 
                        Hammond
                     editor shouted that the "Lusitania" victims 
                        were simply assassinated. Today 
                                Germany
                             defends the act by saying to America: You were warned. If one man should write
                            a letter to another saying: "I'm coming to your house to shoot you tonight" and did
                            so WOULD THAT BE ANY LESS MURDER BECAUSE OF THE LETTER? The sinking of the
                            Lusitania horrifies the world. The shades of Attila and Nero are disconsolate these days.
                            None such opportunities were theirs.35
                  
                     "Many stories of the atrocities of war may have been false, but they are easier to believe
                        now,"36 pronounced the 
                        Frankfort
                    
                    Crescent-News, and the 
                        Steuben
                    
                    Republican judged it "a sorry day for the German people when the Lusitania was
                    sent to her doom, for not a nation on earth before that time thought it possible that any civilized
                    people could commit such an act."37 The 
                        Vevay
                    
                    Reveille drew an analogy between the ocean highway and Main Street in 
                        Vevay
                    . "Everybody has a right to travel it so long as he observes the law and the rights of
                    others. Because two families living on opposite sides of the street are at enmity does not warrant
                    closing the street." Furthermore, to give warning "only makes the case the more aggravated.
                    Premeditation in any killing makes it murder in the first degree."38
                    Down in 
                        Louisville
                    , Henry Watterson marshaled his powers of invective and English phraseology for a
                    devastating verbal assault on "Wilhelm the Murderer" in the columns of his Courier-Journal that was probably unequaled in the 
                        United States
                    .39
            
            An analysis of these and other expressions reveals that the platform from which the attacks were
                    delivered on the torpedoing of the "Lusitania" consisted of three planks: (1) the law of humanity,
                    (2) the law of nations, and (3) the Treaty of 1828 between the 
                        United States
                     and Prussia. The first was a moral protest and was expressed in the language of the
                    King James' Version, Pilgrim's Progress, McGuffey Readers, and the camp meeting. Since this
                    was 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 8, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, May 8, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana, Crescent-News, May 13, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Angola
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Steuben
                                 Republican, May 12, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, Reveille, May 13, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     39
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 9, 1915, p. 4
                            and May 11, 1915, p. 6.
               
                     the plane on which the invasion of 
                        Belgium
                     had been condemned, the Belgian and "Lusitania" catastrophes were mentally associated
                    and regarded as common manifestations of German ruthlessness. It was significant from the standpoint
                    of public opinion that a considerable number of German moves appeared to violate moral as well as
                    more prosaic laws, and thereby entered into the American consciousness on that level. It was of even
                    greater significance that 
                        Germany
                     and her associates maintained a monopoly of such actions, for although the people of
                    Indiana took legal, commercial, and nationalistic exception to deeds by both groups of combatants,
                    actions of the Central Powers alone elicited moral disapprobation. And woe unto that power which
                    seeks to interpret American foreign policy without taking into consideration the evangelistic spirit
                    that surges in the blood of millions of its citizens!40
            
            The second objection to the "Lusitania" sinking was that it violated the law of nations. Geography
                    and a hundred years of comparative foreign peace had caused American foreign policy to become
                    identified with the accepted norms of international law to an extent that was not true of any other
                    country. Under this law 
                        Germany
                     possessed the legal right to seize the contraband which the "Lusitania" carried, and in
                    particular circumstances she could destroy the vessel itself, so long as she fulfilled the legal
                    obligation of providing for the relative safety of the crew and passengers. But in this case
                    American citizens had gone to their death because the latter had been ignored, and upon that ground
                    the editors rightly took their stand.41 Although in practice the Middle West was
                    not inclined to become unduly stirred over violations of legal rights that affected property alone,
                    the destruction of American life on the "Lusitania" constituted an irreparable damage that lighted
                    the fires of nationalistic anger. Unless the citizens were willing to endure similar 
                  
                     40 For further comments on this score see Ralph H. Gabriel, The Course of American Democratic Thought (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 339-56; David L. Cohn, The Good Old Days (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 75; Merle Curti, The Growth of American Thought (
                                New York
                            , 1943), passim.
                  
                  
                     41
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, May 8, 1915, p. 4; 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Argus, May 8, 1915, p. 4; Attica, Indiana, 
                        
                           Fountain-Warren
                         Democrat, May 13, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Kokomo
                            , Indiana, Tribune, May 11, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, Reveille, May 13, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 8, 1915, p. 6. For a careful study of this whole topic see
                            Thomas A. Bailey, "The Sinking of the Lusitania," American
                                Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XLI (1935), 54-73.
               
                     tragic losses in the future, this matter could not be left for
                    settlement until the end of the war, as could the commercial disputes. An understanding must be
                    reached with 
                        Germany
                     without too much delay. Seeking to place their case on as high a plane as possible,
                    many argued that in this instance America's cause had become the cause of all neutrals,
                    present and future. It was asserted that the only major nation at peace in a world at war held a
                    trust for all civilization to protect and nurture the gains thus far achieved in the long struggle
                    to make warfare as humane as possible. In the words of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News: 
                        This is a wholly new method of warfare, and one that the neutral nations of the world can not
                            permit to be established. If we are to have wars in the future, we must do everything in our
                            power to see that they are free from such horrors as that of Friday.42
                  
                     This was placing the American position on an interrational as well as a patriotic
                    foundation and providing a chart of a mission for peaceful America in a warring world.
            The third objection to the torpedoing of the "Lusitania" was based on the still-effective treaty
                    which the 
                        United States
                     had signed with Prussia in 1828. Yet, although virtually everything that the 
                        United States
                     was to demand of 
                        Germany
                     was unequivocably granted by this compact, only a limited number of writers displayed a
                    knowledge of it, and these were rather obviously engaging in legalistic rationalization.43
            
            As a realization of the grim seriousness of the situation spread over Hoosierdom, a united cry arose
                    for all to stand behind the President in the portentous decision that he must make. In the meantime,
                    the editors advised, it behooved loyal Americans to curb their tongues and refrain from rocking the
                    boat. When analysis is pushed beyond this gratifying display of patriotic unity, another facet of
                    current public opinion is uncovered. Notwithstanding the general agreement that the sinking was a
                    most dastardly deed, the evidence is clear that virtually none wanted war. For when the editors had
                    written the requisite number of angry adjectives and turned to a discussion as to what should be
                        
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 10, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, May 17, 1915, p. 4, cited the treaty and remarked,
                            "But this, also, is probably a scrap of paper."
               
                     done by their government with regard to the outrage, they
                    hesitated, floundered weakly, and ended by advising that it was the duty of all to support the
                    President. Soon they were saying hopefully that they were confident that the President stood for
                    peace. Quite clearly two things were desired: a surrender by 
                        Germany
                     and a continued state of peace. Those in authority were told to uphold "our rights" and
                    at the same time avoid the burdens and sacrifices of war, though just how this was to be
                    accomplished if 
                        Germany
                     proved intractable was not explained. A statement of the 
                        Rushville
                    
                    Republican was typical: 
                        While it is quite true no one wants to see his country made the doormat for European powers,
                            there are few who would like to see the 
                                United States
                             rush ruthlessly into war when they consider the suffering that would result,
                            not considering the financial loss that would be entailed.44
                  
                     The thought that an exchange of peace for war would rob the country of the economic fruits
                    of neutrality seems to have occurred to many of the writers, for it was the concensus of opinion
                    that war would have a harmful, not beneficial, effect on the Indiana business world.45
            
            One of the most impressive evidences of this will for peace was the almost unanimous approval given
                    to Wilson's 
                        Philadelphia
                     address of May 10.46 The "too proud to fight" phrase which was to
                    loom so large in later memories of the speech was taken in stride, inciting very little comment at
                    the time in Indiana. The contemporaries were more interested in the President's implied
                    promise to proceed cautiously and patiently with respect to the "Lusitania" embroglio and his admonition to his audience of newly naturalized citizens not to consider
                    themselves as belonging to groups. The latter was enthusiastically applauded as a criticism of
                    hyphenates. Theodore Roosevelt's strident demands for action brought from both Republican
                    and Democrat 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana, Republican, May 13, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, Weekly Republican, May 13, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, May 12, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Commercial, May 11, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 12, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 11, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 13, 1915, p. 2; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, May 11, 1915, p. 4; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, May 12, 1915, p. 8; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 12, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Journal, May 11, 1915, p. 6; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Times, May 11, 1915, p. 6.
               
                     papers expressions of satisfaction that a less belligerent man
                    was in the White House.47 Even such an ardent Bull Moose advocate as the editor of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier quipped, "We have a great deal of respect and admiration for
                    Theodore Roosevelt, but wouldn't it be just as well to allow President Wilson to deal with the
                    present crisis in his own way."48 Winning more approbation than his
                    experience of the past few years had accustomed him, ex-President William H. Taft, on the other
                    hand, confined his remarks to publicly advising all Americans to put their trust in their
                    government.
            Peace sentiment grew stronger the nearer it approached the grass roots. The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal may have wanted war, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News probably would have met it halfway, but the six- and eight-page dailies and
                    the weekly journals were practically of one mind in their hope for peace.49 The
                    baffling juxtaposition of the evangelistic and an extraordinary, pragmatic realism in the character
                    of those who inhabit the farms and towns of the Middle West was clearly evident here. They denounced
                    the destruction of the "Lusitania" with a fine moral indignation but hastened to point out that the
                    burdens of war were too heavy to be casually shouldered in defense of technicalities.
            In fact, the evidence would seem to indicate that if such should prove necessary to insure a peaceful
                    solution, many of the Indiana people were willing to concede something to 
                        Germany
                    . They grew very cautious when it came to translating this inclination into specific
                    conciliatory proposals, 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana, Republican, May 11, 1915, p. 4; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, May 13, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Oxford
                            , Indiana, Gazette, May 21, 1915, p. 5; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Times, May 10, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 12, 1915, p. 6. The 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, leading mid-western Progressive paper in 1912, condemned
                            Roosevelt's utterances as being "inconsiderate and inflammatory." See
                            issue of May 13, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana, Crescent-News, May 10, 1915, p. 4; Seymour,
                            Indiana, Republican, May 8, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 11, 1915, p. 2; Hobart, Indiana, News, May 13, 1915, p. 4; Paoli, Indiana, Republican,
                            May 19, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Kentland
                            , In- diana, 
                        
                                    Newton County
                                 Enterprise, May 13, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Monticello
                            , Indiana, Herald, May 13, 1915, p. 4; Attica, Indiana, 
                        
                           Fountain-Warren
                         Democrat, May 13, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, Democrat, May 13, 1914, p. 4; Waterloo, Indiana,
                            Press, May 13, 1915, p. 8; 
                                Rensselaer
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Jasper County
                                 Democrat, May 12, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Angola
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Steuben
                                 Republican, May 12, 1915, p. 4. See also 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Farmer's Guide, May 22, 1915, p.
                        874.
               
                     yet enough was written to indicate that at this time a majority
                    might have approved an order for American citizens to refrain from traveling on belligerent ships
                    carrying munitions. Some would have supported also the more drastic step of notifying 
                        United States
                     citizens that they would lose the protection of their government if they entered the
                    war zone on other than American vessels. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star noted at some length that the people desired a "way out" and speculated,
                        
                        If the 
                                United States
                             can find a way to keep Americans off ammunitionloaded vessels or to secure from
                            Great Britain the exclusion of explosives from her passenger ships, a satisfactory
                            arrangement all around might be reached.50
                  
                     The 
                  
                            Lake County
                         News expressed the belief that American travelers should stay at home instead
                    of 
                        risking their own lives and also chancing involving this whole nation in international
                            trouble…. This nation is in no shape to go to war. Besides what could we hope to
                            gain? There can be found a way of escape without sacrifice of honor, and
                            yet… [remain] at the head of the great peace loving nations. By continued peace
                            we will also be fifty or one hundred years ahead of all nations involved in the war, and
                            will leave no war burden for generations to lift.51
                  
                     The editor's interrogation was not often so bluntly put, but it undoubtdly
                    occurred to many. Although the historical nationalism of the Hoosiers would have caused them to
                    accept war if it had come, the unity and vigor essential to successful martial effort might have
                    been difficult of attainment at this time.
            It would have been necessary, however, that any deviations from international law appear as voluntary
                    concessions and not as surrenders. Opinion was sufficiently aroused that there could be no open
                    submission to German demands. Furthermore, the locals would have adamantly opposed any suggestion
                    that the American merchant marine be withdrawn from the transatlantic trade, and they were 
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 17, 1915, p. 6. See also 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 12, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, JournalTribune, May 15, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, May 13, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, May 20, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Examiner, May 14, 1915, p. 18; Paoli, Indiana, Republican, May 19, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Portland
                            , Indiana, Commercial-Review, July 15, 1915, p. 4; New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Ledger, May 10, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 News, May 13, 1915, p. 2.
               
                     more determined than before that munition sales should not be
                        embargoed.52
            
            The sources of much of the conciliatory spirit noted above are obvious, but one of the most vocal
                    contingents was made up of those who might have been expected to be more warlike-the imperialistic,
                    jingoistic, "red-blooded Americanism" school. Though the Hearst papers had for years
                    carried daily chauvanistic essays on national honor, viewed with pride American intervention in
                    Panama, Santo Domingo, 
                        Honduras
                    , and Nicaragua, advocated strong measures against 
                        Japan
                    , and ceaselessly clamored for American intervention in Mexico, they were models of
                    tranquility throughout the "Lusitania" debate.53 The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune had applauded the landing of marines in backward parts of the world,
                    followed Roosevelt in 1912 because of his nationalistic program, and denounced "peace-at-any-price
                    extremists" who "well supplied with money and by working through the schools and churches pervert
                    the intelligent humanitarianism of the American people" and thus "prevent the wholesome and
                    honorable egoism of the American republic from asserting itself."54 Yet
                    in this crisis the Tribune counseled patience and proposed that concessions be
                        made.55 The LaGrange Standard echoed these aggressive
                    sentiments, openly and repeatedly advocated the outright annexation of northern Mexico, and held the
                    opinion that, 
                        If the 
                                United States
                             Government is so idiotic as to give up the Philippines it is not worth
                            preparing to die for. Such a government has no appeal to the spirit that enables men to
                            suffer, starve, and bleed for their country.56
                  
                     But when the editor came to discuss the American quarrel with 
                        Germany
                    , he found 
                        Germany
                     to be right and the 
                        United States
                     to be presumptious.57 The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier wanted the 
                        United States
                     to "annex or extend a protectorate 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 18, 1915, p. 8; 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 News, May 13, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Monticello
                            , Indiana, Herald, June 24, 1915, p. 4; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, June 28, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, July 9, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            American, May 13, 1915, p. 14; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Examiner, May 14, 1915, p. 18.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, July 25, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., May 11, 1915, p. 6; May 12, 1915, p. 6; May 13, 1915, p. 6; and May
                            31, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     56 La Grange, Indiana, Standard, April 20, 1916, p.
                            2. See also issues for August 19, 1915, p. 2 and August 26, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., May 13, 1915, p. 2 and May 20, 1915, p. 2.
               
                     over Mexico and the Central American States" and thought the
                    proposal to pay indemnity to 
                        Colombia
                     because of the Panama fiasco" an insult to national honor because the "
                        United States
                     did nothing more in Panama than every strong nation (ourselves included) has done many
                    times in its history."58 Yet this virile nationalism remained unmoved
                    by the German sea challenge.59 Albert J. Beveridge, major prophet of American
                    imperialism and the "White Man's Burden," proponent of Mexican intervention and
                    the possible administering of "her affairs for the next two or three generations," and
                    opponent of the Panama Canal Tolls "surrender," was in favor of conceding most of the
                    points at issue in the submarine quarrel.60 In part, the spirit of appeasement
                    manifested by those who were normally the least compromising in foreign disputes were expressions of
                    Anglophobia, Yellow Peril hysteria, and pro-German sympathy. But these did not constitute the whole
                    of the story. The explanation lay partly in a state of mind which was more sensitive to the call of
                    the White Man's Burden in Timbuktu-or Nicaragua or Mexico!-than in challenging the German
                    military machine in a war which offered no material gain for the 
                        United States
                    -a state of mind which looked with respect on virile countries such as 
                        Germany
                     that did not hesitate to follow their "destinies." There were times when
                    members of this group seemed to get vicarious satisfaction from 
                        Germany
                    's bold and challenging strokeseven when directed at the 
                        United States
                    . If they could have worked their will, the country would have followed a "realistic"
                    policy of national opportunism by making war on Mexico, seizing such lands in the Caribbean as were
                    deemed essential to national interests, and washing its hands of the conflict in Europe, except,
                    possibly for such bargaining as could be safely and profitably consummated. An increase in national
                    consciousness and chauvinism in the general public would facilitate entry into the war in 1917,
                        
                  
                     58
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, June 25, 1914, p. 2 and June 30, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     59 Throughout the "Lusitania" crisis the 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier counseled peace with 
                                Germany
                             and war on Mexico. See issues for May 11, 1915, p. 2; May 12, 1915, p. 2; and
                            June 3, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     60 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 448, 484. Imperialism and liberalism, usually considered to be
                            antagonistic, bedded together in Beveridge's philosophy.
               
                     but these prewar imperialists were to remain indifferent toward
                    American action against 
                        Germany
                     to the last.
            In one respect the desire of much of the public for peace on the ground that the sacrifices of war
                    were too great to contemplate was offset by the rather commonly held contradictory belief that if
                    America became a belligerent she would play only a passive role, similar to that currently performed
                    by 
                        Japan
                    . It was frequently argued that because the Kaiser's navy was bottled up by the
                    English and the two countries lacked common geographical boundaries there would be no way for the 
                        United States
                     to operate against 
                        Germany
                    , or vice versa. As the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Star stated: 
                        
                     
                                Germany
                             could not possibly get at us to inflict a blow of any kind at present. Nor
                            could we assail 
                                Germany
                             except as we might join forces with the Allies. As affairs now stand, talk of a
                            war between this country and 
                                Germany
                             is in the same class as would be plans for a naval demonstration against 
                                Switzerland
                            .61
                  
                     "If we wanted to fight 
                        Germany
                     we could not reach any German fleet or army," said the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal.
               62 A few felt that 
                        Germany
                     would be so little harmed by American participation that she might be planning to force
                    the United-States into the war so as to remove all checks to her submarine policy and in order to
                    place the 
                        United States
                     in a position where her own armament needs would prevent the shipment of munitions to 
                        Germany
                    's European enemies.63
            
            One of the more meaningful straws in the wind of public opinion was the reaction of those of German
                    descent to the "Lusitania" crisis. The initial news of the sinking had evoked spontaneous and open
                    rejoicing from them over the "victory," but as relations between 
                        Germany
                     and the 
                        United States
                     grew taut, they moderated their remarks and their leaders pledged that should unwanted
                    war come, the German element would be found fighting for the country of their adoption. Though they
                    remained positive that 
                        Germany
                     was fully justified in her action, and though words grew heated between them and the
                    rest of the population, 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Star, February 17, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     62
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 12, 1915, p.
                            4.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Commercial, May 19, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Journal (weekly ed.), May 21, 1915, p. 2.
               
                     the discerning observer could have seen that one of the major
                    lessons of the "Lusitania" impasse was that in a time of supreme test the German-Americans would
                    fall in line.64 The German-American of 1915 may not have been a spiritual
                    democrat but he made almost a fetish of duty, honor, and order, and he admired Hohenzollern 
                        Germany
                     because he believed those were its traits. In case of war between the 
                        United States
                     and the Fatherland, these same attributes would lead him to search his soul and
                    dutifully support the law under which he lived.
            Close on the heels of the fateful sinking came two other developments which tended to discredit 
                        Germany
                     in local opinion. A former resident of America, after literally pushing his way into
                    the office of 
                        United States
                     Ambassador James Gerard in Berlin, had poured forth an ill-tempered verbal assault on
                    William Jennings Bryan until forcibly ejected.65 Under the circumstances the
                    event received much more attention than it warranted. At about the same time appeared a report on
                    German atrocities in 
                        Belgium
                     by an English investigating commission headed by Viscount James Bryce, former British
                    ambassador to the 
                        United States
                     and possessor of an almost unrivaled reputation for objectivity based on writings as
                    diverse as the Holy Roman Empire and the American Commonwealth.
                    Tearful and barbarous happenings were related:66
                    
                        At Vise: "The village was completely destroyed."
                        At Sempst: A girl of seventeen "alleged that she herself and other girls had been dragged
                            into a field, stripped naked and violated and that some of them had been killed with a
                            bayonet."
                        At Heure le Romain: "the burgomaster's brother and the priest were
                            bayoneted."
                        At Soumagfie: "The eye witness… saw… twenty bodies, one that
                            of a girl of thirteen."
                        At Eppeghem: "… a dead body of a child of two was seen pinned to the
                            ground with a German lance."
                     Although the account pointed out that the investigators had not personally witnessed these
                    horrors and stated that some 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 10, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Warsaw
                            , Indiana, Northern Indianian, May 27, 1915, p. 4; Evansyille,
                            Indiana, Demokrat, May 17, 1915, p. 1; Wittke, German-Americans and the World War, 74.
                  
                     65
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, May 13, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 14, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 12, 1915, p. 1.
               
                     of them were probably exaggerated, it expressed the belief of
                    the commission that "murder, rape, arson, and pillage began from the moment when the German army
                    crossed the frontier." What was more damning was the conclusion that these things had been
                    done as part of a conscious policy of "general terrorization" designed to hasten the submission of
                    the Belgian people. The report as a whole was more moderate than the selected quotations would
                    indicate, but it presented a hideous picture and served to review the "atrocities" of 
                        Belgium
                     at a time when the "Lusitania" crisis had made the public more credulous of reported
                    German brutality. It would be easy, however, to exaggerate the importance of this strange document,
                    for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News alone in the state carried a detailed summary.67 Its
                    influence was greatest among those who recognized and admired Chairman Bryce (the "Atlantic Monthly
                    fellers," as Artemus Ward once named this group), and they were already staunchly
                        pro-Ally.68
            
            Meanwhile, the first note of protest regarding the "Lusitania" had gone forth to 
                        Germany
                    , declaring the intention of the American government "of maintaining the rights of the 
                        United States
                     and its citizens" and asking for disavowal, reparations, and security for the future.
                    Once more the cry went up for all to close ranks. The editors enthusiastically underwrote the
                    position taken by the government,69 and the Church Federation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     documented the 
                  
                     67 Papers which ran shorter summaries included: 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, May 12, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 13, 1915, p. 8; 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, News-Times, May 13, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 13, 1915, p. 2. Not one of these made editorial comment on the
                            report. The Bryce report was to play two dissimilar roles. In 1915 it helped to convince the
                            American people of the rightness of the Allied cause. Its easily demonstrated
                            untrustworthiness in the post-war years was to give impetus to the "disillusionist"
                            reaction.
                  
                     68 One evidence of this selective influence was the much greater
                            emphasis placed on the Bryce report by the magazines as compared to the newspapers. See, for
                            example, the Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1865-), C (1915), 554-55; Outlook (
                                New York
                            , 1893-1932), CX (1915), 150-51; Independent (
                                New York
                             and 
                                Boston
                            , 1848-1928), LXXXII (1915), 309- 10; and Nineteenth Century (
                                London
                            , 1877-), LXXVII (1915), 1234-48.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Kokomo
                            , Indiana, Tribune, May 14, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Huntingburg
                            , Indiana, Independent, May 15, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Herald, May 14, 1915, p. 6; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     ,
                                Times, May 14, 1915, p. 6; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, May 14, 1915, p. 4; Liberty, Indiana, Herald, May 20, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Oxford
                            , Indiana, Gazette, May 21, 1915, p. 5; 
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, Republican, May 20, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, American, May 20, 1915, p. 4.
               
                     tenor of the times by a conspicuous appeal for all to have
                    "confidence in the President" who was a "God-fearing man."70 An even
                    better reflection of the various facets of the public mood at this stage could be found in the
                    events of May 18, which earlier had been designated National Peace Day. The sincere prayers that the 
                        United States
                     be spared the horrors of war which rose heavenward from the many commemorative services
                    held by schools, churches, and women's clubs were expressions of a basic peace sentiment.
                    However, a pageant at Gardner School, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , which pictured all nations as submitting to peace except 
                        Germany
                     (represented by a boy in full armor) mirrored the picture of the German Empire which
                    existed in the mind of the average citizen and demonstrated the possibility of a war in the interest
                    of peace.71 The excessive emphasis which the newspapers of that same day gave to
                    the President's grand review of the American war fleet denoted the heightened nationalism
                    and preparedness sentiment which constituted still another aspect of the seitgeist.
               72
            
            While the public waited with varying degrees of impatience for 
                        Germany
                    's reply, a torpedo smashed without warning into the westward-bound American
                    ship, "Nebraskan." Fortunately, there were no fatalities, but many wondered if
                    this blow constituted the awaited answer. On May 29, 1915, however, such speculation was brought to
                    an end by receipt of the official German reply. Because it ignored most of the points of American
                    protest, it was regarded as "evasive"; and because it argued German justification on the ground that
                    the "Lusitania" was an armed British auxilliary warship, it was characterized as an
                    "insult." No proof of this was given and American port officials, the State Department, and
                    survivors swore to the contrary. "Worth 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1915, p. 19. The 
                                Chicago
                            , 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Staats-Zeitung, as quoted in 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Journal, May 13, 1915, p. 3, thought that "no fair-minded person can take
                            the President's note seriously. We fear it will be looked upon as a poor diplomatic
                            joke in 
                                Germany
                            ." The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, May 17, 1915, p. 4, said Americans should use
                            neutral ships and described "Bryan's note" as having been dipped in poison. "We are
                            told that now is the time for all to stand by the President. On the other hand, the time is
                            here for all patriotic Americans to unanimously and energetically oppose his false and
                            dishonorable policy."
                  
                     71
                            
                                Valparaiso
                            , Indiana, Daily Vidette, May 19, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     72 Anderson, Indiana, Bulletin, May 18, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, World, May 18, 1915, p. 1.
               
                     less than the paper upon which it is written"73-"reflects on the integrity of the 
                        United States
                    "74-"quibbling"75- "quite
                        unsatisfactory"76-"increases and intensifies the situation"77 were characteristic remarks. A popular cartoon showed 
                        Germany
                     disdainfully snapping her fingers at Wilson and humanity.78 Only
                    the pro-Germans found the reply to be satisfactory. "German Answer Demands Truth About the
                    Lusitania," was the page-wide headline of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Spottvogel;79 and the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Staats-Zeitung asserted that "the German reply concedes more than possibly
                    could have been expected and may be taken as a striking argument for the righteousness of the German
                    position in this case."80
            
            There followed a week filled with demands that the next American communication speak more pointedly
                    and rumors to the effect that just such an epistle was being prepared in 
                        Washington
                    . Therefore, when on June 9 the public learned that the rejoinder of the 
                        United States
                     was in the German foreign office and that Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan had
                    resigned rather than affix his name to it, it was generally assumed that the note was an ultimatum
                    and war a distinct possibility, if not a probability.81 Only after twenty-four
                    uncertain hours had passed was it known that no ultimatum had been sent. When released, this second
                    "Lusitania" note was applauded for its vigorous defense of the American position and was welcomed
                    with relief because it left the way open for further exchange of views.82 Though
                    they did not yet wish to fight 
                        Germany
                    , 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, Democrat, June 3, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 1, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Decatur
                            , Indiana, Democrat, June 1, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily News, May 31, 1915, p. 6.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Warsaw
                            , Indiana, Northern Indianian, June 3, 1915, p. 8.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 1, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Spottvogel, May 30, 1915, p. 1. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, May 31, 1915, p. 4. Contrary to later popular
                            belief, no dispute arose as to whether the "Lusitania" carried munitions; that fact was
                            generally accepted by all. However, the argument as to whether the "Lusitania" carried
                            cannons was bitter and prolonged.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Chicago
                            , 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Staats-Zeitung as quoted in the 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, June 1, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 9, 1915, p. 8; 
                                Michigan City
                            , Indiana, Dispatch, June 9, 1915, p. 1; Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune, June 9, 1915, p. 1 and June 10, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     82
                            
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana, Republican, June 11, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, June 11, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 11, 1915, p. 6; Sullivan, Indiana,
                                Union, June 16, 1915, p. 4.
               
                     Hoosiers were growing impatient over what they regarded as
                    German procrastination, and their mood was less compromising than it had been two weeks earlier.
            It is doubtful if any American, not guilty of open treason, was ever subjected to verbal abuse equal
                    to that which beat upon the head of Bryan as a result of his resignation from the cabinet.
                    Circumstances, past and present, conspired to make him almost championless. Sensitive of the fact
                    that only Republican disunity in 1912 had enabled them to elect their second President since the
                    Civil War, the Democrats felt that Bryan had let them down by inviting disharmony in their own
                    ranks. To the Republicans, the three-times candidate for President had become the symbol of their
                    partisan enemy, and their journals which had lashed him for years with charges of Populism, cheap
                    money, free trade, and lack of "red-blooded" patriotism hastened to cite this new deed as crowning
                    proof of his rascality. Patriots compared him to Judas Iscariot, Benedict Arnold, and Clement L.
                    Vallandigham. Conservatives reviewed his economic heresies. Practically all expressed the fear that
                    the resignation would be interpreted in 
                        Germany
                     as an evidence of internal disagreement, thereby encouraging her to be less
                    conciliatory.
            According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, this "shallow ranter," "incapable of intellectual
                    integrity," and "willing to sacrifice everything on the altar of his own
                    ambition," "prefers to give aid and comfort to a power with which we are on very critical
                    terms, a power that is likely to be gravely misled by his show of division and
                        disunion."83 The 
                        Monticello
                    
                    Herald described him as "a pilot who deserted the ship just before the storm
                        began";84 the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    American remarked that the "country again realizes that it escaped a great
                    calamity three times within the past twenty years";85 and the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    News-Times thundered that "the Kaiser has awarded the Iron Cross for less valuable
                    service than that rendered by Mr. Bryan."86 The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Courier assured its readers that "Mr. Bryan is no more anxious for peace than
                    President 
                  
                     83
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 10, 1915, p. 8.
                  
                     84
                            
                                Monticello
                            , Indiana, Herald, June 17, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, American, June 17, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     86
                            
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, News-Times, June 9, 1915, p. 2.
               
                     Wilson is. The difference is that the President is for peace
                    with honor and Mr. Bryan for peace-at-any-price."87
            
            Such support as the battered Bryan received came chiefly from three sources. Quakers and other
                    pacifists upheld him. Some of the Democrats were inclined to apologize for the man who had been the
                    protector of the party in those long, lean years when it wandered in the wilderness of defeat and
                    was therefore to be regarded as more than just another of the many recent unsuccessful Democratic
                    presidential candidates.88 The last quarter from which he received approbation,
                    he could well have been spared. The German-Americans and Irish who had formerly possessed "full
                    evidence of his endeavors to serve Great Britain for family reasons or even more discreditable
                        motives"89 suddenly discovered that he was the "only really intelligent man
                    in 
                        Washington
                    ."90 Through the following weeks they invited all "Friends
                    of Peace" to rally around Bryan in order to prevent a dictatorial President from dragging an
                    unwilling country into war. But they demonstrated a complete lack of comprehension of the
                    temperament of the public, and thus hampered their cause, by insisting that Wall Street and the
                    munition manufacturers were responsible for the agitation following the sinking of the
                        "Lusitania."91
            
            
               
                  87
                        
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Courier, June 10, 1915, p. 2. About one hundred
                        citizens of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , including Meredith Nicholson, Jacob P. Dunn, Demarchus C. Brown, Hugh McK. Landon,
                        and William Fortune, sent a resolution to President Wilson pledging their support and denouncing
                        "renegade opposition." See 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Daily Times, June 12, 1915, p. 1. The 
                            Princeton
                         Chamber of Commerce sponsored a public meeting which sent a note to the President
                        commending his stand and offering "congratulations that you are at last able to be sure of the
                        unanimity of your official advisers." See 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, June 11, 1915, p. 1.
               
                  88 Attica, Indiana, 
                     
                        Fountain-Warren
                      Democrat,
                        June 10, 1915, p. 3; 
                            Rensselaer
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Jasper County
                             Democrat, June 12, 1915, p. 2; 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  ,
                            Times, June 9, 1915, p. 6; Kendallville, Indiana, News-Sun, July 14, 1915, p. 4.
               
                  89
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, June 10, 1915, p. 8.
               
                  90
                        Ibid. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Telegraph und Tribune, June 9, 1915, p. 4, felt that "Man must be forever
                        thankful" toward Bryan for his "big service to 
                            Germany
                        ." The Irish 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Catholic, which had long considered Bryan to be its
                        special enemy, now called for a special session of Congress to investigate the reasons for his
                        "forced" resignation. See issue of June 11, 1915, p. 4. The German-Americans and Irish were
                        somewhat discomfited, however, by Bryan's assertions that the sinking of the
                        "Lusitania" could not be defended, that the American quarrels with 
                            Germany
                         and 
                            England
                         should be separately disposed of, and his continued defense of the munitions trade.
               
                  91
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Telegraph und Tribune, June 9, 1915, p. 4; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Catholic, June 11, 1915, p. 4; 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana,
            
            
            Amidst the sound and fury of the assaults on the ex-Secretary of State, the people of Indiana gave
                    little attention to his proposals that (1) the President should warn Americans against traveling on
                    belligerent ships, (2) prevent American vessels from carrying munitions, and (3) arbitrate the
                    dispute with 
                        Germany
                     after the fashion provided in the cooling off treaties. Undoubtedly much of the
                    previous sentiment favorable to these ideas remained in the Middle West. But due to the growing
                    impatience toward 
                        Germany
                    , the unwillingness to strengthen the impression of national disunity, the compulsion
                    felt by the Democrats to hold up the hands of Wilson, and the congenital inability of the
                    Republicans to agree with Bryan, little attention was paid to them at this point. Moreover, there
                    was to be in some quarters a future tendency to associate such proposals with "peace-at-any-price"
                    and pro-German doctrines.
            Under the circumstances, Flag Day, June 14, and Independence Day took on special importance this
                    year. On the former occasion patriotic paraders, with "Old Glory" to front and rear, trudged through
                    the streets of a number of cities under the sponsorship of the local Elks Lodge.92 Sunday, July 4,
                    was designated Americanization Day and dedicated to a "rebaptism of patriotism" for "Americans by
                    birth and Americans by choice." Special services were held in the churches, at which war
                    veterans occupied reserved seats, patriotic songs were lustily rendered, and the clergy thanked God
                    for America.93 Of the holiday motorists who thronged the roads, "it was
                    an exception to see a car without a display of the national colors."94
                    All in all, it was an uncommonly patriotic Fourth and the first one for many a year whose motif was
                    not antagonism to 
                        England
                    .
            
               
                  Demokrat, June 10, 1915, p. 1. S. M. Sexton wrote to the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star expressing the belief that if no property had been lost in the sinking of
                        the "Lusitania," there would have been no crisis. See issue of June 3, 1915, p. 6.
                        George Sylvester Viereck pleaded with the American people not to go to war "to defend the rights
                        of Wall Street gamblers to their pound of flesh." See 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 25, 1915, p. 2.
               
                  92
                        
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana, News-Times, June 12, 1915, p. 1; 
                            Huntingburg
                        , Indiana, Independent, June 19, 1915, p. 2; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, June 14, 1915, p. 1.
               
                  93 Sullivan, Indiana, Union, July 7, 1915, p. 1; 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Courier, June 12, 1915, p. 6; 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, News-Times, July 2, 1915, p. 4; Kendallville, Indiana,
                            News-Sun, July 6, 1915, p. 1.
               
                  94
                        
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Lake County
                             News, July 15, 1915, p. 2.
            
            
            Four days later the German answer to the American note was handed to Ambassador Gerard. Again there
                    was no disavowal and no promise for the future, and again the editors grew critical. "
                        Germany
                     did not even say 'please write again,'" quipped the 
                        Frankfort
                    
                    Crescent-News.
               95 Back went the American reply on July 21,
                    1915, constituting the third "Lusitania" note written by the 
                        United States
                    . The warning that repetitions of the sinkings "must be regarded by the 
                        United States
                    , when they affect American citizens, as deliberately unfriendly," was
                    recognized as an intended final remonstrance. The 
                        United States
                     would write no more on this matter, and future relations between the two countries
                    would depend on German action. But so long as that action was correct the public would not insist
                    that 
                        Germany
                     set her seal to humiliating words. As one contemporary wrote: 
                        The note calls for no answer, unless 
                                Germany
                             wishes. If the Imperial Government is afraid of public opinion in 
                                Germany
                             it need not reply, and yet it may continue the friendship of the 
                                United States
                             by stopping those naval acts in contravention of American rights.96
                  
                     Anyway, the people had grown weary of words, and innumerable facetious remarks were being
                    made concerning the necessity of "an extraordinary index and filing system"97 to
                    keep track of the many communications that had been written.
            The "final" word having been said, it was hoped that the submarine danger was laid. So strongly did
                    they wish such a consummation that the public appeared determined to prevent any future crisis by
                    refusing to discuss the possibility of its occurrence. A return to a more tranquil relationship with
                    the Central Powers became all the easier because of tightening relations with 
                        England
                     as a result of her latest unsatisfactory explanation which had arrived while the third
                    "Lusitania" note still lingered in the newspapers. Its uncompromising tone was generally resented.
                    Editors and politicians welcomed the chance to mollify the pro-Germans and prove their neutrality by
                    salting their comments 
                  
                     95
                            
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana, Crescent-News, July 14, 1915, p. 4. See also
                            Seymour, Indiana, Republican, July 13, 1915, p. 4; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, July 12, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     96
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, July 24, 1915, p. 10.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Monticello
                            , Indiana, Herald, August 19, 1915, p. 4. See also 
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Star, July 16, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, Star, July 8, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, Reveille, June 24, 1915, p. 4.
               
                     with angry and sarcastic adjectives and instructing the State
                    Department to dispatch a sharp reprimand.98 English citation of Civil War
                    precedents to strengthen the legality of her deeds was particularly resented by the average citizen:
                        
                        The less said by British diplomats about what happened during the Civil War the
                            better… the people of the North have not forgotten how 
                                England
                             sought to take advantage of our misfortunes, even when it involved the lending
                            of aid and comfort to men in rebellion against the national authority and in behalf of the
                            institution of slavery.99
                  
                    Henry James's coincidental exchange of his American citizenship for an English
                    allegiance also drew fire in the Middle West where expatriates customarily were regarded as high-hat
                    aristocrats or worse. One local patriot bid a sarcastic and elaborate good-by to the "veneered
                    Briton, who ought to draw a garter or a pair of suspenders from the crown for his formal shift of
                    allegiance. To paraphrase Indiana's chief man of letters: 'Good bye, Hen, take Keer
                        o'yerself.'"100 Yet it is clear that though the citizens enjoyed growling at 
                        England
                     in this manner and although they wanted a sharp note sent her way, their anger was
                    firmly leashed by their sense of caution, and any thoughts of definite action dissolved harmlessly
                    before the unchanging facts that (1) for ideological and national reasons most of them wished the
                    war to end in a defeat of Hohenzollern and Hapsburg,101 (2) loss of life was not
                    involved, and (3) English sea actions did no material harm to Indiana economic interests.102 Having 
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 27, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 28, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, July 26, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, August 7, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     100
                            Ibid., August 7, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     101 At the time of the first American protest to 
                                England
                             an editorial in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star minced no words on this score. "What man can doubt that were 
                                Germany
                             to sweep the seas of British warships her strong commercial grasp upon South
                            America would be turned into an actual governmental grasp? Then we should be
                            faced with the choice of throwing the 
                                Monroe
                             Doctrine overboard or fighting for it. In this sense the British fleet today is
                            really the American fleet…. Let us not turn a reasonable note to a friendly
                            nation into an occasion for jingoistic onslaughts upon her in her hour of need."
                            See issue of January 1, 1915, p. 6. An influential minority in the state had been asserting
                            from the beginning of the war that a German victory would endanger America. Instinctively,
                            many of the less vocal Hoosiers seem to have felt likewise–how many, it is
                            impossible to say. As far as this group was concerned, American foreign policy of 1915 was
                            not so much a cause of eventual war as it was an immediate entry into the conflict.
                  
                     102
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Farmer's Guide, November 7, 1914, p. 1174,
                            noted that the war had helped the northern but injured the
               
                     opposed war with unpopular 
                        Germany
                     over the destruction of life on the "Lusitania," they had no wish to risk
                    martial conflict with the more popular Allies over property losses suffered by American exporting
                    corporations. Postwar historians have sometimes contended that the administration gave away a strong
                    case against the Allies in 1915 without compensation.103 Perhaps it did. But it
                    is clear that their government was doing all that the public wanted done with regard to Allied sea
                    action. Public and President, apparently, traveled the same road to the same conclusions.
            In any event, the headline news of August 20, 1915, "Liner Arabic Finds Grave Alongside
                        Lusitania,"104 pushed the irregularities of the prize court into
                    the background as State Department and public wearily took up again the threads of submarine
                    diplomacy. The situation was all the more acute because this time there could be no excuse on the
                    ground that the Americans were on a munition-laden ship, for as editor after editor pointed out the
                    "Arabic" was westward bound and its American passengers on their way home.105
            
            On the whole, however, the tragedy seems to have been received with more regret than anger-regret
                    that the diplomatic calm had been broken and another wrangle was at hand. It was characteristic of
                    those days that, though they were far less emotionally moved than they had been by the "Lusitania"
                    tragedy, the people would have been more willing for their government to have severed diplomatic
                    relations with 
                        Germany
                    . Not that they wanted to take that step, but there was a general feeling that, in view
                    of the fact that four written protests had already been made in which a "position" had been
                    officially taken, the 
                        United States
                     had no choice but to adopt strong measures if this deed proved 
                  southern farmer. See also Horace C. Peterson, Propaganda for War, The
                                Campaign Against American Neutrality, 19H-1917 (
                        Norman, Oklahoma
                     ,
                            1939), 80. Those who suffered most from English sea activity had been the meat packers,
                            cotton growers, and importing and exporting firms generally. Except for a slight interest in
                            the first, Indiana had virtually no economic stake in these.
                  
                     103 Alice M. Morrissey, The American Defense of Neutral
                                Rights: 19H-1917 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1939); Charles C. Tansill, America Goes to War (
                                Boston
                            , 1938), 134-62, ff.
                  
                     104 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, August 20, 1915, p. 1.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 20, 1915, p. 8; Port 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, August 20, 1915, p. 1; Gary,
                            Indiana, Post-Tribune, August 20, 1915, p. 1.
               
                     to be 
                        Germany
                    's answer to the last American warning.106 A 
                        Goshen
                     editor reflected this attitude in an "open letter" whose ironical tone was aimed at
                    both German action and administration verbiage: 
                        Dear Kaiser: In spite of previous correspondence on the subject another ship with American
                            citizens on board has been sunk. Under the circumstances we feel constrained to inform you,
                            in a spirit of utmost friendliness, that a repetition of the incident will of necessity
                            require the dispatch of another note to your majesty's most estimable and
                            peace-loving government.107
                  
                    
            
            Representatives of the German government demonstrated their awareness of this growing impatience on
                    the part of public and government by the dispatch with which they hastened to apply diplomatic
                    medication. On August 24, 1915, Ambassador Johann von Bernstorff expressed the regret of his country
                    for the loss of life, and more important, announced that the sinking was contrary to the intentions
                    of the German government. Foreign Minister von Jagow matched this with a conciliatory pronouncement
                    from Berlin, and a few days later, September 1, von Bernstorff put in writing the solemn pledge that
                    "Liners will not be sunk by our submarines without warning and without safety of the lives of
                    non-combatants, provided that the liners do not try to escape or offer resistance." A few
                    were skeptical and a few noted that the promise applied only to liners, but most Hoosiers hailed the
                    German surrender as a "bloodless victory" which had preserved national "dignity" without the
                    sacrifice of "peace and prosperity."108 Presumably, diplomacy had been
                    proved "more effective than bullets."109 Whereas the victory had been
                    won without resorting to the bellicose methods of Roosevelt or making the concessions advocated by
                    Bryan, it was further regarded as proof of the wisdom of Wilson's policy,110 and his personal star ascended higher than it was to go again during peacetime. With the
                    danger 
                  
                     106
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, August 25, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Decatur
                            , Indiana, Daily Democrat, August 20, 1915, p. 2 and August
                            23, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     107
                            
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, News-Times, August 20, 1915, p. 2.
                  
                     108
                            
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, Democrat, September 2, 1915, p. 4; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, August 28, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     109 North Judson, Indiana, News, September 16, 1915,
                            p. 4.
                  
                     110 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Public Press, September 21, 1915, p. 1,
                            sarcastically noted that the concessions had been won without benefit of the much-offered
                            advice of "Col. Bryan, Col. Roosevelt, or Col. Watterson."
               
                     past and the goal achieved, all hastened to affirm that the 
                        United States
                     had demanded nothing that was not rightly hers and 
                        Germany
                     had but bowed to the obviously correct.111
            
            Yet submarine disturbances for 1915 were not entirely ended. A moderate flurry arose in September
                    upon receipt of a new note defending the "Arabic" sinking but quickly subsided following 
                        Germany
                    's capitulation on October 5. The "Hesperian," "Ancona," and
                    the "Persia" were torpedoed and sunk with loss of American lives in the closing months of the year.
                    Though not one of these developments was considered of primary importance, together they provided
                    enough friction to keep alive a sense of irritation among the public. One citizen fumed after the
                    "Ancona" sinking: 
                        So long as this sort of thing goes on it is pitifully imbecile for 
                                Germany
                             and 
                                Austria
                             to complain because of American apathy on the maritime excess of the British.
                            You might as well ask a man to examine the fraudulent deed some sharper had given him to his
                            house and lot at a moment when the neighbor's dog is chewing off his
                            baby's arm.112
                  
                    
            
            In recapitulation it becomes apparent that of the many factors conditioning America's
                    relation to the European war in 1915 the most consequential was the unterseeboot.
                    And though the year ended in comparative calm, irretraceable steps had been taken in public opinion.
                    The people would never quite cease to view the European strife through the portholes of the
                    "Lusitania" and "Arabic," particularly the former. The humanitarian antipathy toward 
                        Germany
                     previously held by a majority of the citizens had been deepened. Of far greater
                    significance, a nationalistic antagonism had been added. Preparedness sentiment had arisen sharply.
                    The victory had strengthened the public's belief in the rightness of the American position
                    and had set their feet on a road from which they could turn back with only the greatest difficulty,
                    for having won through on these issues once, it would prove almost impossible to back down when the
                    same or similar disputes arose in the future. The number of those who were pro-Ally probably had not
                    been appreciably increased, for the pro-Germans and Anglophobes remained unconvinced. 
                  
                     111 Compare the cautious words of the 
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, on August 23, 1915, p. 4, when war
                            threatened, with the forthright assertions of September 2, 1915, p. 4, after 
                                Germany
                             had yielded.
                  
                     112
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, November 16, 1915, p. 8,
               
                     But these groups were placed on the defensive, and it had been
                    demonstrated that they would not create a diversion in case of war. Hereafter, there was no
                    substantial chance of an arms embargo, and there was even less need than formerly for 
                        England
                     to fear strong retaliatory measures against her commercial policy as long as it did not
                    endanger American lives. Despite the increasing number of jests concerning illimitable note writing,
                    the administration's handling of the submarine issue had reflected the sentiments of the
                    people with singular accuracy.
            The next spring, 1916, a new diplomatic crisis arose when the Germans torpedoed the Allied
                    merchantman "Sussex" in violation of the promise of September 1, seriously injuring several
                    Americans. The German pledge of May 4 to abide by the rules of cruiser warfare ended the impasse and
                    marked the beginning of a several months' period of improved relations with the 
                        United States
                    . During that lull occurred the election of 1916. But February 1, 1917, the German
                    government began a desperate attempt to cut the Allied life lines by unrestricted submarine warfare,
                    sinking neutral as well as belligerent vessels. When in March a number of unarmed American ships
                    were destroyed without warning, the country was confronted with the alternatives of withdrawing its
                    shipping from the north Atlantic for the duration of the conflict or going to war to defend it. For
                    that reason-and for other significant ones outside the scope of this work-the 
                        United States
                     formally declared war on 
                        Germany
                     April 6, 1917.
         
         
         
            Alexander Lawrie, Painter
            VICTOR E. GIBBENS
            
            When John Lawrie, an intrepid young man from 
                        New York City
                    , came west in 1850 or 1851 at the wish of his parents to select a location for
                    settlement in Indiana, a train of circumstances and events was set in motion which resulted in
                    giving to the state of Indiana and to the State Soldiers' Home in particular the collection of
                    portraits which now hang on the walls of the library at the Home.1 The story of
                    these events has never been told.2
            
            John Lawrie chose a site in White County, which came to be known as Wolf Mound Farm, and to which a
                    brother Arthur, a sister Mary, and his parents, Alexander Lawrie and Sarah Coombes Lawrie, came in
                    1852. A brother James and another sister Elizabeth, wife of Robert Telfer, remained behind in 
                        New York City
                    ; and another brother, Alexander, Jr., a rising young portrait painter, in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .3 Reports from the new settlers were evidently favorable, since
                    James, Elizabeth, and her husband had joined them in Indiana by 1860. The only member of the
                    immediate family who still remained in the East was Alexander, Jr., about whom this account centers.
            Alexander Lawrie, Jr., was born in 
                        New York City
                     on February 25, 1828. His father was a Scotch immigrant and his mother4 was the
                    daughter of Andrew Coombes, a captain in the patriot army during the Revolutionary War and brother
                    to the officer of the squad which captured Major Andre near Tarrytown, 
                        New York
                    . Nothing is known of 
                  
                     1 These include 143 portraits in oil and a crayon portrait.
                  
                     2 The story given here is pieced together from numerous unpublished
                            journals of the Lawrie family and from many other sources, including letters, government
                            records and publications, and newspaper stories. The most important source is the three
                            extant journals of Alexander Lawrie, Jr., kept respectively from April 16, 1863, to December
                            31, 1869; from January 12, 1870, to January 23, 1877; and from January 1, 1890, to December
                            31, 1896. They will be referred to as Journals I, II, and III.
                  
                     3 Mary Bronson Hartt, "Alexander Lawrie," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928-1936), XI (1933), 54.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 2, 1903. In reporting an interview with Mr. Lawrie, W. M.
                            Herschell wrote, "His father was a Scotch tradesman, his mother an American with a
                            love for art. Young Lawrie stood by her side in his boyhood days and saw her brush daintily
                            blend the colors until roses and violets grew on the canvas. She was fond of flowers and
                            painted them."
               
                     Alexander's childhood, and only a fortunate bit of
                    reminiscing in the diary he kept in the 1890's saves the period of his youth from the same
                    obscurity. He wrote that his early desire to become a painter was strongly opposed by his parents,
                    who, as a compromise, had apprenticed him in 1843 to a wood engraver. This apprenticeship lasted
                    until 1852.
            During the last two or three years of the apprenticeship, he studied painting and crayon portraiture
                    and spent some time as a student at the National Academy of Design. In 1852 he went to 
                        Philadelphia
                    -probably at the time his parents moved to Indiana-and became profitably engaged in
                    making crayon portraits. In 1852 and 1854 his work was included in the exhibitions of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of the Fine Arts, at which he was enrolled as a student in I860.5
            
            On August 11, 1855, ambitious to improve himself in his work as an artist, he sailed for Europe on
                    the "S.S. Ariel." There he studied briefly at 
                        Paris
                     and Florence and about twenty-two months at Dusseldorf under the tutelage of Emanuel
                    Leutze, famous for the portrait of "
                        Washington
                     Crossing the 
                        Delaware
                    ."
            On his return to America in October, 1857, Lawrie settled again in 
                        Philadelphia
                     where he continued his career until April 18, 1861. On that date he enlisted for three
                    months' service with the 17th Regiment of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Volunteer Infantry. On September 5, 1862, slightly over a year after his initial
                    discharge, he re-enlisted as captain of Company B, 121st 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Volunteer Infantry.6 The 121st Regiment saw action in the 
                        Fredericksburg
                     campaign on December 13, 14, and 15, 1862, before going into winter quarters.7 Major Alexander Biddle cited Captain Lawrie as "deserving of special
                        notice."8 On January 20, 1863, the Regiment started on what was
                    referred to as "Burnside's Mud March," an utterly useless expedition from which
                    the 
                  
                     5 From records of the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Academy of the Fine Arts.
                  
                     6 Samuel P. Bates, History of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, 1861-1865 (5 vols., 
                        Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                     , 1869-1871), IV (1870), 40; History of the
                                121st Regiment 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers by the Survivors' Association (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1906), 254. This information is also given in Alexander Lawrie's
                            Journal I, June 9, 1863, and also in Lawrie's application for admission to the
                            State Soldiers' Home, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     7 Bates, History of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, IV, 30-31.
                  
                     8
                            History of the 121st Regiment 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, 39.
               
                     men struggled back to camp on January 25.9
                    Lawrie, in an affidavit for a pension written in 1896,10 accounted for a disease
                    of the kidneys as follows: 
                        I attribute it to a heavy cold I caught during the middle of January 1863 brought on by being
                            exposed then for six days and nights to a continious [sic] rain storm
                            without any shelter whatever, at the time when Gen. Burnside attempted to march us against
                            Gen. Lee.
                    
            
            On February 1, Captain Lawrie's company was detailed for duty at the headquarters of General
                    John F. Reynolds.11 Lawrie left the camp on sick leave on April 14. Bringing his
                    war service to a close, on June 9 he submitted his resignation grounded on a surgeon's
                    certificate of disability and received his honorable discharge on June 21, 1863.12
            
            In the meantime, his family had been taking an active part in the course of events out West. His
                    brother John, the most restless member of the family and an ardent abolitionist, had fought with the
                    free state forces in 
                        Kansas
                     in 1856.13 His brother Arthur had participated in an exploring
                    expedition to northeastern 
                        Texas
                     in 1854 and 1855.14 John 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 41. The full account follows: "Here [in winter quarters]
                            it [the Regiment] remained until January 20, 1863, when it started for Bank's Ford
                            on what was known in the army as 'Burnside's Mud March,' under command of
                            Lieutanant-Colonel Davis, Colonel Biddle having received a leave of absence. Eain began
                            falling at the start and continued day in and day out until the roads were so muddy that it
                            was almost impossible to travel. Many of the men left their shoes sticking in the mud, and
                            often they themselves had to be hauled out of the mud by their comrades. The artillery stuck
                            fast, and so did the pontoon trains, which had finally to be pulled out of the mud by the
                            infantry. The army was, in fact, stuck in the mud, and could not budge one way or the other.
                            Finally, on the 25th, the men managed to get back to the camp at White Oak Church,
                            completely fagged out and more dead than alive-the worst looking set of 'Yanks' possible to
                            imagine."
                  
                     10 The affidavit is in the files of the State Soldiers' Home.
                  
                     11
                            History of the 121st Regiment 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, 41.
                  
                     12 Alexander Lawrie's Journal I, April 16, June 9, and
                            October 13, 1863. However, this date is recorded as July 21, 1863, in Bates, History of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, IV, 40; and History of the 121st Regiment 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Volunteers, 254.
                  
                     13 Victor E. Gibbens (ed.), "Letters on the War in 
                                Kansas
                             in 1856," 
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 Historical Quarterly (
                        Topeka, Kansas
                     ,
                            1931-), X (1941), 369-79.
                  
                     14 An account of this trip is given in one of two extant diaries of
                            Arthur Lawrie. The first journal contains scattered entries dating from 1851 to 1856; the
                            second, daily entries from November 21, 1897, to March 27, 1899, and deals mainly with
                            routine life on Arthur Lawrie's White County farm. His journal states "northwestern 
                                Texas
                            ," but it is obvious that his exploring took place in what is now
                            called northeastern 
                                Texas
                            .
               
                     had also participated in much fighting in the Civil War, and
                    James had been a soldier but did not see active service.
            Though by 1863 the family roots had become firmly fastened in Indiana soil, Alexander had not
                    travelled west of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and it was to be a long time before any idea of making Indiana his home entered his
                    mind. A desire to see his close relatives, however, led him on his first journey west in 1867 for a
                    brief visit.
            At the conclusion of his war service in 1863, he turned eagerly to his painting. In June he left 
                        Philadelphia
                     for a period of convalescence in the Lake George region of 
                        New York
                    , where, during that summer and the following summers throughout the 1860's, he
                    was to fraternize with many of the landscape painters who have since been referred to as the Hudson
                    River School.15 Among them were Asher B. Durand, one of the two "fathers" of the
                    school; Homer D. Martin; Sandford R. Gifford; Thomas Hicks; R. M. Hubbard; Jervis McEntee; and other
                    painters occupying important places in the history of American painting. He was especially close to
                    Durand, who took an almost fatherly interest in him, and to W. T. Richards, who accompanied him on
                    his trip abroad in 1855 and with whom he shared a studio for some time on their return to 
                        Philadelphia
                    .16
            
            In April, 1864, Lawrie resolved to spend the summer at Elizabethtown, 
                        New York
                    , and then to try his fortunes in 
                        New York City
                     in the fall. October found him established in his new location, where he remained until
                    1878 except for a few trips to 
                        Philadelphia
                     to make oil and crayon portraits. The winters were spent in the studio in town; the
                    summers, in the Adirondacks and the Hudson Highlands. This period marked the zenith of his career.
                    From 1866 to 1877 inclusive, except in 1867 and 1874, his paintings were represented in the annual
                    exhibition of the National Academy of Design,17 to which he was elected an
                    associate member first in 1868 and again in 1876.18 His portrait of a Mrs. Henry
                    Marks 
                  
                     15 Samuel Isham, The History of American Painting (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 232-54.
                  
                     16 Harrison S. Morris, William T. Richards (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1912), 21.
                  
                     17 National Academy of Design, 
                                New York City
                            , to Gibbens, November 7, 1940.
                  
                     18 Alexander Lawrie's Journal I, June 15, 1868, and Journal
                            II, May 11, 1876.
               
                     occupied the place of honor in the 1876 exhibition. An art
                    critic discussing the Academy Exhibition of 1877 praised a portrait of his as follows: 
                        There is a portrait of a three-quarter length by Mr. Lauire [sic] (456)
                            that is simply admirable-admirable in execution, in the rich simplicity of the dress, in the
                            fresh liveliness of the face, in the union of boldness and strength with gentleness and
                                delicacy.19
                  
                    
            
            In the period of his greatest successes, Lawrie was elected to membership in the Athenaeum Club, the
                    Century Club, and the Artists' Fund Society. He served as secretary of the latter from 1870 to 1873
                    and is recorded as a member through the 1878-1879 membership list.
            In addition to the painting praised by the Art Journal, a landscape called "Autumn
                    in the Hudson Highlands" seems to have been highly regarded. It was displayed, along with another
                    painting called "Monk Playing a Violoncello," at the Centennial Exposition at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1876.20
            
            By 1878 commissions had grown so scarce that Lawrie moved to 
                  Hartford, Connecticut
               ,
                    where, hoping to find a more profitable location than 
                        New York City
                     had become, he remained until 1881. Since there are no journals covering the
                    1880's either of Lawrie or of any of his relatives, why he gave up residence at 
                        Hartford
                     is not known. A reasonable assumption, however, is that commissions were no more
                    plentiful there than in 
                        New York City
                    . At this time Lawrie moved to Indiana, where he lived until August, 1887, except for a
                    brief trip back to 
                        New York
                     in 1884, a year in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1885 and 1886, and about two months in Battle Creek in 1886.21
                    He had returned to 
                        New York City
                     by August 30, 1887, where, since he makes no mention of being elsewhere and since he
                    was there on January 1, 1890, it is likely he spent the next two years and four months. In October
                    of 1890 he departed for a six-month residence in 
                        Denver
                    , where his hope of commissions turned to great disappointment at finding hardly any
                        painting.22 He returned again to 
                        New York
                     to live in growing anxiety at his inability 
                  
                     19 "The Academy Exhibition," Art Journal (
                                New York
                            , 1875-), III (1877), 157-60. Quoted in Clara E. Clement and Lawrence Hutton,
                                Artists of the Nineteenth Century (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1884), II, 44.
                  
                     20 Hartt, "Alexander Lawrie," Dictionary of American Biography, XI, 54.
                  
                     21 Alexander Lawrie's Journal III, May 11, 1890.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., entries from October 15, 1890, to April 27, 1891.
               
                     to make a living; though he sold an occasional portrait, he
                    found himself going more and more deeply into debt.23 Finally in 1895 he severed
                    all connections with 
                        New York
                     Gity and departed to make a permanent home with his brother Arthur in Indiana. After a
                    family disagreement, however, several years later,24 he went back to 
                        New York
                     and on July 18, 1898, obtained admission to the Southern Branch of the National Home
                    for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers at Hampton, 
                        Virginia
                    , where he was an inmate until April 5, 1900.25
            
            Following a short stay in 
                        New York City
                     where he was ill in Bellevue Hospital,26 he returned for the last
                    time to Indiana. In December, 1901, he applied for admission to the State Soldiers' Home at 
                        Lafayette
                    , to which he was admitted on January 12, 1902.
            Though Lawrie was then almost seventy-four years old, he was as eager to paint as he had been upon
                    his resignation from the army in 1863. He began to paint portraits of Indiana generals who had
                    fought in the Civil War; and his original plans for doing forty portraits27 were
                    extended again and again until, with a few paintings which he brought with him when he entered the
                    Home, he had over 150 in various stages of completion when he died on February 15, 1917. Lawrie
                    bequeathed all the portraits to the state, which had furnished the art materials and the frames.28 In 1907 he 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., entries from October 15, 1890 to April 27, 1891.
                  
                     24 Arthur Lawrie's Journal II. June 3, 1898, "
                            …. Rob't tended corn on N. 80 all day. I worked in garden and potatoe patch-War
                            at the dinner table! Bro Alex went to Chalmers this afternoon. We will now have
                            peace!-Monday, June 6th 1898. Bro Alex went off to 
                                New York
                             this morning."
                  
                     25 Veterans Administration Records, Kecoughtan, 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 2, 1903; and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 11, 1909.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 11, 1909.
                  
                     28 The Indiana State Library has a manuscript signed by Alexander
                            Lawrie which lists his paintings in the collection at the Soldiers' Home. Lawrie's
                            introduction to the list follows: "A list of portraits in oil, painted by Alex
                            Lawrie of U.S. Generals of both Regular and Volunteer served in the war of 1861-5, on the
                            Federal side. This collection is now framed and hanging in the Library building at the
                            Indiana State Soldiers Home. There are one hundred and thirty portraits contained in it.
                            Seventy two of these portraits are of generals from the state of Indiana, 59 of volunteer
                            service and 12 of the regular army. (72 in all.) This collection of Indiana Officers
                            represents the whole list of those who served from the state of Indiana,
                            and is of the greatest historical value to those of a coming generation. It is earnestly
                            desired by the painter and many other persons, that a suitable and properly lighted gallery
                            should be built in the city of 
               
                     had donated approximately one hundred books and manuscripts,
                    mostly longhand translations of French books on painting, to the John Heron Art Institute of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .29
            
            Only one other collection of Lawrie's paintings is known -that of six portraits of generals
                    which is in the possession of the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy.30 Three oil portraits, one of which is a
                    self-portrait, a crayon head, and two small landscapes are owned by a great-nephew, Robert Telfer,
                    of near 
                        Lafayette
                    . Mrs. Nancy Telfer of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     has a self-portrait of Lawrie in his Civil War uniform, and other relatives possess a
                    painting or two each. Mrs. Brantz Mayor of 
                        New York
                     owns a painting called "Lady Writing in a Parlor," which was exhibited as a
                    part of the Metropolitan Museum's "Life in America" show in conjunction with the
                    World's Fair in 1939.31 A portrait in oil of Judge Sutherland belongs
                    to the 
                        New York
                     Bar Association, and a crayon head of Richard H. Stoddard was bequeathed at the
                    poet's death to the Authors' Club of 
                        New York City
                    .
            Of the portraits at West Point, Colonel R. G. Alexander, professor of drawing at the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy, writes: 
                        While I am not qualified to estimate the artistic merits of our Lawrie paintings, I should
                            judge them to be good. They do not, of course, rate with our most valuable portraits, those
                            by Stuart and 
                        
                                    
                              
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , under the supervision of a competent architect, for the
                                        preservation of this collection of historical portraits, because the Library
                                        gallery at the Soldiers Home is badly constructed and there is not sufficient
                                        light by which to enable one to see the portraits as they should be seen,
                                        besides, the book cases in the Library building are in the way, and effectually
                                        prevent the portraits from being seen to proper advantage.
                                    "Here follows a list of the portraits finished and now hanging in the
                                        gallery, 130 in all. There are 25 more to be added when they are finished which
                                        will make a total of 155 portraits."
                                
                        
                           29
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, February 16, 1917. The article states, "His gift
                                    was the foundation of the present library of the institute." According to
                                    the librarian at the Institute, this is a misstatement; the gift was actually of
                                    little importance.
                        
                           30 Five of these portraits are mentioned in Kendall Banning,
                                        West Point Today (
                                        New York
                                    , 1937), 117, 151, 152, 153. Banning fails, however, to mention
                                    Lawrie's portrait of Major General G. K. Warren, which hangs in the U. S.
                                    M. A. Library.
                        
                           31 A photograph of this painting is shown in the Metropolitan
                                    Museum's publication called Life in America, A Special Loan
                                        Ehxibition of Paintings Held During the Period of the 
                                            New York
                                         World's Fair April 2U to October 29 (
                                        New York
                                    , 1939), 168.
                     
                             Sully, but on the other hand I think them considerably
                            better than many others in our collection.32
                  
                    
            
            When asked about Lawrie's paintings, Wilbur Peat, director of the John Herron Art Institute,
                    wrote, "I have not seen the portraits in the Old Soldiers' Home painted by Lawrie, but
                    judging from some of the reproductions I would say that they were very well painted."33
            
            Alexander Lawrie was never married. His earliest diary records a brief romance in the summer of 1863
                    and the following winter. Its collapse is evident only in the sudden and unexplained cessation of
                    all reference to the girl involved. A newspaper story of 1909 gives the information that no one at
                    the Home knew whether he was ever married, that he avoided women and had no confidence in them, and
                    that "it is said that during his youth he was deceived by a girl of whom he was very fond. He will
                    not speak of such a subject."34 A more likely explanation is that
                    Lawrie himself was at fault, as his diaries indicate that, to his own remorse, he often drank too
                    heavily and that he had an unhappy faculty of antagonizing people. Statements in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers that he was modest, unassuming, bright, and cheery35 are to be questioned, for
                    too much evidence exists that, in his old age at any rate, he was quarrelsome and irascible.
            In defense of his shortness of temper in his later years, it is necessary only to point out that his
                    kidney disease, contracted in 1863, was acute and that he was bothered by other ailments common to
                    advanced age. That he succeeded in painting nearly 150 portraits from his entrance to the Home in
                    1902 to his death in 1917 despite his poor health and that the portraits are as good as they are
                    testify to a talent far above average. Though their artistic value may not be exceptional, their
                    historical value, as their painter prophesied, has increased with a new generation; and to the
                    hundreds of visitors who yearly view the paintings at the Soldiers' Home, his labors have made the
                    history of the state a little more vivid.
            
               
                  32 Gibbens to Colonel R. G. Alexander, December 12, 1942, with a brief
                        reply from Colonel Alexander written on the letter.
               
                  33 Wilbur D. Peat to Gibbens, October 23, 1940.
               
                  34
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 11, 1909.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., July 11, 1909; and 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 2, 1903.
            
         
         
         
            Jefferson, the Liberal1
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Member of the Continental Congress, governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , minister to 
                        France
                    , secretary of state, vice-president and President of the 
                        United States
                    , Thomas Jefferson held enough high offices to give him a place of distinction in
                    American history. That he lives in the minds and hearts of men the world over is not due to the
                    imposing list of important posts that he filled. There were qualities in the man that left an
                    indelible impression. In regard to the high stations that he occupied, it is rather that he exalted
                    them than that they added to his stature. Born in 1743, on April 13, the great 
                        Virginia
                     liberal died on July 4, 1826, at the age of eighty-three. A landholder who married into
                    one of the first families of 
                        Virginia
                    , conditions invited him to become a conservative. A reader and thinker as well as an
                    actor, he did not follow the most natural pathway but early became and remained a liberal to the end
                    of his long career.
            It has never been easy to say definitely just what greatness consists of, but the verdicts of history
                    relative to characters classified as great are seldom successfully challenged. Of all the great
                    American contemporaries of Jefferson, perhaps 
                        Washington
                     presents the most difficult question when an attempt is made to analyze his greatness.
                    The best answer seems to be that he was possessed of a balanced judgment-that he had the poise which
                    enabled him to command the respect and attention of others no matter how keen, able, educated, or
                    philosophical they might be. With Jefferson, it was undoubtedly his power to understand men and
                    events and to evaluate them, not only at the moment, but in larger perspective. He did not float
                    with the current nor reach conclusions on the basis of his own interests or those of his class.
                    Looking backward, forward, and under the surface as he lived through his period, he interpreted
                    historic currents with rare insight.
            Civilization in 
                        Virginia
                     had been in the making for more than a century and a half when Jefferson came to
                    manhood. Eighteenth-century 
                        Virginia
                     was indeed a fine part of the 
                  
                     1 This article should have appeared in the preceding issue of this Magazine, but several factors interfered to prevent it.
               
                     world in which to be born and to grow up. This was a real piece
                    of good fortune for Thomas Jefferson as it was for a number of his able contemporaries. The spell
                    that 
                        Virginia
                     cast over her sons and daughters in her flowering time was not lost on Jefferson, but
                    it did not dominate him. He saw the defective as well as the sound elements in the institutional
                    structure of his native province and early became a leader in the crusade to make a better and
                    greater 
                        Virginia
                    . He became a reader and a thinker who was attracted by the criticisms and constructive
                    proposals of daring minds of Europe as well as of America. While yet a young man, he developed
                    strong liberal tendencies and found pleasure in exposing what he believed to be the fallacies in the
                    views of reactionaries. Not only during his young manhood and middle life did he delight in
                    puncturing the smugness of Tory minds, but he also liked to stir them up in his sunset years. It is
                    such a common observation that men who acquire property and established position as they live out
                    their days become more and more conservative with advancing years that it is not much noticed. It
                    is, however, something worthy of consideration when a man does not fit the regular formula.
                    Especially is this true when attending circumstances would naturally make the man a conservative
                    from the beginning of his public career.
            Jefferson lived through the age of the American and French revolutions at the time when the
                    commercial revolution reached a climax and when the industrial revolution was passing through its
                    first stages. The changing scene profoundly influenced him, but while many able men became thorough
                    reactionaries in opposition to the currents of revolution, he was not frightened by the demands or
                    doings of radicals at home or abroad. With their desires and activities, he had much sympathy, but
                    he did not advocate or plan rash or sweeping changes, much as he was hated for his liberalism by the
                    Bourbon-minded "saviors of society."
            When the Revolutionary War was on, many American conservatives became engrossed in the movement. In
                    the days that "tried men's souls," General 
                        Washington
                     and Thomas Paine felt a kinship of spirit; but when, some years later, the latter sent
                    from 
                        England
                     to his one-time fellow rebel fifty copies of his pamphlet, The Rights of
                        Man, conservative President Washington was much embarrassed. In  1802, Paine, again in America, attended one of Jefferson's
                    receptions to which had been invited a small number of senators and representatives of both parties,
                    such a group as was frequently entertained at the President's home. An astonished and
                    disgusted Federalist guest reported that, while he was present, "Thomas Paine entered,
                    seated himself beside the President and conversed and behaved toward him with the familiarity of an
                    intimate and an equal!…"
            When 
                        Washington
                     decided that he could no longer acquiesce in the activities of Genet, Jefferson joined
                    with the President and the other department heads in asking the recall of the French representative.
                    At the same time, he alone among the President's cabinet opposed the policy of ordering a
                    battery to be erected on Mud Island for the purpose of firing on the "Little Sarah," a
                    vessel of the French Republic, should it attempt to depart pending a decision of President
                    Washington. Jefferson gave as one of his reasons for this opposition that he "would not gratify the
                    combination of kings with the spectacle of the only two republics on earth destroying each other for
                    two cannon…."
            In 1798 when the war fever against 
                        France
                     ran high, nothing would have been more natural than for Jefferson, then serving as
                    vice-president, to swim with the current. By so doing, he could have won great popularity with the
                    temporarily all-powerful war party, but he did not take this easy road. Instead, when the majority
                    embraced an antialien policy and undertook to suppress criticism of government policies and leaders,
                    he became the director of a quiet crusade which for a time looked like a forlorn undertaking. For
                    months his influence remained at low-water mark. It required great courage, patience, and faith to
                    stand by his principles in this crisis of 1798. As he said in his own way, "all the firmness of the
                    human mind" must be "in a state of requisition." As he saw his followers flock to the war
                    party in great numbers, Jefferson found himself shunned because he steadfastly stood by his
                    convictions. He wrote in this time of gloom: 
                        Party passions are indeed high. Nobody has more reason to know it than myself. I receive
                            daily proof of it from people who never saw me, nor know anything of me but through
                            Porcupine and Fenno. At this moment all the passions are boiling over, and one who keeps
                            himself cool and clear of the contagion, is so far below the point of  ordinary conversation, that he finds himself insulated in every
                            society. However the fever will not last.
                    
            
            In his letters to steadfast friends, the last note expressed in the above-quoted passage often
                    appeared. Admitting that the immediate outlook was dark, the founder of the Republican party, which
                    now seemed about to vanish, declared an opportunity would come for lost principles to be regained.
                    It was not long until his prophecies were proved to be correct. 
                        France
                     made peace overtures to the 
                        United States
                     which John Adams immediately welcomed. Federalists and Republicans were almost equal in
                    strength in 1796-1797, but in 1798 the Federalists gained an overwhelming ascendancy. The sudden
                    shift to a peace policy by President Adams produced dissension among Federalist leaders, which
                    permitted a rapid return of Republican strength. In January, 1799, Jefferson referred to the war
                    hysteria as the "XYZ inflammation." The return tide was so strong in the latter part of
                    1799 and 1800 that the powerful Federalist party was slightly defeated and the Republicans took over
                    the government in 1801.
            Understanding the ineptitude of Federalist leaders to organize and guide the rank and file of their
                    party, Jefferson sought to detach and win over to the support of his administration large portions
                    of the Federalist following. That is why he said in his first inaugural: "We are all
                    Federalists; we are all Republicans." He did not mean that he accepted Federalist policies
                    or that the Hamiltonians would cease to hate him. By dealing kindly with them, he believed, or at
                    least hoped, that he could turn the less pretentious elements included in the Federalist ranks into
                    Republicans. Especially did he count on the return of all citizens with Republican sympathies who
                    had drifted into the war party in 1798. The Republican showing of 1804, as compared with that of
                    1800, indicates that the drift from the defeated party to the party of Jefferson was quite marked
                    from 1801 to 1804. The Federalist system was not overthrown by the new administration and the
                    so-called "revolution of 1800" meant a change of attitude and outlook rather than the overthrow of
                    established institutions or the rejection of policies.
            The purchase of 
                        Louisiana
                     was made possible because a shifting world situation forced Napoleon to adopt a change
                    of program. Prior to the acquisition, however, Jefferson had 
                    persistently opposed an attack on 
                        New Orleans
                     or West 
                        Florida
                    . Holding such a position, he ran the risk of losing the support of his western
                    followers. The situation was aggravated by the fact that Federalist Senators Gouverneur Morris and
                    James Ross cleverly championed the cause of dissatisfied and belligerent westerners. Relative to the
                    activities of Morris and Ross in the Senate, Jefferson wrote after the consummation of the purchase
                    of the vast region of 
                        Louisiana
                    : 
                        I did not expect he [Napoleon Bonaparte] would yield till a war took place between 
                                France
                             and 
                                England
                            , and my hope was to palliate and endure, if Messrs. Ross, Morris, &c.
                            did not force a premature rupture, until that event. I believed the event not very distant
                            but acknolege [sic] it came sooner than I expected.
                     It was fortunate for Jefferson that his hold on his supporters beyond the mountains was
                    strong enough that they were not stampeded. Their loyalty to him enabled him to succeed. His ability
                    to face the situation intelligently and relinquish his enmity to a broad construction of the
                    Constitution was another vital factor in the acquisition of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Consistency is a splendid quality, but it has often prevented men from taking
                    statesmanlike courses. At this important moment in his career, Jefferson dared to base his decision
                    on the welfare of his country whatever advantage might be given to hostile critics. It may be added
                    that those Federalists who condemned the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase had to face about and adopt the doctrine of strict construction.
            In the trying years from 1805 to 1809 when Great Britain and Napoleon tried to fight their battle
                    through the issuance of anti-neutral decrees and orders, Jefferson sought to avoid war. Believing in
                    the efficacy of employing the economic weapon, he clung stubbornly to his embargo policy through
                    1808. The policy was abandoned by the Republican party under 
                        Madison
                    , but Jefferson never surrendered his belief in his embargo. The wisdom of the policy is
                    debatable, but charges that it was unsound have never been substantiated. The lack of statesmanship
                    on the part of Napoleon and the British Tory leaders in attempting to ruin each other by wrecking
                    American commerce is much more easily demonstrated.
            While Jefferson was President, he was supported by a majority in Congress. He was, therefore, able to
                    perform  like a responsible prime minster. He led his party, and
                    his party controlled both the House and Senate. Federalists had "retired into the
                    judiciary," which gave Jefferson an opportunity to reveal that he was no friend of the
                    doctrine of separation of powers. The writer is bold enough to say that this is much to his credit
                    and laments to add that American citizens have been exceedingly slow to see the foolishness and
                    danger of a system which makes frequent deadlocks possible and easy. There is reason behind
                    responsible leadership and cooperation between executive, legislative, and judicial agents of the
                    people; but government by deadlocks is well-nigh impossible. Moreover, the outmoded doctrine of
                    separation of powers is a great menace to the future of the American government. It has been amply
                    tested and found wanting and should be junked before it does irreparable harm in some crisis.
            The larger things in the life of Jefferson have been extensively written about. In this brief
                    treatment of the liberal leader, the fact that he often refused to follow the natural course has
                    been noted. The belief is that thus one finds the clue to his greatness. His deep interest in
                    agriculture, science, and invention, as well as in political, economic, and social problems, helped
                    to make the man what he became. His sincere concern for the welfare of people generally set him
                    apart from leaders, however able, who labored for the interests of a class and raised up enemies
                    against him. It is understandable that he should be hated, but as one studies his life from the
                    sources, it is impossible not to develop a feeling of pity for his contemporaries, especially for
                    those among them who were educated, cultured, and successful, who indulged in the luxury of
                    despising a leader who was possessed of so many interests and who was a confirmed liberal. What does
                    it profit one to hate a great man?
            What stand would Jefferson take on this or that policy, were he living today? This
                    question is always coming up. No one can answer it definitely in regard to any specific policy, but
                    certain statements can be made without much fear of successful contradiction. If Jefferson were to
                    live again, he would not be Jefferson unless he were a liberal. This being true, he could not defend
                    as sacred every established institution, nor could he consider the work of men who lived in an
                    earlier period under different social and  economic conditions as
                    final. To be himself, he would have to rejoice in the replacement of worn-out institutions, or laws,
                    or customs by others designed to promote human welfare. He would often have to reject the views of
                    reactionaries and laugh at their dire predictions of calamity should proposed innovations be tried
                    out. He could not live in our time without being hated by those who cannot abide liberalism and
                    being supported and revered by those who believe that the lot of the masses of mankind can still be
                    and should be improved.
            If Jefferson were privileged to come back, he would make some mistakes in regard to current problems
                    as he did when he lived. Not prone to venerate too deeply what was done by the fathers, he would
                    reject many things in the established order and criticize some of the sayings of the fathers,
                    including some of his own. Being himself, he could not accept in a new age all that seemed sound to
                    him in his own time. His opinions relative to the problems presented by American industrialism in
                    its present stage would be interesting, for these problems would seem of vast importance to him.
                    Having lived during the early stages of the industrial revolution, about which he thought and said
                    too little, he would undoubtedly find it an absorbing interest about which he would reflect and
                    write and work out some kind of program of action. A thinking contemporary of Napoleon Bonaparte, in
                    whom he lost faith when the revolution made him Emperor, Jefferson, who thought so much about the
                    problems of Europe and the world during his period of maturity, would be profoundly stirred by the
                    global conflict that is on in 1943, two hundred years after his birth. He would surely not fail to
                    comprehend the deep need for world cooperation nor to discern the reasons why favored America should
                    prove a great asset to the peoples of the rest of the world in the period of reconstruction that
                    lies ahead.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            A perusal of historical publications and of reviews of publications leaves one with the impression
                    that historical work on the whole has been haphazard. A study of sources of information about the
                    past which are available also give one the impression that the foundations upon which history is
                    constructed are equally spotty. A mind capable of grasping all written history and all records which
                    have been preserved would certainly find many gaps; it would also find many instances of
                    overelaboration, of duplication, and overemphasis which obscure understanding.
            Against the background of such observations demands arise for some such systematization and extension
                    of historical work as would result in a historically complete coverage of perfect proportion. These
                    demands have found expression both in individuals and in mass movements. The late Clarence W. Alvord
                    many years ago proposed that historical agencies should discontinue the publication of miscellaneous
                    source materials and should begin the systematic publication of all important records in
                    chronological order. The goal would be the complete coverage of the field of historical operations,
                    generation by generation, so that the future writer would find the data he required for a complete
                    understanding of all phases of progress and decay. Confronting such a task, any individual could
                    only throw up his hands in helplessness and despair.
            The Works Progress Administration took up the task as a mass movement, marshaling hundreds of workers
                    and millions of dollars in historical record surveys, writers' projects, union catalogues, and
                    various library and bibliographical projects. Individuals failed through lack of resources and
                    limitations of mind and body. The mass movement fell far short of promises held forth for it by its
                    protagonists, by the defects of its workers, and the unreliability and meaninglessness of much of
                    its product.
            What might be called old-line historical organizations have ploughed ahead for the most part in a
                    haphazard way, with only aspirations toward more comprehensive and systematic achievement. The list
                    of publications of many historical societies discloses a great variety of subjects dealt  with and an indefinite number not even touched. The societies have been
                    opportunist rather than systematic in their policy, publishing what material of requisite quality
                    (often not very high) has happened to be available. College and university departments of history
                    both in their instruction and in their publications show the same tendency. Instruction and
                    production (aside from standard, routine requirements) are determined by personal interests of
                    instructors and students, which, traced to their sources, will be found to be mostly accidental.
            If one could put together all the historical work of the thousands of institutions and the hundreds
                    of thousands of individuals engaged in historical study, it would make a mosaic so fragmentary, so
                    full of holes and overlappings, that it would be of little more help to a general understanding than
                    are conventional standardized textbooks.
            This policy of opportunism, however, has some advantages over a systematic centralized control which
                    would assign to each writer his field of study and piece the results together into a complete
                    picture. Work done along the line of one's own interest has a quality which distinguishes
                    it from work done as an assignment. Perhaps it ought not to be so, but the outcome of a task usually
                    lacks the vitality of a pursuit. The contagion of enthusiasm can never be completely harnessed to a
                    system. The personal satisfaction of working out something in which one is interested, while it will
                    not serve the interest of complete coverage and may not bring about the best use of our resources,
                    imparts an interest of priceless value.
            Effective historical organizations cannot sacrifice this element of personal initiative, individual
                    enthusiasms, and historical adventure. One object of the historical society must continue to be the
                    furnishing of an outlet for the products of adventures in historical research. Even, more, the
                    historical society should reveal to an increasing number of educated persons fields of interest in
                    which they would find pleasure in working; it should stimulate spontaneous historical research.
            The constitution of the Indiana Historical Society presented at its organization meeting 113 years
                    ago is still a good guide: "Article II. The objects of the Society shall be the collection
                    and preservation of all materials calculated  to shed light on
                    the natural, civil, and political history of Indiana; the publication and circulation of historical
                    documents; the promotion of useful knowledge; and the friendly and profitable intercourse of such
                    citizens as are disposed to promote these ends."
         
         
            List of Contributors
            
               Cedric Cummins is an instructor of the extension staff, now teaching in the military program
                        at Indiana University. Victor E. Gibbens is an instructor of English at Purdue University, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana.
               William 0. Lynch is a professor-emeritus of Indiana University and former editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
               J. Herman Schauinger is an instructor of American history at the University of 
                            Idaho
                        , Moscow, 
                            Idaho
                        .
               Mrs. Irene Macy Strieby is librarian for Eli Lilly & Co. and a member of the Genealogy
                        Committee of the Indiana Historical Society.
               Joseph C. Wolf is head of the Genealogy and Local History Department of the Newberry Library, 
                            Chicago
                        .
               Willard H. Smith is professor of history and political science at 
                            Goshen
                         College, 
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE LETTERS OF GODLOVE S. ORTH, HOOSIER AMERICAN
            Edited by J. HERMAN SCHAUINGER
            
            The year 1850 introduced to the people of the 
                        United States
                     a decade of extravagant prosperity-a prosperity led by the rapid expansion in
                    transportation facilities. This decade was to witness the glory of the steamships on the
                        Mississippi River, the grace and speed of the American clipper ships on the
                    oceans, the splendid adventure of the stagecoaches and the Pony Express on the western plains, but
                    was finally to concede the superiority of the railroads as a transportation system.
            At the same time the attention of the people began to be centered on one overwhelming national issue,
                    as the dark cloud known as the slavery question suddenly reappeared on the horizon and slowly but
                    terribly spread over the country. The territorial problem, raised by the cession of vast lands to
                    the 
                        United States
                     by its defeated neighbor, Mexico, seemed to have been settled by the Compromise of
                    1850. Men with vision, men who glimpsed the destiny of a nation united by iron rails from coast to
                    coast, began to look for the best route for such a railway. In December, 1853, the Gadsen purchase
                    was made, and the stage seemed set for Congress to authorize the shorter southern route from 
                        New Orleans
                     to San Diego. However, a month later, in January, 1854, not only the play, but also the
                    stage and scenery were junked, as Senator Stephen A. Douglas of 
                        Illinois
                     introduced his bill to organize the Territory of 
                        Nebraska
                    . Out of this bill there came the 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act. From that
                    act came violence, bloodshed, and "Bleeding 
                        Kansas
                    " where no law and order prevailed, fanatics were given a crusade, radicals
                    were engendered from conservatives, and new political parties with new leaders were created.
            Eighteen hundred fifty-four was an eventful year! The 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act was
                    passed, land offices were opened in 
                        Kansas
                    , and the fight for control of that territory was on. The negro, Anthony Burns, caused a
                    riot in 
                        Boston
                    . Two new political parties, the Republicans and the "Know Nothing," caught and
                    held the attention of politicians and people.  In the meantime,
                    the Whig- party ceased to exist and the Democrat party began to disintegrate.
            The Whig party-conceived in opposition to Andrew Jackson, born with more fathers than it could
                    recognize and existing in spite of them, compromising whenever possible, and even allowing soldiers
                    in the house to sit at the head of the table instead of the old fathers-finally was brought to an
                    early grave, choked to death, it has been said, attempting to swallow the 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act. Taking little time to mourn, its followers looked about for a
                    new party. A few joined the Democrats, others united with the Free Soilers, some found their way
                    into the new Republican party, but a larger number were absorbed into the more popular "Know
                    Nothing" party.
            This party owed its genesis to a secret society, the Order of the Star Spangled Banner, founded on
                    native American principles and especially pledged to an opposition to Roman Catholics, Irish
                    immigrants, and German radicals. As a secret society, it lured thousands into its ranks and obtained
                    its name from the answer of members to all questions about the order: "I know
                    nothing." Practical politicians recognized its value, old Whig leaders were soon high in
                    its councils, and by May, 1854, the party in a half dozen states astonished the nation by electing
                    unknown candidates. Its greatest victory was obtained in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where it swept the state elections.
            The next year the party was important enough to call a national convention, which met in June at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . There the Southerners gained control of the American party, as it was then called, and
                    pro-slavery resolutions were adopted. This split the party, so its destruction was swift and
                    certain. The Council of Indiana and other states separated from the national order and denounced
                    slavery and secrecy. Members soon made haste to publish their withdrawal from the party. Although it
                    finally nominated a presidential candidate for the elections of 1856, only one state, 
                        Maryland
                    , supported the nominee, ex-President Millard Fillmore. It had failed, as had the other
                    fusion parties, to organize a national party. The field was left to the Republicans, and the men of
                    these various parties found in that party the answer to their demands.
            Orth was an anti-slavery Whig, who realized the impotence of the Whig party, and was eager to have it
                    fuse  with other parties opposed to the 
                  Kansas-Nebraska
                Act. THen, as the Know Nothing movement gained momentum, he was one
                    of those who joined its ranks, and soon rose to the high position of president of the Council in
                    Indiana for 1854-1855. After its downfall he joined the Peoples party and then helped organize the
                    Republican party in Indiana.
            His letters are filled with references to the order. In a letter dated February 5, 1855, he remarked
                    that the Whig party could not then be revitalized. As may be seen there are very noticeable gaps in
                    these letters to Colfax-one from 1849 to 1854, and one from 1855 to 1860. It is difficult to believe
                    that Orth discontinued his correspondence with Colfax during these times, especially during the
                    latter period, when both were engaged in the very interesting task of organizing the Republican
                    party in Indiana. It is possible that not all the Orth letters to Colfax are with the Orth
                    Collection at the Indiana State Library, but some still may be with Colfax collections in other
                    depositories. A third group of Orth letters will be published in a subsequent issue. See the
                    December, 1942, issue of this publication for the first group of Orth letters.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Office In La 
                                    Fayette
                                  Ins. Co.
                           
                                    January 28th 1851.
                                
                        Friends Pratt & Usher,
                        I have just learned that both our Members from this County are prevented on account
                                    of sickness from attending to their duties in your House.
                        The La 
                                        Fayette
                                     Ins. Co. has a bill pending before you asking for an increase of their
                                    Capital to $300,000, and as we are at present unrepresented you will
                                    confer a favor on me by attending to its passage in the shape as introduced by Mr.
                                        Patterson.1
                        
                        We are very anxious to have this increase of Capital in order to meet the demands of
                                    our rapidly extending business. Since the 1st of May last I have personally
                                    established agencies in the State of 
                                        Michigan
                                    , the City & State of 
                                        New York
                                     all the New 
                                        England
                                     States, and in the five British provinces of North America. From the
                                    enclosed "annual Circular" you will see that our Company in point of responsibility
                                    is second to none in the Union and our desire is to establish an Institution that
                                    will be a credit to our State as well as profitable to the Stockholders.
                        But we need a larger capital and we trust there may be no impediment 
                              
                                 1 Alexander L. Patterson, at this time a member of the
                                            state House of Representatives from 
                                                Tippecanoe County
                                            , introduced on January 20, 1851, House Bill No. 168, which
                                            authorized the 
                                                Lafayette
                                             Insurance Company to increase its capital stock. See Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana,
                                            1850-1851, p. 248.
                           
                                     thrown in our way as there can be no substantial
                                    reason why we should not have this increase.
                        You may use this letter & the facts therein stated in such a way as you may
                                    deem advisable to accomplish the object our Company has in view….
                        P.S. You will see by reference to the original Charter that our stockholders are
                                    individually liable for all the debts & obligations of the Company, and I
                                    can safely say that our stockholders in point of wealth & integrity compare
                                    favorably with the best Citizens of the State.
                        [Orth to Pratt, June 2, 1851. Partnership business.]
                        [Orth to Pratt, August 27, 1851. Same; concerning a bill.]
                        [Orth to Pratt, November 21, 1851. Same.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    July 4-1854-
                                
                        Friend Colfax-
                        If the weather were not so excessively hot I would write you a long letter. The signs
                                    of the times are propitious and augur well for the Friends of Freedom &
                                    Temperance.
                        As you will doubtless attend the Gathering of the People at Inds on the 13th inst. my
                                    object in writing is to request you to bring Mrs Colfax with you this far and let
                                    her rusticate at "Oak-Dale" with Mrs O, while you and I go to the Convention2- Be here if possible by the 11th or even a day sooner, and we
                                    will go next day to be on hand in time.
                        
                           The Whigs must control that convention-without SEEMING to do so….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Augt 19-1854-
                                
                        Friend Colfax:-
                        I was glad to learn thro, our mutual friend George, that Mrs C. contemplates a visit
                                    to La 
                                        Fayette
                                     and would spend some time at our house. I need not assure that Mrs O
                                    & myself will be very happy to have her come and make OakDale her home until
                                    after the Campaign, when her liege lord will be relieved from the toils of the
                                    contest, and return crowned with the laurels of Victory!3
                        
                        An hour ago however I met Dr. Derning who says he wrote you yesterday that it would
                                    not be advisable for Mrs C. to visit La 
                                        Fayette
                                     at present on account of the Cholera &c. When I told the Dr.
                                    that the calculation was for Mrs C. to spend most, if not all, of her time! with us
                                    in the Country, he said "Write Brother Colfax and say to him, in my opinion it would
                                    be perfectly safe for his Lady to come & stay at OakDale." My
                                    object therefore in writing now, is to add the last opinion of the Dr. and to say
                                    that we trust Mrs C. will not fail to come as contemplated….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sep 25/54.
                                
                        Friend Colfax-
                        Our Central Com: will send you an invitation to 
                                        Oxford
                                     to address our Citizens on next tuesday night- I have written to Parker
                                        
                              
                                 2 Orth married Mary A. Ayers of 
                                                Lafayette
                                             on August 28, 1850; his first wife died in 1849.
                              
                                 3 Colfax was running for Congress, and was elected as
                                            a representative to the Thirty-Fourth Congress, 1855-1857.
                           
                                     to make no appointment for you on that day- Mrs
                                    C. has gone to Inds. but will return to OakDale on Saturday.
                        I leave in the morning (in company with Dr. McFarland) and shall do what we can to
                                    aid the good cause in the Counties of Porter, LaPorte, St. Joe, 
                                        Elkhart
                                    , Marshall, 
                                        Fulton
                                     & Cass-
                        I will send my carriage to 
                                        Oxford
                                     for you, on Monday-& perhaps Mrs C & Mrs 0. will go
                                    along to escort you to OakDale. I regret I shall not be at home during your
                                    visit-but you must make yourself at home-
                        I was on the eve of making arrangements to visit Slaughter's District, when
                                    I reed, the invitation to go North. Slaughter needs help and I have succeeded in
                                    getting H. S. Ellsworth4 to go down this week.
                        The work goes bravely on-and a glorious victory awaits the friends of Freedom
                                    Temperance and our Native Land5…. P.S. You must not
                                    fail to attend on Tuesday as the notices will be given today-
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Oct 14, 1854-
                                
                        Dear Colfax-
                        Having doubtless ere this received the congratulations of your immediate neighbors
                                    & friends upon the glorious result of last Tuesday it is now proper to
                                    receive those of your friends at a distance, but who feel quite as lively an
                                    interest in that result.6
                        
                        The verdict of the people in the states of Inda, 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Penna. is not easily misunderstood.7 It
                                    shows a deep seated feeling in favor of Human Freedom that demagogues cannot
                                    quench-and it shows also a fine determination that hereafter none but Americans in
                                    principle as well as by birth, shall rule America-
                        It now behooves those who are clothed with authority, to exercise it with such
                                    prudence & moderation as not to impair the confidence which the people have
                                    so generously re[a]ssured- Let this be done and all will be well for a long
                                    & glorious future….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov 7/54
                                
                        Friend Colfax-
                        I have intended for the last few days to write to you but have been & still
                                    am very busily engaged- I sold my farm-moved to townand am reconstructing my Law
                                    business- I hope in a day or two to write you fully….
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  4 Could this have been Henry W. Ellsworth (1814-1864) who served as charge d'affaires to Sweden and Norway from 1845 to 1849 and who then resumed
                        the practice of law at 
                            Lafayette
                        ?
               
                  5 The anti-slavery men were not adverse to receiving support from the
                        temperance movement; the "native land" friends referred to the nativist movement.
               
                  6 Orth is referring to Colfax's election to Congress.
               
                  7 In the elections of 1854, Indiana, 
                            Ohio
                        , and 
                            Pennsylvania
                         were called October states, as they held the elections in that month. In Indiana
                        all the congressmen but two were Anti-Nebraskans. In 
                            Ohio
                         the Anti-Nebraskans sent a solid delegation to Congress. In 
                            Pennsylvania
                         the Whigs, Know-Nothings, and Free Soil Democrats elected a Whig governor, and sent
                        fifteen Anti-
                            Nebraska
                         Whigs, five AntiNebraska Democrats, and a Native American to Congress.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              OakDale-
                           
                                    Wed night-
                                
                        My dear Colfax:-
                        I received your letter of the 16th this afternoon and to a friend so candid as
                                    yourself I cannot speak save in the language of unreserved frankness- That my name
                                    should be associated with so exalted a position as that of U. S. S. is to me
                                    certainly a matter of sincere gratification, and I trust that (whether success or
                                    defeat be my lot) I shall ever retain a warm & lasting rememberance of the
                                    efforts of those, who are now enlisted in my behalf- Let this suffice.
                        Since the 13th July I have been frequently approached on the Senator question-by
                                    personal friends in several parts of the State, but thus far have studiously avoided
                                    a discussion of the matter except with one or two confidential friends- The election
                                    resulting as it has, I do not consider it improper to talk about it at least when
                                    spoken to-
                        In the first place, the Senate from present appearances will be a tie, if we count
                                    the hold-overs at 15 dem. & 10 Whig- But of the 15-I feel pretty well
                                    assured that Cutshaw8 of 
                                        Washington
                                     & perhaps Hooks9 of 
                                        Ripley
                                     will go with the People- This was understood to be their position
                                    during the Campaign-
                        But suppose it be a tie will they take the responsibility of a
                                    postponement? You may reply "they did so once before" True but the
                                    Legislature met annually and besides they had the excuse (lame one I grant it.) of
                                    having the popular vote on their side- But it's useless to conjecture- If
                                    they have the power and will exercise it-we shall, two years hence, beat them worse
                                    than now.
                        The next Legislature will have to elect a Senator-a State Printer-a State Agent–and may (if they see proper) erect a special Bank
                                    Department, and thus make a good office for some one-
                        I agree with you as to the fusion-and if we have those four officers to elect (and
                                    the Speaker) makes 5.) it will be well (if necessary.) to give the Anti N.
                                    [Nebraskan] Democrats 2, the Freesoilers one or two & the Whigs one or two-
                                        Riley10 I regret to say is defeated by that mass of moral
                                    putridity Walpole-or he would do well for Speaker. Sol: Meredith11 will want the place-and if he does we must use him.
                                    Parker is the only man I have to fear-(at least so I think now.) Marshall is not
                                    formidable & Dick Thorn[p]son- is rather too much of a National Whig to have
                                    strength among Fusionists. If Sol's heart is on the Speakership his
                                    election will hurt Parker, besides Sol's influence could be had for Senator
                                    in exchange 
                              
                                 8 Townsend Cutshaw was a member of the state Senate
                                            from 
                                                WashingtonCounty
                                            , 1853-1856. See Journal of the Senate of
                                            Indiana, 1853-1854, p. 4; ibid., 1855-1856, p. 4.
                              
                                 9 This was probably Luther Shook of 
                                                Ripley County
                                             who served in the state Senate, 1853-1856.
                              
                                 10 Reuben Riley, of 
                                                Hancock
                                             County, the father of James W. Riley, served in the Indiana
                                            House of Representatives from 1845 to 1846. Thomas D. Walpole was the
                                            representative from 
                                                Hancock
                                             County, 1855-1856.
                              
                                 11 Solomon Meredith was a member of the state House of
                                            Representatives from 
                                                Wayne County
                                             at this time. He was long a prominent figure in that county.
                                            See 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Sentinel, October 22, 1875.
                           
                                     for Speaker votes- I may be wrong in this
                                    conjecture-but think of it- Test,12 if he remembers old scores,
                                    ought to be for me-we are personally quite friendly-and unless he can make something
                                    by going against me he will not do it. I believe I can safely rely on Stanton (the
                                    other Rep from 
                                        Wayne
                                    .) especially if Julian13 has no showand as to the
                                    Senator Burke14-he & I are very friendly and I dont see
                                    how he could possibly be found against me.
                        In reference to this White Water region I shall sound Holloway tomorrow-and if he is
                                    (as he ought to be.) for me-I shall make large inroads on Parker- The delegation
                                    from Jefferson (so soon as Marshall is out of the way) will be for me. Clark
                                    & Floyd delegation will be secured by Patterson and Thomasson15 for me.
                        In the center of the State I cannot safely calculate on anything as yet-but I think I
                                    have secured Geo. Dunn's influence- Parker & Suit will be for me-
                                    Dr. Thomas16 of 
                                        Monticello
                                     is warmly so-and of course our 2 Reps &amp; Senators.
                        Bearss17 is elected and is warmly enlisted in my behalf-Is in
                                    fact the first person who broached the matter to me.
                        Sam Brenton18 has been written to, by our 2 Methodist Clergymen
                                    & several of the laity-and urged to have his district right, and if Bishop
                                    Ames takes any part in the matter it will be for me-at least so he assured Mrs.
                                    O&apos;s father-who is Anti N. [Nebraskan] Demo &amp; Methodist.
                        I think I can calculate on Harris19 of 
                                        Elkhart
                                    -and if Howe is elected in LaGrange, a line from you will be sufficient
                                    to fix him-
                        You were right when you say no time should be lost-and so soon as I have a complete
                                    list of the members I can write you more definitely.
                        What you say of Temperance shall be strictly observed-and in doing
                                    so I but live up to my own convictions of right- The social 
                              
                                 12 Charles H. Test and Thomas Stanton, both of 
                                                Wayne County
                                            , served as members of the Indiana House of Representatives in
                                            1855.
                              
                                 13 George W. Julian (1817-1899) served in the state
                                            House of Representatives in 1845 from 
                                                Wayne County
                                            . He was a prominent member of the Free Soil party until 1856,
                                            when he was a delegate to the Republican National Convention and chairman of
                                            the committee on organization.
                              
                                 14 Lewis Burke, of 
                                                Wayne County
                                            , served in the Indiana Senate, 1841-1844, 1855-1858.
                              
                                 15 William P. Thomasson represented 
                                                Harrison County
                                             in the state House of Representatives from 1818 to 1820.
                              
                                 16 James H. Thomas, of White County, served in the
                                            Indiana House of Representatives in the session of 1855.
                              
                                 17 Daniel R. Bearss, representing 
                                                Wabash
                                             and Miami counties, was a Whig member of the state Senate in
                                            1855.
                              
                                 18 Samuel Brenton of Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             had also been elected to the Thirty-Fourth Congress.
                              
                                 19 Thomas G. Harris was a member of the state Senate
                                            from 1853 to 1855 and represented 
                                                Elkhart
                                             and La Grange counties. John B. Howe represented La Grange,
                                            Noble, 
                                                Steuben
                                            , and De Kalb counties in the state House of Representatives,
                                            1840-1841.
                           
                                     glass-with me for many years-yea for life-has
                                    been like Angels' visits.
                        As to the order20-I have made arrangements since the election,
                                    for our Secy-to visit as many Counties as possible (as especially those not fully
                                    organized.) and push on the work with as much energy as possible- Now is the time to
                                    enlist many-who were pledged to old party associations and could not go with us- Our
                                    G. C.21 meets in Nov-I will be present and shall do what I can
                                    to carry out your suggestions. They meet my hearty approval….
                        [In the margin appears this endorsement: G. L. Orth, 
                                        Lafayette
                                     la., Oct 20th,/54.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Friday night-Nov 10/54.
                                
                        My dear Colfax:-
                        I owe you an apology for'my long silence- I give it to you and of its sufficiency you
                                    must be the judge. I sold my farm recently- and had to make all the arrangements for
                                    disposing of my stock &amp;c- moving to town-attending
                                    Convention-reconstructing my Law Firm & settling a seven years
                                    partnership-and this evening returned from a business trip to 
                                        Oxford
                                    -wet, cold, and fatigued- On Tuesday morning I leave with Mrs 18 [Orth]
                                    for Cinti.22 whither I wish you, to write me fully, directing
                                    your letter to the care of the "Woodruff House.&quot; Of course all these
                                    personal professional matters have prevented me from bestowing much time to
                                    politics- At 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     nothing very definite was said or done, everything being in rather a
                                    chaotic state. I found that 23-1-9-22-21-9 [Parker] is not as strong as was
                                    anticipated&#x2013; 10-1-20-13-21 [
                                        Wayne County
                                    ] is not for him because 8-21-9-21-16-12-19-7 [Meredith] is in the field
                                    and will get that delegation-though, being elected to the Legislature our State
                                    Constitution disqualifies him. Whether the members will disregard it and elect him
                                    remains to be seen-I could not hear of any other County being for him. 7-21-13-9-20
                                    [Henry] County will go first for 21-3-3-12-18-19 [Elliott]23-
                                    and after him I am assured by my old friend 8-24-9-23-7-20 [Murphy]-their delegation
                                    will go for me- At least he says I have many friends there who will interest
                                    themselves in bringing about such a result. 19-21-16-19 [Test] says that he is
                                    warmly disposed toward me, and told me, that his County man, being out of the way,
                                    he will be for me- He ought to be, in consideration of old chores- He took special
                                    pains to introduce me to the members in the adjoining counties with whom I was not
                                    acquainted 8-1-9-14-7-1-3-3. [Marshall] has some friends and in a quarter too, not
                                    anticipated by me. For instance 7-18-10-1-9-16 [Howard] County-with whose
                                    representative you are acquainted and to 
                              
                                 20 This probably refers to the Know Nothing Society.
                              
                                 21 G.C. probably stands for Grand Council.
                              
                                 22 Professor John D. Barnhart worked out
                                            Orth&apos;s code. Orth may have slipped in writing down the
                                            numerals; for instance, in the word 19-21-16-19 he probably intended 14 for
                                            16, which would make it Test and not Tedt.
                              
                                 23 Jehu T. Elliott, from 
                                                Henry County
                                            , was a member of the Indiana Senate from 1839 to 1842. Eli
                                            Murphey, also of 
                                                Henry County
                                            , served in the Senate from 1845 to 1848.
                           
                                     whom a letter from you would be of service. He
                                    is a candidate for Speaker-this fact may be of service to you.
                        But M is not strong-he was not at Inds. and his health is represented as being quite
                                    delicate-19-7-10-8-23-14-18-13&apos;s [Thompson] name was not mentioned tho'
                                    his County was not strongly represented there- The member from Sullivan will vote
                                    with us, as his pledge had a "proviso" to it.- The Whig from 
                                        Clay
                                     who was elected by the old Lines is unpledged to them &amp; the
                                    probability is will go with us.
                        A friend told me that 16-21-26-9-21-21-14 [Defrees] preferred
                                    M……., first-and in the event of his health being too delicate,
                                    he would use his influence for me. This, to me, is very unexpected-as I supposed I
                                    should be his 4th. choice at least. Do you know anything of his
                                    position&#x003F;
                        I did not approach 6-1-9-9-20 [Barry] as he is not at all reliable. We are personally
                                    very friendly-and I am satisfied he will do nothing against me. A [man] stronger
                                    than he, is working warmly zealously and effectively for me. I refer to
                                    11-9-1-10-26-18-9-16 [Crawford].24 He is visiting several
                                    counties officially, and will continue to do so until the meeting
                                    of the Legislature. He writes to me very encouragingly and from portions of the
                                    state too where I had but little to hope for.
                        3-1-13-21 [Lane] is also in the field, but I should think with little prospect of
                                    success- His Congressional record shows darkly against him in
                                    these Anti-Slavery times- He made nothing at the Convention, although extremely
                                    active. The truth is, the opposition are doing all in their power to increase the
                                    number of Candidates by promises which they never mean to perform, thereby hoping to
                                    create dissension and accomplish a victory.
                        They have not approached me, nor will they, for while at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Col. 8-1-20 [May] confidentially informed an especial (Democratic.)
                                    friend of mine, that my defeat was determined upon by the old Liners and that they
                                    would spare no means to accomplish their object. They regarded me as the Prince of
                                    Ruin, who had done too much mischief to meet with any lenity. In this, they honor me
                                    overmuch! but I was confirmed in the belief that such is their intention, by a
                                    remark made at 
                                        Oxford
                                     last night by a prominent Old Liner to a friend of mine. He said their
                                    mottoe was "Anybody but, 18-9-19-7 [Orth].
                        An hour or two since I received a letter from 19-7-18-8-1-14, [Thomas] representative
                                    from 10-7-12-19-21 [White] County-saying that after taking a pledge of secresy which
                                    was exacted, he was informed that if he would consent to vote for an old-liner he
                                    could have 
                              
                                 24 There are three Crawfords to whom Orth might
                                            possibly be referring: George H. served in the state House of
                                            Representatives, 1832-1833, from Allen, 
                                                Elkhart
                                            , La Grange, 
                                                La Porte
                                            , and 
                                                St. Joseph counties
                                             and represented 
                                                La Porte
                                             County again in 1857; he was also a member of the Indiana
                                            Senate from 1836 to 1839 from De Kalb, 
                                                Elkhart
                                            , La Grange, Noble, and 
                                                Steuben counties
                                            . Robert H. Crawford, of 
                                                Decatur County
                                            , was a member of the state House of Representatives, 1850-1851,
                                            and of the state Senate, 1851-1852. Thomas Crawford was a state
                                            representative for 
                                                Jefferson County
                                            , 1820-1821.
                           
                                     &#x0024;500-that as he was a Democrat
                                    and represented a Democratic district he could do so with safety and sustain
                                    himself- This "Satan" further informed him-that the old-lines only needed 3 more to
                                    accomplish their object.
                        Our friend doubtless gives this an importance which it does not merit, but he is
                                    evidently alarmed and desires my advice &amp; assistance in fixing the
                                    bribery beyond escape- He has taken a week for reflection before giving his answer
                                    to the tempter and in the meantime I shall send a prudent friend to see him-and act
                                    in concert, if necessary, to accomplish his object-
                        I will now give you a piece of news that will doubtless surprise you-
                        Your friend 8-21-9-9-12-26-12-21-3-16. [Merrifield]25 has written
                                    a confidential letter to 6-18-20-16 [Boyd] Methodist Clergyman of
                                    this place-stating that he desired his advice for whom he should vote as between 7.
                                    10. 21-3-3-14-10-18-9-19-7. [H. W. Ellsworth] and myself!!
                        The answer he received was pungent- He was told explicitly what 6-18-20-16. [Boyd]
                                    thought M&apos;s duty to be under the circumstances, and expressed surprise
                                    that he should desire any advise on the subject-and further that if he had 20 votes
                                    they should all be given for me.
                        The difficulty in our county has all subsided or rather there never was any
                                    thereabout or apprehended-and 11-3-1-9-22 [Clark]26 will be
                                    permitted to take his seat-
                        I think letters from you to 6-9-21-13-19-18-13 [Brenton] and Judge 23-21-19-19-12-19
                                        [Pettit]27 would be of service to the cause, and also to
                                    16-24-13-13 [Dunn] of 11-1-14-14 [Cass]- but of this you can best judge….
                        P.S. If you have not received my key this letter will be rather hard to manage.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Inds.
                           
                                    Dec 1, 1854-
                                
                        Friend Colfax:-
                        You see I have commenced writing you a letter, but it is a matter of much doubt
                                    whether I shall give you any interesting news. The "politicians" who are, and have
                                    for the last ten days, been congregating around the Capitol, can form no reliable
                                    opinion as to the action of the future- Each one is doubtless intent upon some
                                    bargain, intrigue or accident which may in some way or other ensue to his own, or
                                    the benefit of some friend. Suffice it to say all is chaos and confusion-and the
                                    opinions and plans of yesterday yield as rapidly to those of today-and they made
                                    those of the preceeding day yield to them.
                        Candidates for all the offices are multiplying, including those for Senator.
                        Marshal[l] is gaining ground (or rather he was up to 2 or 3 days 
                              
                                 25 George C. Merrifield, of 
                                                St. Joseph County
                                            , served in the Indiana House of Representatives, 1855-1858.
                              
                                 26 Thomas H. Clark represented 
                                                Tippecanoe County
                                             in the state House of Representatives in 1855.
                              
                                 27 John Pettit (1817-1877) was a member of the state
                                            House of Representatives, 1838-1839, from 
                                                Tippecanoe County
                                            .
                           
                                     ago.) and at the expense, thus far, of Parker,
                                    Meredith &amp; Smith (Tom.)28 The old line Whigs (Silver
                                        Greys)29 will be clamorous for him-but his location
                                    &amp; bad health are a heavy drawback, and it strikes me that their effort
                                    will have the effect of driving the A. N. Dems against him-
                        Thompson is here, and it is understood is not a candidate, tho doubtless awaiting the
                                    chapter of accidents. Of one thing I am most throughly convinced-if the election is
                                    not brought on within the first ten days of the Session, we shall have inextricable
                                    confusion and trouble-with what result God only Knows- If we split-this
                                        will be the rock.
                        
                        I have thus far learned nothing to show that any one whom we might claim is in the
                                    least disaffected.
                        Judge Biddle is here, and has volunteered to come down in January
                                    and give me his assistance. He thinks Dunn is for Marshall! This is quite probable-
                        Blythe &amp; Baker30 of 
                                        Evansville
                                     both voluntary offered their assistance-and would at any time do all in
                                    their power for me-Their Rept. will be for me-They think Judge Hall31 will not present his name-They will both be on hand in January.
                        By the way when do you expect to come down and where will you locate during your stay&#x003F; If at the Bates House I can procure a
                                    room for you in advance&#x003F; For Hotel room is going to be very scarce
                                    this Winter.
                        Brenton wrote a letter to my wife&apos;s father in which he says that the 9
                                    A. N. Dems. &amp; Rept. from his Dist. will go for me to a man.
                        Dr. Marsh32 (who is personally friendly) says that it is probable
                                    Smith of La-Grange will go for Julian.
                        I spoke to the boys here on Wednesday night-but think I cannot go to New 
                                        Albany
                                    -for the reason that I am engaged in the trial of U.S. vs Waterhouse,
                                    who is indicted for harboring &amp;c under the Fugitive Slave law. Thompson is employed to assist the prosecution!
                        
                        Tom Dowling is a Candidate and relies upon the Old Lines & National Whigs to elect him-He counts upon the Whigs in 
                                        Clay
                                     & Sullivan &amp; slightly upon Dunn of Cass-One thing
                                    is certain if mischief can be done Tom is ready to do it-
                        I am in a great "quandary" as they say-and I need your advice. 
                              
                                 28 Thomas Smith (1799-1876), from 
                                                Ripley County
                                            , served in the Indiana House of Representatives, 1833-1836, and
                                            in the state Senate, 1836-1839.
                              
                                 29 Silver Greys were followers of Millard Fillmore.
                              
                                 30 James E. Blythe of 
                                                Vanderburgh County
                                             was a member of the state House of Representatives, 1847-1848.
                                            John Harris Baker (1832-1915), a member of the state Senate in 1862, turned
                                            later to national politics and was active in the Republican party.
                              
                                 31 Samuel Hall, from 
                                                Gibson County
                                            , judge of the fourth circuit from 1832 to 1835, served in the
                                            House of Representatives, 1829-1831 and 1845-1846, and was a member of the
                                            Constitutional Convention of 1850.
                              
                                 32 Dr. 
                                                Madison
                                             Marsh was a Democrat of 
                                                De Kalb County
                                            .
                           
                                     You Know the position I hold among the friends.
                           33 At the last meeting of our S. C. in
                                    Sept. it was resolved that I should call a special meeting in January, if I deemed
                                    it conducive to the best interest of the order. Now the question is what shall I
                                    do&#x003F;-and I must confess this gives me some trouble- If I call the
                                    meeting it will be attributed to improper and personal motives and if I dont, the
                                    same imputation will be made- My personal opinion is, that the S. C. even when
                                    convened should not take positive action on the Senator question tho they have the
                                    undoubted power, for fear of the charge of outside dictation -while others insist it
                                    is their duty to take this action, and they would be derelict if they did not. Of
                                    the result of that action, there can hardly be a doubt, but of its effect on the
                                    members, (and especially when magnified by adversaries) that is
                                    another question. Advantage will be taken of my official position,
                                    and used to my prejudice-whether I act one way or another or whether I act at all-
                                    God Knows that I would rather this moment withdraw my name forever than have any
                                    personal friend suppose that I had used my position in any way for my mere personal
                                    advancement-
                        In the language of the resolution of the last S. C. I "deem it necessary for the good
                                    of the order" that such meeting shall take place-and for several reasons. 1st. The
                                    new work will be ready for distribution. 2nd. A more through organization of the
                                    State must be had. 3rd. The proceedings of the N. C. [National
                                    Council&#x003F;] must be communicated. 4th. Delegates to the next N. C. must
                                    be selected-none of which objects can be accomplished without a meeting.
                        Now then shall I act as though no Legislature were to convene-and trust to an
                                    approving conscience and the honest impartiality of my friends for the
                                    justification-or shall I refuse to act, from the fear of a wrong construction being
                                    placed upon my motives- Think fully & answer freely-
                        Saturday morning-
                        I shall leave for home this evening. Since writing the above, new matters (hourly
                                    springing up &amp; I might add hourly changing &amp; vanishing) have
                                    arisen-of which I might write you from home….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 -
                           
                                    Feb 5/ 55-
                                
                        My dear Colfax-
                        I had intended writing to you long since-but really had nothing of importance to
                                    communicate- I returned from Inds on Saturday ev[en]ing &amp; will go back
                                    in a day or two- Matters there stand in about the same way as when you left-
                                    Marshall&apos;s friends claim they have enough to nominate him-yet they now
                                    appear to be unwilling to make any nomination before we know there is to be an
                                    election-In this they have changed their tactics and for what reason they of course
                                    know best-but still every one is at leave to draw his own inferences- My opinion is
                                    they have not the power to nominate &amp; can not get that power but I may
                                    be mistaken-
                        If all the Anti-Marshall can be concentrated on another, and 
                              
                                 33 Again, this is probably the Know Nothing party;
                                            Orth was president of the Indiana Know Nothing State Council, 1854-1855. S.
                                            C. probably means State Council.
                           
                                     if so whom is the question of the day-I see
                                    nothing to change the views we entertained when you were at the Capitol-
                        The free-soilers feel quite offish since the nominations for Agent &amp;
                                    Printer and something must be done to reconcile them-
                        But will there be an election&#x003F; This is a question that each man
                                    discusses &amp; decides for himself-changes his decision almost daily-I
                                    believe there will be an election-after the 22nd. I have this opinion merely upon
                                    the supposition that the Old Liners will not be guilty of so foolish &amp;
                                    fatal an act as to refuse- For this would, more than anything else to drive us
                                    together &amp; Keep us together for the next campaign-nor will the Prest.
                                    Election swallow up this dereliction of duty as they confidentially hope-
                        Col Taylor of 
                                        Chicago
                                     (formerly of W City.) came down with me -& said in a talk he
                                    had with M. G. Bright34 Sat morning B. took the bold position
                                    that there should be no election- This is evidently the wish of the leaders at the
                                    Capitol-but I think wiser counsels will prevail.
                        If their State Cont. [Convention or Caucus] on the 22nd should take positive action
                                    in favor of postponement, it may drive the luke- warm men of the Senate to stand to
                                    their party.
                        Will you be down on the 22nd&#x003F; There will be fun enough on hand to pay
                                    for the trip. Besides even if there should be no election, I want to see you in
                                    reference to the future action of ourselves & party- Will it not be
                                    necessary to organize an open Native American party in our State-as they are
                                    preparing to do in other States&#x003F; Or what shall be done in the future-
                                    The "fusion" party is necessarily of temporary duration and the Whig Party cannot be
                                    galvanized into existance again.
                        If I had time I should write you more fully on this subject and may do so on my
                                    return to the Capitol- Address me there at Bates House….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Inds.
                           
                                    Feb 14th 1855.
                                
                        Dear Colfax:-
                        The cauldron is still boiling-and the political witches are filling it with all sorts
                                    of clean &amp; unclean things, and what the final issue will be no one seems
                                    able to divine.
                        The old lines in the Senate have determined to take no action until after the meeting
                                    of their Convention on the 22nd and if party drill, heretofore so potent, will be
                                    able to retain its power they will in all probability indefinitely postpone- Some 4
                                    of their Senators are trembling in their shoes-and it will require an extra
                                    tightening of the screws-and strengthening of the cords to bind them to the
                                    observance of the behests of their leaders. Still they may succeed-They however
                                    anticipate trouble-and are feeling round with bold hands to see if Ml. [Marshall]
                                    and myself can be displaced to enable some more pliable man to fill the position.
                        If they had the assurance that a Natl. Whig-who didn't fuse, 
                              
                                 34 Michael G. Bright (1803-1881), though a Democrat in
                                            a Whig county, was chosen to represent 
                                                Jefferson County
                                             at the state House of Representatives, 1838-1839.
                           
                                     don't fuse, and who is anti-Sam,35 could command the necessary strength-they would, in my opinion, give
                                    him the old line vote-and elect him- Thus far they have been disappointed and I
                                    think will continue to be- They may take Mereh (but I much doubt it.)They are
                                    tampering with him strong this week-and as he is willing to lend them a listening
                                    ear and a believing spirit, he is of course keep filled to overflowing.
                        Our folks have a good deal of diversity of opinion among them as to the propriety of
                                    making a nomination at this time-some favoring-others disapproving- Last night they
                                    attempted to hold a caucus for that purpose but failed- They will attempt again
                                    tomorrow night -but will also fail I think.
                        I am decidedly opposed to the measure, regarding it as deliterious not only to the
                                    nominee but also to the Party-a mere trick of the enemy-and promising no good.
                        Ml. is here, look bad-feels disheartened and says he will go home this evening- His
                                    friends, tho still seemingly confident, have lost that ardor and enthusiasm which
                                    characterized their operations during the earlier part of the session- He has
                                    evidently lost ground and I should be much mistaken if he could now receive the
                                    nomination. Mh. is active as ever-and says he is gaining strength daily- His
                                    untiring energy is worth a good deal-and I am satisfied that he has more strength
                                    that he gets credit for- He professes to speak by authority of the Brights36
                                    &amp; says he is the only man to whose election they will consent and really
                                    he is making some folks believe this is as true as gospel-
                        Parker tho at 
                                        Washington
                                    , is very actively engaged in writing to the members, urging his claims
                                    with a good deal of importunity-His friends are not many, but they are very reliable
                                    and devoted-They will cling to him as long as there is any glimmer of hope-and if
                                    they leave him will in no event go to Marshall.
                        As for myself I see nothing to discourage, or to change matters from the position
                                    they occupied when you were here-and my friends profess to be encouraged.
                        To sum up the whole in a nutshell- The whole question, in all its phases, is about as
                                    uncertain as that other much mooted question of "Who struck Billy
                                    Patterson&#x003F;"
                        I have called a meeting of the S. C. for the 6th of March- There will be matters of
                                    importance for their action-whether their action will be important and beneficial is
                                    another thing- I am in favor of the formation of an open American Party-upon a
                                    platform of principles acceptable to our people in Indiana-with a central organ
                                        
                              
                                 35 Many people were lured into the ranks of the Know
                                            Nothing Society simply through curiosity and because of the fascination
                                            secret societies always hold for most of us. Many, then, joined "to see
                                            Sam,&quot; as a common expression went, that is, from curiosity to
                                            see what it was all about. Anti-Sam was anti-Know Nothing.
                              
                                 36 The Brights were powerful Democrat politicians, who
                                            practically ran the party down to the Civil War. Jesse D. Bright of 
                                                Madison
                                             and Graham N. Fitch of 
                                                Logansport
                                             were elected to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate, 1855-1857.
                           
                                     here devoted exclusively to our cause with open
                                    State &amp; County conventions-presenting open issues-and the order Kept as
                                    now, auxiliary to the Ant. Party-directing its public movements- What think you of
                                    the idea thus faintly Foreshadowed&#x003F; I want your candid opinion.
                                    Merrifield goes home in the morning- He is a good reliable friend-
                        I suppose of course you will be down here on the 22nd to watch the movements of the
                                    old lines &amp; see the policy they intend to pursue in
                                future….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Inds.
                           
                                    Feb 16, 1855.
                                
                        Dear Colfax-
                        Your letter is reed-Our folks had a caucus tonight &amp; just adjourned (10
                                    OCIock.) The object of the Marshall men was to force a nomination &amp;
                                    Meredith&apos;s men joined them. I alone stood out, assisted by
                                    Parker&apos;s friends- No nomination was made-considerable feeling-a
                                    resolution passed to nominate on Wednesday next. This action would augur
                                    favorably-but still it is best to Keep cool-for as the saw runs, there is no telling
                                    who will be Governor until after the election.
                        I do wish you could be here at that time-and I know you will if in your
                                    power….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apl 6, /55.
                                
                        Dear Colfax-
                        I have just finished reading the Register of yesterday and perceive that in
                                    consequence of "the entire absence of organization" and the Sunday meeting of the
                                    Dutch, you have been beaten in your township election. If "Sam,&quot; were
                                    Kept alive &amp; kicking this would not be, and I fear if he is not revived
                                    in your hearts you may have to chronicle similar victories throughout the glorious
                                    "9th District" hereafter, for by a letter received from 
                                        La Porte
                                     tonight I learn the existence of a similar state of affairs in their
                                    town. Here we meet twice a week, initiate from 5 to 10 each night (last Saturday
                                    19,) and we elected our ticket by more than 2 to 1, with a very heavy foreign vote
                                    against us.
                        
                           Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty! You may depend upon
                                    it-the enemy is secretly organizing all over the State-and unless we are up and
                                    doing we shall be shorn of our strength and the "Forum" will entwine "wreaths" over
                                    more important contests-
                        Bro. Crawford paid me a business visit last night-and I made him promise to pass thru
                                    Northern Indiana-which he promised to do in two or three weeks. I hope the breathen
                                    will give him a cordial welcome and relight the camp fires of the Revolution.
                        Did you receive my last letter&#x003F; It contained some things which the
                                    vulgar eye ought not to see….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 14/55
                                
                        Friend Colfax:-
                        Altho extremely busy, I shall take time to drop you a line-
                        I suppose you have learned of our meeting at Inds on Wednesday the 31st inst. I trust
                                    you will meet with us &amp; proceed in company with the rest of the
                                    delegates to the N.C. [National Convention]
                        I am waiting with much solicitude the reception of that promised letter in
                                    &amp; by &amp; through which it was to be made to appear  that you were, plainly, more
                                    AntiSlavery than I am. But I presume the "sober seconds thought" has prevailed
                                    &amp; you have concluded to postpone indefinitely the attempt to perform
                                    this Herculean task. I cheerfully release you from the performance of this rash
                                    &amp; indiscreet promise-in pursuance of the well Known rule of the Law-that
                                    no man shall be held to his promise if its execution is physically and morally
                                    impossible-
                        Hoping to hear from you soon on other matters….
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 23/55
                                
                        Friend Colfax-
                        I have been looking anxiously for your promised letter, detailing the proceedings
                                    &amp; inside feeling of the 
                                        Cleveland
                                     Cont. but have looked in vain. I have no doubt however, that like
                                    myself, you have had your hands full of other matters- I gave an account of our
                                    stewardship to our brethren here &amp; they unanimously approved of our
                                    course-I doubt not, such will be the feeling throughout the State, except the 1st
                                    &amp; 2nd Congl District. Here there will be trouble, Gregg37 has already pitched into you &amp; me, and refuses to "follow our
                                    lead.&quot; I had a long letter from Col. Sigler who is not well pleased-and
                                    other 'croakers' will doubtless make themselves heard in due time. The meeting for
                                    the 13th may be premature, but since it is called we must do all we can to secure a
                                    large attendance, and we must endeavor to have wise counsel prevail.
                        We must not lose sight of the fact, that while there is a strong Anti-Slavery feeling
                                    in the State, there is also a strong American feeling-and both must be preserved
                                    &amp; united if possible, else both go by the board-You will of course
                                    attend the S. C. on the 11th &amp; see that your neighboring Counties are
                                    represented.
                        We have a wily and implacable enemy, who matches every step we take and who will take
                                    advantage of the first error we commit. Let us then be circumspect, cautious
                                    &amp; liberal toward our breathen throughout the State and we can bind
                                    ourselves by cords so strong that the efforts of Old Liners will be utterly futile
                                    &amp; abortive hereafter-Let me hear from you fully-I should write more, but
                                    have other letters on hand….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Wednesday morning [1856]
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        I have only time to drop you a line.
                        The Republicans of 
                                        Jasper
                                     &amp; 
                                        Pulaski
                                     have a meeting at Francisville on Saturday.
                        They wish you &amp; myself to talk to them.
                        If you come down here on Friday evening & stop at my house
                                    we can go up by special train on Saturday morning and be back here in the
                                    evening….
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  37 James 
                            Madison
                         Gregg (1806-1869) was a member of the state House of Representatives in 1863 from 
                            Hendricks County
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON AMERICAN HISTORY
            The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times in its issue of April 4, 1943, startled the nation and particularly its
                    educational professions with a survey which was heralded as demonstrating much ignorance of 
                        United States
                     history by college freshmen. The survey was regarded as revealing a lack of information
                    in regard to basic facts and relationships and as indicating that something was decidedly wrong with
                    the teaching of 
                        United States
                     history in our secondary schools.
            In the discussion that followed, suggestions were made that sometimes high school history courses
                    were diluted with too much extraneous material, that social science courses had crowded history from
                    the curriculum, that teachers were poorly prepared, that prospective teachers were required to take
                    too many education courses and too few history courses, and that the licensing of teachers was
                    inadequately handled. Too many prominent university leaders voiced one or more of these opinions for
                    anyone to doubt that many intelligent persons have felt that certain developments in the educational
                    field during the present century represent experiments rather than progress, and that as a result,
                    the quality of the teaching of history has declined.
            Before this discussion had subsided, the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association, in its meeting at Cedar Rapids, 
                        Iowa
                    , on April 23, authorized its newly elected president, Dean Theodore C. Blegen of the
                    University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , to appoint a committee to investigate the teaching of American history. The Committee
                    was instructed to cooperate with the American Historical Association. Subsequently, representatives
                    of the National Council for the Social Studies and high school teachers were added to the Committee.
                    This Committee was given over eight thousand dollars to make the investigation. The report, which
                    was prepared between June and October, has now appeared in print.1 The Committee 
                  
                     1
                            American History in Schools and Colleges: The Report of the Committee on
                            American History in Schools and Colleges of The American Historical Association, The
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Association, The National Council for
                            the Social Studies. Edgar B. Wesley, Director of the Committee. (
                                New York
                            : The Macmillan Company, 1944, pp. xiv, 148. &#x0024;1.25.)
               
                     which made the report contained fourteen historians and
                    educators, of whom Edgar B. Wesley, Professor of Education at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , was the director.
            The report begins with a chapter devoted to the question, "Do Americans Know Their Own
                    History&#x003F;" The conclusion reached was that Americans do not know factual history but
                    that they do understand trends, appreciate past events, and see a connection between the experience
                    of the nation and that of the individual. The importance of a knowledge of American history is then
                    stated and a survey given of the extent of instruction in the classroom. The contribution of many
                    agents, such as the press, towards a knowledge of history is considered "significant,&quot;
                    but faulty. The relations between history and other social studies are described and recommendations
                    offered as to the content of history courses. Under the heading of "The Social Studies
                    Teacher,&quot; the problems of training, certification, and improvement of teachers are
                    discussed and a number of recommendations are offered. That the teaching of history should be kept
                    free of legislative restrictions is the burden of the ninth chapter. A brief summary chapter
                    concludes the report.
            As one would expect, the report is neither wholly good nor wholly bad. The recommendations enumerated
                    in the final chapter are such that they will doubtless commend themselves to many readers. Several
                    will be challenged and some may be rejected.
            A very acceptable chapter is the sixth, entitled "Recommended Content for American History
                    Courses.&quot; If one notices that the suggested dates are called "Representative Dates" and
                    the persons are "Representative Persons" and are not intended to be complete lists, the suggestions
                    should be acceptable even though many important dates and individuals are omitted. The chapter
                    attacks a serious problem and makes a serious effort to suggest a solution. It does not assume that
                    repetition of subject matter must be eliminated in the various courses in our school system but does
                    suggest that the content of history is now so inclusive that it is possible to vary the emphasis in
                    the courses taught in the different grades.
            The chapter on "American History in Colleges" is one which will probably also receive general
                    approval. It might be pointed out that many of the recommendations contain  ideas which are not much more advanced than many courses now being
                    taught in our colleges and universities and that it is much easier to recommend a synthesis of all
                    phases of American life in survey courses than it is to create such a synthesis. It might also be
                    stated that to increase the content of a course as far as has been suggested means that the total
                    course would represent a very thin treatment. When students come to college with poorer preparation
                    in history year after year, it is demanding considerable of college instructors and students that
                    all phases of history be taught adequately, interestingly, with class discussions and student
                    conferences, and that all this be crowded into a three-hour two-semester course. It will require
                    better instructors, better students, and nothing less than a miracle of organization. The Committee
                    did not offer an outline or syllabus of such a course. The recommendations are, however, generally
                    acceptable and deserving of support.
            On the other hand, the report gives evidence of unseemly haste, which may in part account for some of
                    its defects. Among these may be mentioned faulty and unscientific procedure. This is indicated by a
                    failure of the Committee to regard adequately some of the evidence produced by its own testing
                    program as well as other available evidence. The report indicates that high school boys having the
                    senior course in American history made a median grade of only 24 as compared with a median grade of
                    23 for boys not having the course. The median for girls was 22 and 20 out of a possible score of 65.
                    The senior high school history course, then, made a difference of only one or two points in the
                    median. The Committee commented: &quot;Some would be inclined to conclude from the
                    performance of high school students that their instruction is either meagre or
                    ineffective.&quot; On this the Committee seems to be correct, but in the next sentence it
                    contradicts the above by continuing: &quot;Such a conclusion is not justified by any
                    evidence in this chapter or by the accumulation of similar evidence about other subjects [pp.
                    11-12].&quot; Isn't this a failure to face the facts&#x003F; Shouldn't good high
                    school teaching increase the knowledge of American history more than the one or two points indicated
                    by these findings&#x003F; Did the Committee not have faith in its own test&#x003F;
                    Perhaps question 18 destroyed a little of that faith. The picture of the house which the student was
                    expected to state  as typical of American houses in one of four
                    periods was not typical of any.
            Another evidence of imperfect procedure occurred when the Committee went to the laws of the states,
                    the directives of the state boards of education, and lists of courses taught in forty-nine cities to
                    find out what history courses are being taught. It seemed to realize that there was a question of
                    interpretation of these laws and directives and that the actual performance in many schools may be
                    very different from that contemplated by the lawmakers and state boards. The press had already
                    called attention to this situation in two states. Apparently, however,' the Committee made little or
                    no effort to find out how courses are actually taught, or to what extent social studies courses are
                    being substituted for history. A few years after World War I, a bright young lady in West 
                        Virginia
                     described before a meeting of teachers a new method for teaching a course in modern
                    European history. She started with the peace treaty and from there on any resemblance to
                    chronological procedure was purely coincidental, but the course was called history.
            The Committee also failed to distinguish between history teachers and social studies teachers. The
                    terms "social studies teacher" and "history teacher" are used as though they were synonymous in
                    chapter eight. This is "muddy thinking" or no thinking at all. The investigation was to concern
                    American history and not social studies. It is quite possible that in actual practice the history
                    teacher is the social studies teacher, or the social studies teacher gives the history courses; but
                    if the investigation was to concern inadequate teaching of history, that subject should have been
                    differentiated from other factors so far as possible. The failure to make this distinction may be a
                    fundamental reason for the inadequacy of history teaching. It is surprising that a committee which
                    contained a number of distinguished historians should have made this error. Indeed, it may justify a
                    question as to the part played by the historians in the preparation of the report. It tends to prove
                    the lack of wisdom in bringing the educators and the Council of the Social Studies into the
                    investigation. The recommendations for improving the teachers are for social studies teachers, not
                    history teachers. It is very easy to see that the requirements for teaching civics, sociology, or
                    economics may be very different from the teaching  of history,
                    but the Committee showed no realization of this fact. Indeed, the difficulty of trying to be well
                    informed in many subjects may be an important reason why a teacher is poorly prepared to teach
                    history.
            There is also a failure to distinguish between history and tradition or between facts and myths in
                    the fourth chapter, entitled "History Beyond the Classroom.&quot; The author of this chapter
                    indicates that historical information, sometimes accurate and sometimes not, may be gained from the
                    press, novels, motion pictures, plays, radio programs, libraries, historical societies and museums,
                    monuments, pageants, speeches, family and community traditions, and place names. Caution is
                    suggested and some of the problems connected with these agencies are briefly stated. But are works
                    of history ever read by anyone after leaving the classroom &#x003F; Why do publishers
                    publish the works of Albert J. Beveridge or Claude G; Bowers &#x003F; Wouldn't the chapter
                    have been more satisfactory if more emphasis had been placed upon the reading of substantial history
                    and less upon newspapers, novels, motion pictures, and the radio &#x003F; No wonder the
                    Committee&apos;s test indicated that a large percentage thought that Thomas Jefferson helped
                    to frame the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . A radio commentator had said so.
            More disappointing than the shortcomings already noticed was the failure of the Committee to
                    investigate and treat certain situations in our educational system which have developed in the
                    present century. First of these is the training of prospective teachers in our schools of education.
                    Some improvement has been noticed in recent years in respect to emphasis upon content courses in
                    contrast to theory courses. How adequate has this improvement been&#x003F; How much more
                    could be achieved had the Committee executed its task less swiftly and with greater thought and
                    courage&#x003F;
            The Committee has recognized that the standards of certifying teachers are "none too
                    successful.&quot; It did not, however, illustrate the reasons for this lack of success or
                    the extent of inadequate conditions. It seemed to be afraid to step on the toes of educationalists.
                    Its recommendations are general and probably not far in advance of conditions that have been
                    described as "none too successful.&quot; Why did it not try to work out some plan whereby
                    professors of content courses could participate in the process of certification and  thus assist in making less frequent the assignment of unprepared
                    persons to teach history&#x003F;
            A third failure to take advantage of the present situation is due to the Committee&apos;s not
                    investigating the substitution of social science courses for history in colleges and secondary and
                    elementary schools. Its assumption that laws, directives, and lists of courses, as previously noted,
                    could be depended upon to give an adequate picture of actual conditions prevented the treatment of
                    this important topic. Social sciences are perfectly legitimate, and they may be superior to history
                    courses; but their introduction into the curriculum and particularly their replacing history courses
                    are very likely to be a cause of the inadequate knowledge of history. The Committee seems not to
                    have faced this possibility.
            These three failures are so serious as to make the actual contributions of the report appear very
                    inadequate. Every educator knows of the discussion concerning the neglect of content courses and the
                    multiplication of educational theory courses, about the need for participation of content teachers
                    in the certification of teachers, and the activities of the "progressive school" of educators in
                    substituting social science methods and courses for history. Why did the Committee not treat these
                    fundamentals&#x003F; Some historians need to be told about improvements that have been made.
                    Some educators need to be told that more improvements are needed. The Committee certainly did not
                    take advantage of its opportunity.
            One can only hope that the better portions of the report will be influential, that the poorer parts
                    will be forgotten, and that some way may be found to make a thorough investigation of the questions
                    which the Committee failed to treat or treated so inadequately.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               William Preston Johnston: A Transitional Figure of the Confederacy. By Arthur M.
                    Shaw. (
                  Baton Rouge: Louisiana
                State University Press, 1943, pp. xv, 299.
                    &#x0024;3.00.)
            Because of William Preston Johnston&apos;s connections and contacts with great men of the
                    South and because of his versatile nature and varied achievements in his own right, the author makes
                    a good case for the worth-whileness of a  biography of this
                    southerner. This is the first serious biographical study of Johnston published.
            William Preston Johnson was "the son of Albert Sidney Johnston, a Confederate general killed at the
                    battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    . His mother, Henrietta Preston Johnston, likewise came from a prominent family. Born in
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , in 1831, Johnston continued to live in his native state
                    until the Civil War. After he was four years of age, at which time his mother died, most of his
                    youth was spent in the care of his maternal relatives. He attended Centre College, Western Military
                    Institute, and Yale College from which he was graduated in 1852. At the latter institution he was
                    thrown into close contact with Andrew D. White and Daniel C. Gilman, who, like himself, were to
                    become presidents and guiding spirits in the founding of three universities. He took a law course in
                    the University of 
                        Louisville
                     in 1853.
            The Civil War found Johnston, like his father, on the southern side. Serving as major and
                    lieutenant-colonel of 
                        Kentucky
                     regiments and then as aide-de-camp to President Jefferson Davis, he came into close
                    contact with the important political and military leaders of the Confederacy. At the close of the
                    war he was captured along with Davis, and the author presents some interesting evidence from the
                    Johnston papers on the historic and world-shaking (&#x003F;) question as to how Davis was
                    dressed when captured. He was dressed &quote;as usual.&quot;
            Johnston, like some other southern leaders, had difficulty in reconciling himself with the fact of a
                    defeated South and remained something of an "unreconstructed rebel.&quot; Five years before
                    his death in 1899 he wrote, &quot;… my heart was buried with the Confederacy. On
                    it will be found engraved at the day of doom, 'C.S.A.' " But nostalgic reflections on the "Lost
                    Cause" did not prevent a great future as educator, lecturer, and writer from opening before him. In
                    1866 he was invited by General Robert E. Lee, president of Washington College (later 
                        Washington
                     and Lee University), to fill the chair of history and English literature, a position he
                    held until 1877. For a brief period in the early 1880&apos;s he served as president of
                    Louisiana State University where, because of political factors and financial difficulties, life was
                    none too pleasant for him. Johnston&apos;s greatest opportunity and greatest service in the
                    educational field came with the  founding of Tulane University in 
                        New Orleans
                    , which he served as first president from 1883 until his death.
            In the meantime, Johnston, as professor and president, did considerable lecturing and writing, first
                    in the field of history and English literature and later in the field of education. His published
                    works include several volumes of poems; but his greatest work, thinks the author, is his biography
                    of his father. Professor Shaw pictures Johnston as a liberal on labor relations, when such a
                    position was unpopular; but on race relations he held the prevailing views of his section.
            Having gleaned his materials largely from published and unpublished primary sources, the footnotes in
                    the volume indicate that the author has done scholarly work. As is not infrequently the case,
                    however, the style of writing hardly reaches as high a standard. The few typographical errors
                    indicate a high standard of editing. A bibliography and index are included.
            Willard H. Smith
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Hoosier City
                        , the Story of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . By Jeannette Covert Nolan. A Cities of America Biography. (
                        New York
                    : Julian Messner, Inc., 1943, pp. xvi, 317. &#x0024;2.75.)
            &quot;Not a guide book, not a history, but the engrossing quick-paced story
                    of a great city,&quot; is the publisher&apos;s characterization of this interesting
                    book. The contents fit the description. It is engrossing and quick-paced. It has some of the
                    characteristics of history, but it adheres to literary methods and aims rather than the technique of
                    the historian. It emphasizes the dramatic even though the dramatic may not be typical or
                    particularly significant. It is the result of research in records written by contemporaries of the
                    events described as newspapers and diaries. But diaries of children and a pageant which seems to
                    have influenced the narrative in the latter part seem less likely to be reliable historical sources.
                    Imaginary conversations and statements placed in quotations make it difficult to identify real
                    quotations. It is, therefore, correct to describe it as a story rather than history, although it
                    gives a vivid picture of the city&apos;s life.
            Consequently, it should be evaluated as to the effectiveness of the picture of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . On the whole the judgment must be favorable, but the effectiveness varies. Several  errors of fact indicate that the pioneer period is less well
                    understood than the later periods. Beginning with the Civil War the author has a surer grasp of
                    historical developments. In the industrial period slight attention is given to labor and the rise of
                    the city&apos;s economic structure does not figure in proportion to its importance. Facts
                    unfavorable to 
                        Indianapolis
                     are also almost entirely lacking. The critical attitude which Booth Tarkington
                    presented in The Turmoil and The Magnificent Ambersons is not to
                    be found in the present work. Readers will have little hesitancy in classifying Mrs. Nolan as a
                    devout Hoosier. Mrs. Nolan&apos;s study of the poet James W. Riley, in contrast, has enabled
                    her to bring him into the present story and to write one of the better portions of the book
                    concerning his time.
            On the positive side many readers will secure from this volume a better understanding of the 
                        Hoosier City
                    , its spirit in critical years of war, its aspirations in music, art, literature, and
                    education. It gives an interesting story of the founding, growth, and development of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in which all the various aspects are coordinated and interestingly woven into the
                    narrative. One must conclude that the author knows 
                        Indianapolis
                     and that she understands why 
                        Indianapolis
                     is not just another city.
         
         
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            FACTS AND FOIBLES OF GENEALOGY1
            
            JOSEPH C. WOLF
            
            Two years ago I had the privilege and pleasure of talking to this group on the "Tools and Techniques
                    of Genealogical Research.&quot;2 My paper at that time was rather
                    general and was composed partly of directions to the beginner and the somewhat advanced amateur, and
                    partly of hints which I hoped would be useful to the more experienced researcher. However, my
                    closing remarks-the last six sentences, in factwere a plea for accuracy, a demand that the
                    genealogist test and verify every note, every reference, every scrap of information discovered by
                    him before admitting it to serious consideration in his work.
            In the two years that have elapsed since that plea, I have seen a good many so-called genealogists at
                    work, and I have used a great many so-called family histories and genealogical compilations of
                    various kinds, and I have decided that the few sentences of warning with which I closed that paper
                    were perhaps the most important words I uttered that day.
            It is, I am afraid, a sad but indisputable fact that most genealogical research being carried on
                    today in this library and in every other library in the country is inaccurate, slipshod, and, in
                    many instances, consciously or unconsciously perverted from the truth to serve the researchers' own
                    ends. This is in part because the activity is being carried on by workers who are untrained in the
                    science of research, but it also is largely due to the fact that perhaps ninety per cent of the
                    books used by these seekers after family history contain factual errors, false assumptions, and
                    reckless reasoning.
            In other words, we have a field of study in which the research materials are both reliable and
                    unreliable. Unfortunately, there are more unreliable sources than in any other field, while at the
                    same time the workers using those materials have had less training in critical research procedure
                    than workers in other branches of study. Given such a situation, nothing can result but a constant
                    multiplication of 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the Genealogy Session of the Twentyfifth
                            Annual History Conference, December 11, 1943, at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     2
                            Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXVIII (1942), 93-105.
               
                     errors and a constant decline in the reputation of genealogy and
                    genealogists.
            It certainly is not my purpose to condemn all amateur genealogy. There are many competent amateurs
                    and there are many incompetent professionals. Nevertheless, it is true, I think, that the truly
                    valuable and reliable works in this field are almost entirely the work of the skilled professional.
                    But we cannot overlook the work of the skilled amateur, or even the conscientious unskilled amateur.
                    Both make important contributions, if it is only to provide clues to the trained worker, and even
                    the work of the most uncritical beginner is likely to be found accurate in the recent generations.
            The solution, perhaps, is to discourage the incompetents, the mere seekers after reflected glory, the
                    social climbers, and those who want a coat-of-arms because it will look handsome as a decoration
                    over their mantel. Once these pathetic folk and the professionals who cater to them have been weeded
                    out, we must proceed to educate the remaining serious workers to a proper appreciation of the
                    complex nature and actual science of genealogical research. We must point out to them the
                    qualifications for professional work, the strict disciplines and techniques that must be developed,
                    and the unfailing regard for the proven fact which must be the touchstone of all their efforts. Not
                    until such weeding out and such education has taken place can the defenders of genealogical research
                    be respected as the science it really is.
            I am not the first to criticize the mass of genealogical publications, or to insist upon a program of
                    improvement. But the interest in genealogy appears to be spreading instead of diminishing, even
                    despite the war, and I therefore feel that a few remarks on this subject, colored by my own
                    observations and experiences, may not be entirely useless.
            Let me discourage in two ways: first, by pointing out some common misconceptions concerning what is
                    possible in genealogy and heraldry; and second, by pointing out the truly exacting nature of real
                    genealogical research. Both discussions will, I trust, discourage the error-propagating drabblers,
                    but the second discussion, though it may give pause to the serious worker, will also, perhaps, show
                    him a way and a hope.
            Apparently one of the fondest dreams of the amateur genealogist is that he will be able to trace his
                    family to a  royal, or at least a noble origin. Admitted or
                    unadmitted, this dream is the spur that goads him in his labors, and very frequently it is strong
                    enough to cause him to overlook all sorts of inconsistencies and impossibilities in the pedigree
                    which finally "proves" such origin. And yet the facts, as pointed out a few years ago by the late
                    Mr. J. G. Bartlett, nationally known genealogist, are that not one of the five thousand heads of
                    families who came to America between 1620 and 1640 was actually of royal or noble birth. Moreover,
                    less than one per cent are known to have belonged to the upper gentry of 
                        England
                    , and only five per cent were of the minor mercantile or landed gentry. Despite this
                    fact, there are scores of published American family histories which claim royal or noble descent,
                    and which are graced by handsome colored reproductions of the family coat of arms.
            We have often heard it said that any person with English blood might (if all the records were
                    available) trace his ancestry to Alfred the Great. This may be true, but the line would be so long
                    that there would probably be small satisfaction in the possession of a very tiny drop of the blood
                    of Alfred the Great.
            The point may be better illustrated by an example much closer home. Many Americans are thrilled to
                    learn, or strive mightily to prove, that their families arrived on the "Mayflower.&quot; We
                    can sympathize with their enthusiasm, but we can only smile when knowledge of such descent leads
                    them to think that they are in exclusive company. The simple genealogical fact is that the
                    descendants of John Alden alone number at least five million.3
            
            Again, the passion of some Americans for coats-of-arms has resulted in a situation distressing to the
                    serious genealogical worker. All professional genealogists and all genealogical librarians are
                    constantly plagued by clients or readers in search of the family arms. Such persons often seize upon
                    the first handsome coat they see belonging to a family of the same surname and take it as their own.
                    Or they may fall into the hands of an unscrupulous professional-and there are a few-who will provide
                    them with anything they want for a fee.
            Actually, very few American families are entitled to bear 
                  
                     3 William B. Brown, &quot;An Unusual Lineage,&quot; in
                                Genealogical Review (
                                Chicago
                            , 1936-), I, 150.
               
                     arms. A coat-of-arms belongs only to the person to whom it was
                    granted and, like any other piece of property, to his direct descendants. Other persons of the same
                    surname, no matter how closely or how distantly related, have no right to it unless they descend
                    from the original owner. Consequently, the right to bear arms in this country is limited to those
                    comparatively few families who can show direct descent from an arms-bearing ancestor.
            The whole subject of heraldry is widely misunderstood, even by many professionals, and it may be
                    permissible, in this paper on genealogical facts and foibles, to take a few minutes to discuss the
                    matter.
            Historically, heraldry sprang from necessity, that mother of most inventions. It began as a mark of
                    identification in social intercourse, and it found its full flowering as a useful art in the Middle
                    Ages when it came to be used to distinguish warriors on the battlefield.
            Originally a knight was free to choose his own device, but by the fifteenth century the
                    multiplication of arms resulted in the complete systemization of the practice, and heraldry became
                    an exact science. Armorial bearings came to be granted by the king, and all arms, both the recently
                    granted and those established by right of ancient usage, were registered with the College of Arms,
                    if English, or with similar agencies in continental countries.
            The need for such identification declined with the passing of chivalry, but the custom was anchored
                    in antiquity, and had a definite appeal of its own. It held on and, of course, flourishes to this
                    day with the usual number of meaningless but completely accepted additions.
            The important point in all this, is that persons claiming the right to bear arms, still must prove
                    their descent from the men to whom those arms were granted or confirmed by the College of Arms, or,
                    if they wish a new coat, still must apply to the College of Arms, in 
                        London
                    .
            But let us consider in greater detail the situation as it affects Americans.
            While this country was under English domination, before the Revolutionary War, there was some general
                    regulation of the right to bear arms, or at least there were customs and rules of the mother country
                    which the colonists should have followed. Apparently, however, no effort was made  by the colonial governors to compel the citizens to abide by the laws,
                    and as a result the later colonists did pretty much as they pleased about displaying anything which
                    struck their fancy. Some of the residents were, of course, descended from gentle and noble families,
                    and were entitled to bear arms. Others were not, but as they grew in wealth and social prestige,
                    they, too, desired to obtain arms such as their neighbors had. Some of these persons really tried to
                    trace descent from an armigerous ancestor, but Others simply appropriated any design that was
                    pleasing or that seemed significant in their situation.
            At the close of the seventeenth century this illegal use of arms was helped along by an obliging
                    carriage painter of 
                        Boston
                     named Gore. Mr. Gore created arms for the 
                        Boston
                     socialites of that day, and eventually he made a roll of arms which is completely
                    without authority, but which is useful today as showing what families were then claiming the right
                    to use arms.
            About a century later another gentleman performed similar labors throughout New 
                        England
                    . The work of this man, a Mr. Cole, has even less authority than Gore&apos;s,
                    but his influence, perhaps, has been more widespread and therefore more ~ disastrous in its results.
                    In my early years at Newberry Library I well remember being puzzled by the large number of persons
                    who came to me carrying tattered old paintings of the family arms. The painting, I was usually
                    assured, was the original design submitted to their ancestor by the College of Arms, and this
                    valuable document had been brought to America by the immigrating member of the family. I was further
                    puzzled by the fact that all these paintings had certain characteristics in common, such as an
                    elaborately embroidered shield, two leek-or onion-leaves crossed beneath the shield, a much too high
                    placing of the crest above the helmet, and a motto which usually ran "By the name of
                    Smith,&quot; or "By the name of Jones,&quot; or whatever the family name happened to
                    be. Eventually I learned that these all were the productions of the Mr. Cole in question, and that
                    all were fraudulent. I have, I am afraid, wounded many of our library&apos;s readers by
                    pointing out this forgery.
            During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the wholesale assumption of arms reached huge
                    proportions. Most persons took them without the shadow of a claim. Some  Americans then believed, and some still do, that the bearing of a
                    surname the same as an armigerous family entitles them to use the same arms. I repeat, that a
                    coat-of-arms belongs only to the person to whom it was granted, and to those who can prove direct
                    descent, through the direct line, from that person. Because of American interest in heraldry, the
                    New 
                        England
                     Historic Genealogical Society, of 
                        Boston
                    , has created a Committee on Heraldry. It is the function of this Committee to
                    investigate and establish the right to certain American families to bear arms, and it has published
                    a roll of authentic coats-of-arms. It must, however, be borne in mind that such registration has no
                    legal effect, or any meaning other than that, in the opinion of the Committee, such arms are
                    rightfully used by certain families. The Committee accepts all coats where descent is proved from a
                    grantee of arms or from a family that has used them from mediaeval times. It also accepts arms where
                    it can be proved that the first comer to this country used them; but if it be shown that such user
                    was without right, the arms are removed from the list.
            This Committee is as close as we can come on this side of the ocean to anything like the English
                    College of Arms.
            I could spend several hours discussing common misconceptions regarding heraldry, such as the
                    ridiculous explanations of the meanings of the charges, but perhaps what I have said thus far is
                    sufficient for our present project in discouragement.
            The moral underlying all my observations thus far, I think, is that genealogical research is far more
                    than copying. We cannot blindly copy royal ancestral lines because somewhere in a pedigree we come
                    across our surname; and we cannot blindly copy a coat-of-arms because we like the color and the
                    design and the original owner happened to bear our name. And, of course, we cannot possibly compile
                    an accurate family history by the simple act of examining printed books and copying from them
                    whatever materials seem to bear on our supposed family. Genealogy compiled solely from such sources
                    does not deserve the name, yet some self-styled genealogists boast of their success by this means.
                    What is even more unfortunate, their work is frequently printed and is thereby placed within reach
                    of other inexperienced and uncritical workers.
            
            It must continually be born in mind by every worker in the field, that no one book, nor, indeed, all
                    the books ever printed, cover all the circumstances surrounding even one member of a family. The
                    searcher must go to original source materials, such as church records, land records, wills, deeds,
                    census records, town records, county court records, probate records, and also to the vital records
                    of the towns concerned in the search.
            The use of such records was touched upon in my earlier paper read before this group, and there are so
                    many excellent guides to their use-Gilbert H. Doane, Donald L. Jacobus, and Henry R. Stiles among
                    them-that there is no need to develop the subject here. What I do wish to emphasize is the training
                    and skill required in their use. Many of these original records exist only in manuscripts,
                    frequently in a seventeenth- or eighteenth-century hand. Special training and practice are needed to
                    decipher such writing, and even skilled persons frequently make mistakes in copying. More and more
                    of these manuscript records are being printed for the benefit of historians; but even such works,
                    which are usually carefully done, contain errors, and the skilled genealogist occasionally finds
                    himself going back to the original manuscript in an attempt to clear up what appears to be a dubious
                    entry in the printed record.
            Furthermore, no one can make intelligent use of such records without a fair knowledge of the
                    contemporary meaning of common terms and phrases. Most of us know, probably, that "cousin" in
                    colonial times meant a nephew or a niece or even a close friend, oftener than it signified the child
                    of one&apos;s aunt or uncle. There are many other terms that mean one thing to us, but meant
                    something quite different to our ancestors.
            In fact, an appellate court decided that the "language and custom of the times" should be used in
                    interpreting old legal documents.
            The genealogist, in short, must develop imagination and historical perspective. He must examine his
                    materials in the light of contemporary circumstances, which means that he must be aware of economic
                    conditions, of social customs, and of political and religious beliefs in the area under study.
                    Lacking such knowledge, the careful genealogist will consult with a person having the required
                    information before proceeding  too far with his work. I know of
                    one more or less celebrated genealogical problem which baffled some of our best professionals for
                    more than one hundred years. The case involved the complete disappearance from the records of a man
                    who had been a successful shipbuilder in his community. Everyone who tackled the problem ended up by
                    assuming that the man had suffered financial reverses and had deliberately retired to obscurity. One
                    professional, however, an acquaintance of mine, reasoned that a man who had shown so much initiative
                    would probably look about for a town where the shipbuilding business was booming and would transfer
                    his interests to that place. Accordingly, this genealogist studied the economic history of the time,
                    and chose for further investigation a town whose shipping industries began to flourish about the
                    time of our shipbuilder&apos;s mysterious disappearance. He had not worked very long before
                    he turned up a complete and well-documented history of his man&apos;s very successful career
                    in the new location, including his will which had been sought for more than a century.
            I have said enough, I think, to emphasize my point that true genealogical research is something more
                    than casual notetaking.
            The care, skill, and actual labor required in compiling a dependable genealogy are beyond the
                    comprehension of anyone who has not done it. Every item which comes up for consideration must be
                    weighed in the light of possibility, probability, and surety from the various viewpoints of history,
                    geography, physiology, logic, and the other sciences. Any material that can pass these tests may be
                    included. Any that cannot must be excluded. The person who knows how to make these tests and
                    exercise this care, and only such person, may properly be called a genealogist.
            Stiles summed it all up in two paragraphs when he wrote, back in 1899: 
                        The requirements of genealogy are: First, an "eye single to the truth"; second, a power of
                            sharp, clear and logical statement of facts, a methodical way of sifting, collating and
                            arranging them, a capacity of seeing and using the deductions which arise from them, and,
                            particularly, caution against a too ready reception of all sources of information; third,
                            the true genealogist should eminently possess, both from nature and practice, the judicial
                            cast of mind, holding his judgment in such perfect equipoise that it cannot be easily swayed
                            by personal prejudices or extraneous influences; fourth, above all, the characteristic which
                                 distinguished the best genealogist is, what has been
                            happily described as "a relentless objectivity in the pursuit of
                            facts….&quot;
                        The opinions of the genealogist should be so carefully based on facts, and so fortified by
                            references and authorities, that his every statement should have the weight and value of a
                            solemn affirmation.4
                  
                    
            
            Yet, in spite of careful training and conscientious effort, some professional genealogists make
                    errors. I have in mind one case where evidence was sought to confirm the relationship of certain
                    persons. After some search a will was found naming all the persons in the problem. The report was
                    prepared and ready to deliver, when the genealogist thought of one more source of information. He
                    procured a census record and learned to his surprise that the will did not fit his problem, because
                    it was made by the son of the man being studied. By a curious circumstance all the members of the
                    two families bore the same names.
            Perhaps the most famous error in recent times concerns the account of the kinship of President
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and General Douglas McArthur. It was definitely stated
                    that both Mr. Churchill and President Roosevelt descended from John Cooke, who came in the
                    "Mayflower,&quot; and his wife, Sarah 
                        Warren
                    , the daughter of Mr. Richard Warren, who also came in the "Mayflower.&quot;
                    This account was widely accepted as a record of kinship which would more closely unite our country
                    with Great Britain in this time of stress.
            The compiler of the article, unfortunately, had not found a most pertinent record. Mr. Churchill
                    descends from a Daniel Wilcox, Sr., who married not just once, but twice, and the second wife was a
                    daughter of John Cooke, of the "Mayflower.&quot; But it was the first wife, name unknown,
                    who was Mr. Churchill&apos;s ancestor, as the document proves, hence he is not related to
                    President Roosevelt on this line.
            This is just another example of not searching far enough.
            Perhaps the ultimate in careful genealogy is that used in legal cases. Each item, each date, each
                    place, and each relationship must be established by a recognized and accepted legal document. In
                    contests over some estates, not just one record, but as many as five or six legal records are used
                    to prove a point. Thus, in addition to a birth record, a marriage 
                  
                     4 Henry R. Stiles, A Hand-Book of Practical Suggestions
                                for the Use of Students in Genealogy (
                        Albany, New York
                     ,
                            1899), 12, 13.
               
                     record, and a death record, which in ordinary circumstances
                    would be amply sufficient to establish the fact, the technicalities of the particular lawsuit may
                    require a deed or two, a will or two, a court record, and perhaps a census record. The aim, in legal
                    cases, is to prove the relationship beyond any possibility of contradiction. Such work really
                    constitutes not only careful genealogy, but also scientific genealogy.
            It is not my intention to insist that all my listeners become
                    &quote;legal-genealogists,&quot; but it is my intention to point out that the skill
                    and care used in legal cases should, sooner or later, be applied to every compilation. Then, and
                    only then, will we have the family history on which we can depend, and of which we will always be
                    proud.
         
         
         
            WAYNE COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1811-18171
            
            Mrs. Irene Macy Strieby
            
               
                        Wayne County
                     was formed by statute of November 27, 1810, effective January 1, 1811, and the first
                    court was held on February 25, 1811. The first settlement of white men within the present county
                    boundaries was made in 1805; prior to 1811 this land was in the county of 
                        Dearborn
                    , the county seat of which is 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , on the Ohio River. Licenses to marry, prior to March, 1811, were
                    procured in that county seat. The first marriage of 
                        Wayne County
                     residents was that of Polly Whitehead and John Hunt in 1807. That license was granted
                    in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     as probably was that of Joseph Holman and Lydia Overman, dated November 22, 1810.2
            
            In addition to the marriage records in the clerk&apos;s office, other 
                        Wayne County
                     marriages may be found in the records of the Society of Friends. Copies of records of
                    the Whitewater Monthly Meeting, 1809-1852, and the 
                        New Garden
                     Monthly Meeting, 1816-1852, are in the Indiana State Library.
            In the clerk&apos;s office at 
                        Richmond
                    , there are two volumes containing the earliest marriage records, one called the
                    "original" from which this transcription was made, and the other a copy of the "original" made at
                    some later date. The writing in this copy is more difficult to read than that of the original; a few
                    marriages were omitted in the former and four pages of names that appear in Marriage Book A, March,
                    1817, through July, 1830, were included. Each has an index. These indexes and the copy were used for
                    checking purposes only.
            It will be seen that the marriages do not appear in chronological order. There are two reasons for
                    this. Ministers and others authorized to perform marriages were unable to make returns promptly and
                    sometimes did not report these for long periods and sometimes not at all. At some time in the past,
                    unfortunately, some of the pages have been taken out of the volume and have not been properly
                    replaced. The first fifty marriages are numbered; a mistake appears in the numbering, 
                  
                     1 Transcribed from the microfilm copy of 
                                Wayne County
                             Marriage Records, March, 1811, to April, 1817, made for the Society of Indiana
                            Pioneers in June, 1943, from the original volume in the clerk&apos;s office, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     2
                            History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), II, 271; Andrew Young, History of 
                                    Wayne County
                                , Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1872), 149, 179.
               
                     thus precluding the possibility of assigning the original
                    numbers in this transcript for reference purposes. An unsuccessful attempt was made to rearrange the
                    marriages in chronological order when the copy was made.
            In view of the above reasons, it seemed best to make the transcription from the microfilm of the
                    original volume in the order that the marriages appear in it, A new index has been prepared, with
                    page numbers following the names so that the searcher will have the actual page number to use in
                    quoting references, in ordering certified copies from the county, or in requesting photoprints from
                    the microfilm copy. Attention should be called to the explanation of the index for the numbering of
                    pages 4a, 4b, 5a, and 5b.
            Several of the names have been checked with histories of 
                        Wayne County
                    , the 1810 list of taxpayers of the county on file in the William Henry Smith Memorial
                    Library., and the 1820 and 1830 photostats of the census on file in the Genealogy Division of the
                    State Library. Although an attempt has been made to spell the names exactly as written in the
                    original volume, several variants have been suggested in the index. Even with this care it is
                    possible that some one with an ancestor by the name of Ashby may find it transcribed as Ashley.
                    Phonetic spelling must always be taken into consideration. The letter "S" often proves a stumbling
                    block; hence the question mark after the name of Leany in the index. Owen Seany, Sr., came from 
                        North Carolina
                     to 
                        Boston
                     Township, 
                        Wayne County
                    , in 1809.3
            
            There is no way in which to explain the apparent discrepancy, unless there were two people of the
                    same name, in the marriages of Polly Resbuk (or Resbuck) to David Fisher in 1811 and to Benjamin
                    Fisher in 1812. She could not have been a widow in 1812 since David Fisher married Betsy Hodges in
                    1815. The name Resbuk is puzzling in itself, inasmuch as no clue has been found of a family of that
                    name in 
                        Wayne County
                    . It is barely possible that Resbuk is intended for Railsback since that was a prominent
                    family name there. The marriages of three different couples are recorded twice in the volume. There
                    may have been two women by the name of Sally Shortridge since there are two marriages recorded under
                    this name to two different men listed in 1816.
            
               
                  3
                        History of 
                                Wayne County
                            
                  , II, 270.
            
            
            
               
                  
                            WAYNE COUNTY
                         MARRIAGE RECORDS
               
                  
                            Names
                        
                  
                            Dates
                        
                  
                            Married By
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                            License
                        
                  
                            Marriage
                        
                  
               
               
                  Ephraim Boles &amp; Rutha Hoggatt
                  3-11-1811
                  3-21-1811
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek p. 1
               
               
                  William Farlow &amp; Betsey Millar
                  4- 3-1811
                  4- 4-1811
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  William Watson &amp; Nancy Rue
                  4- 5-1811
                  4- 7-1811
                  Judge Aaron Martin
               
               
                  Milton Ashby &amp; Polly White
                  
                  1-20-1811
                  Rev. LazarusWhite-head
               
               
                  Matthew Walls &amp; Barbara Cain
                  5-14-1811
                  5-18-1811
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek p. 2
               
               
                  James Martin &amp; Rachel Stevenson
                  5-15-1811
                  5-16-1811
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  James Brown &amp; Peggy Smith
                  5-17-1811
                  5-25-1811
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  William Meek &amp; Patsy Holman
                  6-5-1811
                  6-6-1811
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Jacob Julian &amp; Mary Harvey
                  6-7-1811
                  6-13-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq. p. 3
               
               
                  Jeremiah Cox &amp; Rutha Andrew
                  7-8-1811
                  7-10-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Abraham Jessop &amp; Hannah Wright
                  8-2-1811
                  8-3-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  William Conner &amp; Sally Kelly
                  8-3-1811
                  8-4-1811
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Cain &amp; Patty Fielder
                  8-5-1811
                  8-20-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  John Plummer &amp; Isabella Harvey
                  8-13-1811
                  8-13-1811
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 4a
               
               
                  Jonathan Gilbert &amp; Peggy Clark
                  9-3-1811
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Stephenson &amp; Sally Martin
                  9-11-1811
                  9-13-1811
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Pleasant Harris &amp; Hannah Massay
                  9-28-1811
                  10-3-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Levi Purviance &amp; Sophia Woods
                  9-19-1811
                  9-24-1811
                  Judge Peter Fleming p. 5a
               
               
                  Joseph Overman &amp; Huldah Hill
                  9-30-1811
                  10-&#x003F;-1811
                  John Ireland, Esq.
               
               
                  James Holman &amp; Peggy Jordan
                  10-26-1811
                  10-27-1811
                  Judge Aaron Martin
               
               
                  David Fisher &amp; Polly Resbuk
                  11-&#x003F;-1811
                  11-&#x003F;-1811
                  Judge Aaron Martin
               
               
                  Obediah Harris &amp; Sally Lewis
                  12-13-1811
                  12-19-1811
                  David Hoover, Esq. p. 4b
               
               
                  Thomas Bradbury &amp; Caty Hunt
                  2-23-1812
                  2-23-1812
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
               
                  Jacob Beeler &amp; Esther Conn
                  2-28-1812
                  3-1-1812
                  John Cox, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry McLean &amp; Rebekah Cain
                  3-24-1812
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Taylor &amp; Charlotte McLean
                  3-24-1812
                  3-27-1812
                  David Hoover, Esq. p. 5b
               
               
                  James Montgomery &amp; Elizabeth Stephenson
                  4-7-1812
                  4-7-1812
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  John Montgomery &amp; Sally Stephenson
                  4-16-1812
                  4-16-1812
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  James Ireland &amp; Polly Maxwell
                  4-20-1812
                  
                  John Ireland, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Wilson &amp; Nancy Deake (&#x003F;)
                  4-27-1812
                  4-28-1812
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Edward Hunt &amp; Elizabeth Endsley
                  5-2-1812
                  5-3-1812
                  Rev. Lazarus White- head p. 6
               
               
                  Smith Hunt &amp; Betsey Lamb
                  5-31-1812
                  5-31-1812
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Peter Miller &amp; Elizabeth Petre
                  6-13-1812
                  6-16-1812
                  Rev. Lazarus White head
               
               
                  Hiram Butler &amp; Peggy Woodkuk
                  6-27-1812
                  7-8-1812
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  John Smith &amp; Abigail Cowen
                  7-20-1812
                  7-23-1812
                  John Cox, Esq. p.7
               
               
                  Benson Miner &amp; Sally Sutton
                  7-24-1812
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Whitehead &amp; Caty Brown
                  8-4-1812
                  8-4-1812-Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Elijah Brook &amp; Mary Way
                  9-8-1812
                  9-9-18-12-David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  
                  1-12-1813
                  1-12-1813
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  George W. Wood &amp; Agness Fall
                  1-9-1813
                  1-14-1813
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead p. 8
               
               
                  John Farlow &amp; Caty Miller
                  1-26-1813
                  1-28-1813
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Joseph Hunt &amp; Jenny Endsley
                  9-2-1812
                  9-13-1812
                  Beale Butler, Esq.
               
               
                  James W. Maxwell &amp; Keziah Fleming
                  4-8-1813
                  4-8-1813
                  John Ireland, Esq.
               
               
                  James W. Taylor &amp; Esther Fall
                  6-9-1813
                  6-17-1813
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead p. 9
               
               
                  Benjamin Fisher &amp; Polly Resbuck (&#x003F;)
                  6-19-1812
                  6-20-1812
                  John Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  Benjamin Alexander &amp; Mary Hunt
                  
                  4-29-1813
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  Tense Massey &amp; Elizabeth Ready
                  7-3-1813
                  7-4-1813
                  John Davenport, Esq.
               
               
               
                  William Ireland &amp; Annie Alexander
                  7-29-1813
                  8-3-1813
                  John Ireland, Esq.
               
               
                  William Harvey &amp; Sarah Charles
                  5-18-1813
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Spencer &amp; Jinny Ring
                  7-16-1813
                  
                  p. 10
               
               
                  Joseph Little &amp; Anne Bedwell
                  10- 6-1813
                  10-7-1813
                  Rev. Larazus Whitehead
               
               
                  Stephen Jones &amp; Deborah Lewallen
                  10-20-1813
                  10-28-1813
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Morgan Verdemon &amp; Elizabeth V. Walker
                  8-20-1813
                  8-24-1813
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Amos Jones &amp; Patsy Hatfield
                  11-20-1813
                  11-20-1813
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Francis Harvey &amp; Elizabeth Snider
                  10-27-1813
                  10-28-1813
                  Issac Esteb, Esq. p. 11
               
               
                  Robert Waddell &amp; Lovina Nutter
                  11-13-1813
                  11-16-1813
                  Issac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  William Rash &amp; Anne Eggers
                  8-23-1813
                  8-26-1813
                  Issac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Edward Holman &amp; Miriam Rue
                  &#x003F;-&#x003F;-1813
                  "next day"
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  George Rinard &amp; Catherine Ready
                  12-1-1813
                  12-3-1813
                  Daved Hoover, Esq. p. 12
               
               
                  Joseph Pemberton &amp; Elenor Ashley
                  12-3-1813
                  12- &#x003F;-1813
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  David McClane &amp; Polly Williams
                  
                  12-25-1813
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Massay &amp; Rebecca Bulla
                  1-6-1814
                  
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  James Tatem &amp; Becky Chambers
                  2-10-1814
                  2-10-1814
                  Issac Esteb, Esq. p. 13
               
               
                  Joshua Addington &amp; Rebecca Morgan
                  
                  1-28-1814
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  John Wood &amp; Polly Connoway
                  
                  12-26-1813
                  Rev. James Smith
               
               
                  Daniel Trimble &amp; Sally Henson
                  3-11-1814
                  3-13-1814
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  Griner Wilson &amp; Ellenor Blair Walker
                  3-14-1814
                  3-17-1814
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Albert Murphy &amp; Rosanna Whitinger
                  6-6-1814
                  6-7-1814
                  John Cox, Esq. p. 14
               
               
                  Joel Hill &amp; Elizabeth Chryst
                  6-16-1814
                  6-16-1814
                  John Cox, Esq.
               
               
                  John Biggs &amp; Caroline Plummer
                  7-6-1814
                  7-7-1814
                  Issac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  William Galbraith &amp; Patsy McLain
                  6-4-1814
                  6-5-1814
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
               
                  Aaron Elliott &amp; Polly Lindley
                  7-24-1814
                  7-29-1814
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq. p. 15
               
               
                  John Summers &amp; Nancy Harlan
                  6-29-1814
                  
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Joseph Shelley &amp; Elizabeth Williams
                  8-17-1814
                  8-18-1814
                  John Cox, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Roberts &amp; Amy Cox
                  9-3-1814
                  9-5-1814
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Benefiel &amp; Mary Montgomery
                  9-3-1814
                  9-6-1814
                  John Cox, Esq. p. 16
               
               
                  Zachariah Dicks &amp; Jemima Vestal
                  9-13-1814
                  9-15-1814
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Noah Fouts &amp; Phebe Nelson
                  8-22-1814
                  8-25-1814
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Eli Wright &amp; Betsy Nelson
                  8-23-1814
                  8-25-1814
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  James White &amp; Jane Boswell
                  9-19-1814
                  9-20-1814
                  David Hoover, Esq. p. 17
               
               
                  Jacob Gallien &amp; Polly Porter
                  9-23-1814
                  9-29-1814
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  James Waddell &amp; Anne Cox
                  9-26-1814
                  9-28-1814
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Jonathan Townsend &amp; Polly Clawson
                  9-26-1814
                  9-28-1814
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathan Farlow &amp; Martha Lewis
                  10-4-1814
                  10-6-1814
                  Rev. Lazarus White- head p. 18
               
               
                  Samuel Martin &amp; Damaris Rambo
                  10-10-1814
                  10-11-1814
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Elijah Holland &amp; Dicey Dollarhide
                  10-18-1814
                  10-20-1814
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  James Little &amp; Susanna Leany (&#x003F;)
                  10-19-1814
                  10-20-1814
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Gallien &amp; Tabitha Warren
                  10-29-1814
                  11-3-1814
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek p. 19
               
               
                  James Warren &amp; Sophia Gallien
                  10-29-1814
                  11-3-1814
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  George Imel &amp; Betsy Derham
                  10-29-1814
                  10-30-1814
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  John Wallace &amp; Mary Banks
                  3-9-1815
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Martin &amp; Lydia Noland
                  11-4-1814
                  11-6-1814
                  Beale Butler, Esq. p. 20
               
               
                  John Sutherland &amp; Jane Brown
                  11-29-1814
                  11-30-1814
                  Josiah Davidson, Esq.
               
               
                  James Chambers &amp; Mahala Chryst
                  12-5-1814
                  
                  
               
               
                  Travis Adcock &amp; Susanna Moorman
                  12-6-1814
                  12-7-1814
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Laban Carner &amp; Jane Little
                  12-5-1814
                  12-6-1814
                  John Cox, Esq. p. 21
               
               
                  Joe Ginn &amp; Sally McKee
                  12-10-1814
                  12-15-1814
                  Josiah Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  John Bailey &amp; Rebecca Ridge
                  12-26-1814
                  12-29-1814
                  Josiah Davidson, Esq.
               
               
                  Joshua Craner &amp; Susanna Johnston
                  1-3-1815
                  1-5-1815
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  George Shortridge &amp; Susanna Joff
                  1-2-1815
                  
                  Josiah Davidson, Esq. p. 22
               
               
                  David Harman &amp; Rebecca Walker
                  1-11-1815
                  1-12-1815
                  Josiah Davidson, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Dimit &amp; Rachel Elliott
                  1-15-1815
                  1-20-1815
                  Josiah Davidson, Esq.
               
               
                  Alexander Graham &amp; Parmela McHenry
                  1-18-1815
                  1-19-1815
                  Jesse Daveport, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Emil &amp; Huldah Little
                  2-17-1815
                  2-19-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 23
               
               
                  Jacob Jessup &amp; Elizabeth Gray
                  2-25-1815
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nathan Garret &amp; Cassey Davis
                  3-27-1815
                  3-30-1815 Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Elisha Dennis &amp; Elizabeth Wallace
                  4-3-1815
                  6-15-1815
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  John Wallace &amp; Mary Banks
                  
                  3-16-1815
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  John Meek &amp; Betty Gibson
                  4-22-1815
                  4-23-1815
                  Rev. Lazarus White- head p. 24
               
               
                  Ralph Wright &amp; Usley White
                  4-24-1815
                  4-27-1815
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Hugh &amp; Margaret Byford
                  3-24-1815
                  3-27-1815
                  Rev. Lazarus Whitehead
               
               
                  Ruf Beechamps &amp; Hannah Lamb
                  5-12-1815
                  5-15-1815
                  David Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Michael Spencer &amp; Elizabeth Miner
                  5-17-1815
                  5-25-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John Cain &amp; Hannah McCalla
                  6-1-1815
                  6-8-1815
                  Rev. John Somerville
               
               
                  James Bedwell &amp; Rachel Stanley
                  7-4-1815
                  7-6-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Manlove Caldwell &amp; Esther Crane
                  5-2-1815
                  5-4-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John McCombs &amp; Sallay Moore
                  7-29-1815
                  7-30-1815
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 26
               
               
                  John Cox, Jr., &amp; Martha Moffat
                  8-2-1815
                  8-3-1815
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  William White &amp; Sarah Thornbrough
                  8-10-1815
                  8-10-1815
                  Beale Butler, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Harvey &amp; Abigail Summer
                  8-22-1815
                  8-24-1815
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
               
                  Jacob Aker &amp; Elizabeth Shover
                  12-18-1816
                  12-19-1816
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 27
               
               
                  Josiah Allen &amp; Sarah Harvey
                  12-26-1816
                  12-26-1816
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  John Allen &amp; Francis Thompson
                  12-26-1816
                  12-26-1816
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  William Dunhen (&#x003F;) &amp; Mary Miller
                  
                  10-10-1816
                  John Cox, Esq.
               
               
                  William Diggs &amp; Charlotte Way
                  
                  10-6-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  Michael Snider &amp; Nancy Summers
                  10-22-1816
                  10-24-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Jacob Whitman &amp; Mary Farlow
                  12-4-1816
                  12-5-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 28
               
               
                  William Gallion &amp; Mehuldah Lamb
                  1-3-1817
                  1-9-1817
                  John Gibson, Esq.
               
               
                  William Philips &amp; Polly Scanland
                  12-19-1816
                  12-26-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  John Gossett &amp; Mary Petre
                  12-16-1816
                  12-19-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Mathew Beauchamp &amp; Rebecca Mendinghall
                  1- 9-1817
                  
                  p. 29
               
               
                  William Frazier &amp; Patsy McClelland
                  12-16-1816
                  12-20-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq.
               
               
                  William Spencer &amp; Lydia McComus
                  12-27-1816
                  1-2-1817
                  Issac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Bidwell &amp; Eunice Stanley
                  1-16-1817
                  1-16-1817
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  George Ish &Mary Ann Wisehart
                  12-24-1816
                  12-24-1816
                  Rev. Benjamin Lawrence
               
               
                  John Benefiel &amp; Hannah Thomas
                  10-30-1816
                  11-7-1816
                  p. 30
               
               
                  Robert Worl &amp; Phebe Williams
                  2-19-1817
                  2-19-1817
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Henry Way &amp; Rachel Manlove
                  12-29-1816
                  12-29-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  Benjamin Rutledge &amp; Elizabeth Odell
                  9-15-1816
                  9-15-1816
                  Abraham Elliott. Esq. p. 31
               
               
                  Thomas T. Lewis &amp; Sally Meek
                  12-12-1816
                  12-12-1816
                  Daniel Fraley, Esq.
               
               
                  John Bailey &amp; Patsy Lamb
                  2-18-1817
                  2-18-1817
                  Daniel Fraley, Esq.
               
               
                  Morgan Wilson &amp; Elenor Meek
                  2-6-1817
                  2-6-1817
                  Daniel Fraley, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Burk &amp; Betsy Watson
                  3-28-1817
                  3-30-1817
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 32
               
               
                  James Tyner &amp; Zillah Reed
                  3-9-1817
                  3-10-1817
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  David James &amp; Jane Dwiggins
                  2-27-1817
                  2-27-1817
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Henry Bryant &amp; Jane Crawford
                  4-3-1817
                  4-3-1817
                  Isaac Julian, Esq.
               
               
                  John Marshall &amp; Nancy Potter
                  3-1-1817
                  3-6-1817
                  Rev. Benjamin Lawrence p. 33
               
               
                  William Hunt &amp; Matilda Smith
                  9-3-1815
                  9-3-1815
                  Rev. Hugh Cull p. 34
               
               
                  John McClain &amp; Caty Hoover
                  8-25-1815
                  8-27-1815
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  Isaac Beeson &amp; Eliza Rambo
                  9-18-1815
                  9-19-1815
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  William Dunman &amp; Susanna White
                  9-19-1815
                  9-21-1815
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  William Gossett &amp; Charity Hageman
                  9-25-1815
                  9-26-1815
                  John Cox, Esq. p. 35
               
               
                  Thomas Cook &amp; Polly Burgess
                  9-26-1815
                  9-28-1815
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  William Hunter& Miriam Moore
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Asabel Woodward &amp; Kitty Hollet
                  9-30-1815
                  10-1-1815
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas McLane &amp; Nacy Edwards
                  9-30-1815
                  10-5-1815
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 36
               
               
                  David Fisher &amp; Betsy M. Hodges
                  10-12-1815
                  10-12-1815
                  Beale Butler, Esq.
               
               
                  Johne Lane &amp; Rosanna Crumb
                  9-12-1815
                  9-16-1815
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Reuben Overman &amp; Jane Spencer
                  10-24-1815
                  10-25-1815
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Shortridge &amp; Caty Crumb
                  9-13-1815
                  &#x003F;-&#x003F;-1815
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  John Leany (&#x003F;) &amp; Polly Martin
                  9-9-1815
                  9-10-1815
                  Issac Esteb, Esq. p. 37
               
               
                  David Cannady &amp; Patsy Ring
                  12-18-1815
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Gillom &amp; Phebe Cook
                  
                  12-16-1815
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Thomas Sailors &amp; Susanna Case (&#x003F;)
                  
                  12-16-1815
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Issac Miller &amp; Martha Beard
                  10-28-1815
                  10-28-1815
                  Charles Royster, Esq.
               
               
                  William Commons &amp; Sarah Brady
                  11-21-1815
                  11-29-1815
                  Isaac Julian, Esq. p. 38
               
               
                  Joseph Berry &amp; Shally Shaver
                  12-20-1815
                  12-21-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James Bridget &amp; Rebecca Allen
                  12-22-1815
                  12-24-1815
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Alexander &amp; Margaret Hawkins
                  1-1-1815
                  1-4-1815
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Anderson Gordon &amp; Lydia James
                  
                  12-28-1815
                  John Cox, Esq.
               
               
               
                  John Bradbury &amp; Lydia Murphy
                  1-16-1816
                  
                  p. 39
               
               
                  Silas Dunn &amp; Jane Montgomery
                  1-20-1816
                  1-23-1816
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Elijah Martindale &amp; Elizabeth Boyd
                  10-7-1815
                  10-12-1815
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  John Powel &amp; Peggy Hoff
                  1-20-1816
                  1-30-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq.
               
               
                  William McGraw &amp; Martha Higgins
                  1-23-1816
                  1-25-1816
                  Rev. Adam Banks p. 40
               
               
                  John Barton &amp; Rebecca Long
                  1-25-1816
                  1-28-1816
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Cristian Hindall &amp; Eve Miller
                  2-6-1816
                  2-13-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John Smith &amp; Sally Meek
                  2-9-1816
                  2-15-1816
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  John Mires &amp; Sally Plummer
                  2-10-1816
                  2-15-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel p. 41
               
               
                  David Canada &amp; Patsy Ring
                  12-18-1815
                  12-23-1815
                  Beale Butler, Esq.
               
               
                  John Drake &amp; Esther Elston
                  2-19-1816
                  2-22-1816
                  Rev. Stephen Oldham
               
               
                  Andrew Blount &amp; Sally Warren
                  2-23-1816
                  3-7-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  John Stump &amp; Anna Sutherland
                  3-9-1816
                  3-14-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq. p. 42
               
               
                  Caleb Nail &amp; Anne Miller
                  3-25-1816
                  3-28-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  John Jones &amp; Sally Shortride
                  
                  3-6-1816
                  Isaac Julian, Esq.
               
               
                  David McNeal &amp; Sally Misor
                  
                  12-8-1816
                  Isaac Julian, Esq.
               
               
                  John Johnston &amp; Anna Way
                  
                  3-14-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  Orr Scofield &amp; Lydia Chamness
                  4-14-1816
                  4-14-1816
                  Richard Lewis, Esq. p. 43
               
               
                  Bishop Addington &amp; Betsy Cain
                  4-15-1816
                  4-19-1816
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Wills Buzan &amp; Maria Kendall
                  3-9-1816
                  3-10-1816
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Joseph Meek &amp; Julia Elmira Smith
                  3-24-1816
                  3-24-1816
                  Judge Jeremiah Meek
               
               
                  Daniel Fraly &amp; Polly Meek
                  4-25-1816
                  4-25-1816
                  Rev. Hugh Cull p. 44
               
               
                  John Beard &amp; Maria Burris
                  3-1-1816
                  3-4-1816
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Renny Julian &amp; Charlotta Pearson
                  5-13-1816
                  5-16-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
               
                  John Nixon &amp; Miriam Bundy
                  
                  4-19-1816
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Francis Mendenhall &amp; Polly Albert
                  
                  3-17-1816
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Mason &amp; Griselda Elliott
                  5-22-1816
                  
                  p. 45
               
               
                  Henry Bryan &amp; Jane Crawford
                  5-30-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Arnold Drury &amp; Sally Shortridge
                  6-1-1816
                  6-7-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq.
               
               
                  Leonard Stump &amp; Nancy Louder
                  6-1-1816
                  6-21-1816
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Abner Clawson &amp; Betsy White
                  6-3-1816
                  6-6-1816
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 46
               
               
                  John Boroughs &amp; Patsy Chambers
                  6-4-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas West &amp; Mary Benbow
                  6-9-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Brown &amp; Nancy Dougherty
                  7-20-1816
                  7-25-1816
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonas Hunt &amp; Nancy Thomas
                  7-27-1816
                  7-30-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Van Buskirk &amp; Polly Hoff
                  7-27-1816
                  7-30-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq. p. 47
               
               
                  David T. Wyatt &amp; Nancy Hunt
                  7-27-1816
                  8-1-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq
               
               
                  John White &amp; Delilah Boswell
                  8-5-1816
                  8-12-1816
                  Henry Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  James Holtsclaw &amp; Thoda Asher
                  8-6-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Norris &amp; Sarah Brock
                  7-20-1816
                  7-25-1816
                  Rev. James Benfiel
               
               
                  Charles Waddell &amp; Selah Nutter
                  8-9-1816
                  8-22-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 48
               
               
                  Jacob Wilson &amp; Rachel Wilson
                  8-10-1816
                  8-15-1816
                  Rev. James Montgomery
               
               
                  William Martindale &amp; Naomi Hancock
                  6-17-1816
                  6-20-1816
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Erastus Virgil &amp; Sophia Hancock
                  6-17-1816
                  6-20-1816
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Elijah Mondon &amp; Jane Nixon
                  8-17-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Hall &amp; Polly Small
                  9-21-1816
                  9-22-1816
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq. p. 49
               
               
                  Stephen G. Hunt &amp; Caty Lamb
                  8-19-1816
                  8-22-1816
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James Jarret &amp; Peggy Blount
                  9-2-1816
                  9-4-1816
                  Richard Lewis, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathan Elliott &amp; Rachel Bunch
                  8-26-1816
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jesse Draper &amp; Delphina Davenport
                  9-4-1816
                  9-5-1816
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq.
               
               
               
                  William Boyd &amp; Polly Owens
                  10-10-1816
                  10-10-1816
                  John Nelson, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonathan Osborn &amp; Mary Morris
                  
                  11-18-1816
                  Abraham Elliott, Esq.
               
            
            INDEX OF NAMES4
            
            
               Adcock, Travis, 20
               Addington, Bishop, 43
               Addington, Joseph, 13
               Aker, Jacob, 27
               Albert, Polly, 44
               Alexander, Annie, 9
               Alexander, Benjamin, 9
               Alexander, Robert, 38
               Allen, John, 27
               Allen, Josiah, 27
               Allen, Rebecca, 38
               Andrew, Rutha, 3
               Ashby, Milton, 1
               Asher, Rhoda, 47
               Ashley, Elenor, 12
               Bailey, John, 21, 31
               Banks, Mary, 19, 23
               Barton, John, 40
               Beard, John, 44
               Beard, Martha, 37
               Beauchamp, Matthew, 29
               Bedwell, Anne, 10
               Bedwell, James, 25 (see also Bidwell)
               Beechamps, Ruf (Ross&#x003F;), 24 (see also Beauchamp)
               Beeler, Jacob, 4b
               Beeson, Isaac, 34
               Benbow, Mary, 46
               Benefiel, John, 30
               Benefiel, Robert, 16
               Berry, Joseph, 38
               Bidwell, Samuel, 29 (see also Bedwell)
               Biggs, John, 14
               Blount, Andrew, 41
               Blount, Peggy, 49
               Boles, Ephraim, 1
               Boroughs, John, 46 (see also Burris)
               Boswell, Delilah, 47
               Boswell, Jane, 17
               Bowles (see Boles)
               Boyd, Elizabeth, 39
               Boyd, William, 49
               Bradbury, John, 39
               Bradbury, Thomas, 4b
               Brady, Sarah, 38
               Briget, James, 38
               Brock, Sarah, 47
               Brook, Elijah, 7
               Brown, Caty, 7
               Brown, James, 2
               Brown, Jane, 20
               Brown, Thomas, 46
               Bryan, Henry, 32, 45
               Bulla, Rebecca, 12
               Bunch, Rachel, 49
               Bundy, Miriam, 44
               Burgess, Polly, 35
               Burk, Jesse, 32
               Burris, Maria, 44
               Burrough (see Boroughs, Burris)
               Butler, Hiram, 6
               Buzan, Wills, 43
               Byford, Margaret, 24
               Cain, Barbara, 2
               Cain, Betsy, 43
               Cain, John, 25
               Cain, Joseph, 3
               Cain, Rebekah, 4b
               Caldwell, Manlove, 25
               Cannada, (or Cannady), David, 37, 41
            
            
               
                  4 Page numbers refer to the page numbers in the "original" volume of
                        marriage records. Page 4b follows 5a; 5b follows 4b. Otherwise, the pages are numbered correctly
                        in the order in which they now appear in the original volume. Cross references have been made
                        and alternative spellings suggested when there was a question in the mind of the copyist.
            
            
            
               Case, Susannah, 37
               Chambers, Becky, 13
               Chambers, James, 20
               Chambers, Patsy, 46
               Chamness, Lydia, 43
               Charles, Sarah, 9
               Chryst, Elizabeth, 14
               Chryst, Mahala, 20
               Clark, Peggy, 4a
               Clawson, Abner, 46
               Clawson, Polly, 17
               Commons, William, 38
               Conn, Esther, 4b
               Connaway, Polly, 13
               Conner, William, 3
               Cook, Phebe, 37
               Cook, Thomas, 35
               Cowen, Abigail, 7
               Cox, Amy, 15
               Cox, Anne, 17
               Cox, Jeremiah, 3
               Cox, John, 26
               Crane, Esther, 25
               Craner, Joshua, 21
               Crawford, Jane, 32, 45
               Crist (see Chryst)
               Crumb, Caty, 36
               Crum, Rosanna, 36
               Davenport, Delphina, 49
               Davis, Cassey, 23
               Deake (Drake&#x003F;), Nancy, 5b
               Delinis, Elisha, 23
               Derham, Betsy, 19
               Dicks, Zachariah, 16
               Diggs, William, 27
               Dimit, Thomas, 22
               Dollarhide, Dicey, 18
               Dougherty, Nancy, 46
               Drake, John, 41 (see also Deake)
               Draper, Jesse, 49
               Drury, Arnold, 45
               Dunhen (Dunham, Durham&#x003F;),
               William, 27
               Dunman, William, 34
               Dunn, Silas, 39
               Durham (see Derham, Dunhen)
               Dwiggins, Jane, 32
               Edwards, Nancy, 36
               Eggers, Anne, 11
               Elliott, Aaron, 15
               Elliott, Griselda, 45
               Elliott, Nathan, 49
               Elliott, Rachel, 22
               Elston, Esther, 41
               Emil, Thomas, 23 (see also Imel)
               Endsley, Elizabeth, 6
               Endsley, Jenny, 8
               Esteb (Estep), Betsy, 7
               Fall, Agness, 8
               Fall, Esther, 9
               Farlow, John, 8
               Farlow, Mary, 28
               Farlow, Nathan, 18
               Farlow, William, 1
               Fielder, Patty, 3
               Fisher, Benjamin, 9
               Fisher, David, 5a, 36
               Fleming, Keziah, 8
               Fouts, Noah, 16
               Fraly (Fraley), Daniel, 44
               Frazier, William, 29
               Galbraith, William, 14
               Gallien, Jacob, 17
               Gallien, Thomas, 19
               Gallien, Sophia, 19
               Gallion, William, 28
               Garner, Laban, 21
               Garrett, Nathan, 23
               Gibson, Betty, 24
               Gilbert, Jonathan, 4a
               Gillom, William, 37
               Ginn, Job, 21
               Gordon, Anderson, 38
               Gossett, John, 28
               Gossett, William, 35
               Graham, Alexander, 22
               Gray, Elizabeth, 23
               Hageman, Charity, 35
               Hall, Samuel, 48
               Hancock, Naomi, 48
               Hancock, Sophia, 48
               Harlan, Nancy, 15
               Harman, David, 22
               Harris, Obediah, 4b
               Harris, Pleasant, 4a
               Harvey, Francis, 11
               Harvey, Isabella, 4a
               
               Harvey, Mary, 3
               Harvey, Robert, 26
               Harvey, Sarah, 27
               Harvey, William, 9
               Hatfield, Patsy, 10
               Hawkins, Margaret, 38
               Hendal (see Hindall)
               Henson, Sally, 13
               Higgins, Martha, 40
               Hill, Huldah, 5a
               Hill, Joel, 14
               Hindall, Christian, 40
               Hodges, Betsy M., 36
               Hoff, Peggy, 39
               Hoff, Polly, 47
               Hoff, Susanna, 22
               Hoggatt, Rutha, 1
               Holland, Elijah, 18
               Hollet, Kitty, 35
               Holman, Edward, 11
               Holman, James, 5a
               Holman, Patsy, 2
               Holtsclaw, James, 47
               Hoover, Caty, 34
               Hough (see Hoff)
               Huff (see Hoff)
               Hughs (Hughes&#x003F;), Thomas, 24
               Hunt, Caty, 4b
               Hunt, Edward, 6
               Hunt, Jonas, 46
               Hunt, Joseph, 8
               Hunt, Mary, 9
               Hunt, Nancy, 47
               Hunt, Smith, 6
               Hunt, Stephen G., 49
               Hunt, William, 34
               Hunt, William H., 7
               Hunter, William, 35
               Imel (Immel&#x003F;), George, 19 (see also Emil)
               Ireland, James, 5b
               Ireland, William, 9
               Ish, George, 29
               James, David, 32
               James, Lydia, 38
               Jarret, James, 49 (see also Garret&#x003F;)
               Jessop, Abraham, 3
               Jessup, Jacob, 23
               Johnston, John, 42
               Johnston, Susanna, 21
               Jones, Amos, 10
               Jones, John, 42
               Jones, Stephen, 10
               Jordan, Peggy, 5a
               Julian, Jacob, 3
               Julian, Renny (Rene), 44
               Kannada (see Cannada)
               Kelly, Sally, 3
               Kendall, Maria, 43
               Kennedy (see Cannada)
               Lamb, Betsey, 6
               Lamb, Caty, 49
               Lamb, Hannah, 24
               Lamb, Mehuldah, 28
               Lamb, Patsy, 31
               Lane, John, 36
               Leany (Seany&#x003F;), John, 37
               Leany (Seany&#x003F;), Susanna, 18
               Lewallen, Deborah, 10
               Lewis, Martha, 18
               Lewis, Thomas T., 31
               Lewis, Sally, 4b
               Lindley, Polly, 15
               Little, Huldah, 23
               Little, James, 18
               Little, Jane, 21
               Little, Joseph, 10
               Long, Rebecca, 40
               Louder (Sander&#x003F;), Nancy, 45
               McCalla, Hannah, 25
               McClain, John, 34 (see also McLean, McLane, McLain)
               McClelland, Polly, 29
               McCombs, John, 26
               McComus (McComis&#x003F;), Lydia, 29
               McGraw (McGrew&#x003F;), William, 40
               McHenry (McHerig&#x003F;), Parmela, 22
               McKee, Sally, 21
               McLain, Patsy, 14
               McLane, David, 12
               McLane, Thomas, 36
               McLean, Charlotte, 5b
               McLean, Henry, 4b (see also McClain)
               McNeal, Daniel, 42
               Manlove, Rachel, 30
               
               Marshall, John, 33
               Martin, James, 2
               Martin, John, 20
               Martin, Polly, 37
               Martin, Sally, 4a
               Martin, Samuel, 18
               Martindale, Elijah, 39
               Martindale, William, 48
               Mason, Thomas, 45
               Massay, Hannah, 4a
               Massay, Robert, 12
               Massey, Tense, 9
               Maxwell, James W., 8
               Maxwell, Polly, 5b
               Meek, Elenor, 31
               Meek, John, 24
               Meek, Joseph, 43
               Meek, Polly, 44
               Meek, Sally, 31, 40
               Meek, William, 2
               Mendenhall, Francis, 44
               Mendinghall, Rebecca, 29
               Miller, Anne, 42
               Miller, Betsey, 1
               Miller, Caty, 8
               Miller, Eve, 40
               Miller, Isaac, 37
               Miller, Mary, 27
               Miller, Peter, 6
               Miner, Benson, 7
               Miner, Elizabeth, 25
               Mires (Myers&#x003F;), John, 41
               Misor (Miser&#x003F;), Sally, 42
               Moffat (Moffit&#x003F;), Martha, 26
               Mondon (Mundin, Munden&#x003F;), Elijah, 48
               Montgomery, James, 5b
               Montgomery, Jane, 39
               Montgomery, John, 5b
               Montgomery, Mary, 16
               Moore, Miriam, 35
               Moore, Sally, 26
               Moorman, Susanna, 20
               Morgan, Rebecca, 13
               Morris, Mary, 49
               Munden (see Mondon)
               Murphey, Albert, 14
               Murphy, Lydia, 39
               Myers (see Mires)
               Nail, Caleb, 42
               Nelson, Betsy, 16
               Nelson, Phebe, 16
               Nixon, Jane, 48
               Nixon, John, 44
               Noland, Lydia, 20
               Norris, Thomas, 47
               Nutter, Lovina, 11
               Nutter, Selah, 48
               Odell, Elizabeth, 31
               Osborn, Jonathan, 49
               Overman, Joseph, 5a
               Overman, Reuben, 36
               Owens, Polly, 49
               Pearson, Charlotta, 44
               Pemberton, Joseph, 12
               Petre, Elizabeth, 6
               Petre, Mary, 28
               Philips, William, 28
               Plummer, Caroline, 14
               Plummer, John, 4a
               Plummer, Sally, 41
               Porter, Polly, 17
               Potter, Nancy, 33
               Powel, John, 39
               Purviance, Levi, 5a
               Rambo, Damaris, 18
               Rambo, Eliza, 34
               Rash, William, 11
               Ready, Catherine, 12
               Ready, Elizabeth, 9
               Reed, Zillah, 32
               Resbuk (&#x003F;), Polly, 9
               Resbuck (&#x003F;), Polly, 5a
               Ridge, Rebecca, 21
               Rinard, George, 12
               Ring, Jinny (Jennie&#x003F;), 10
               Ring, Patsy, 37, 41
               Roberts, Jesse, 15
               Rue, Miriam, 11
               Rue, Nancy, 1
               Rutledge, Benjamin, 31
               Sailors, Thomas, 37
               Scanland, Polly, 28
               Scofield, Orr, 43
               Seany (see Leany)
               Shaver (Shover&#x003F;), Sally, 38
               Shelley (Shelby&#x003F;), Joseph, 15
               
               Shortridge, George, 22
               Shortridge, Jesse, 36
               Shortridge, Sally, 42, 45
               Shover (Shaver&#x003F;), Elizabeth, 27
               Small, Polly, 48
               Smith, John, 7, 40
               Smith, Julia Elmira (Gulyelma&#x003F;), 43
               Smith, Matilda, 34
               Smith, Peggy, 2
               Snider, Elizabeth, 11
               Snider, Michael, 27
               Spencer, Jane, 36
               Spencer, Joseph, 10
               Spencer, Michael, 25
               Spencer, William, 29
               Stanley, Eunice, 29
               Stanley, Rachel, 25
               Stephenson, Elizabeth, 5b
               Stephenson, Joseph, 4a
               Stephenson, Sally, 5b
               Stevenson, Rachel, 2
               Stump, John, 42
               Stump, Leonard, 45
               Summers, John, 15
               Summers, Nancy, 27
               Sumner, Abigail, 26
               Sutherland, Anna, 42
               Sutherland, John, 20
               Sutton, Sally, 7
               Tatem, James, 13
               Taylor, James, 5b
               Taylor, James W., 9
               Thomas, Hannah, 30
               Thomas, Nancy, 46
               Thompson, Francis, 27
               Thornbrough (Thornburg), Sarah, 26
               Townsend, Jonathan, 17
               Trimble, Daniel, 13
               Tyner, James, 32
               Van Buskirk, Joseph, 47
               Verdemon, Morgan, 10
               Vestal, Jemima, 16
               Virgil, Erastus, 48
               Waddell, Charles, 48
               Waddell, James, 17
               Waddell, Robert, 11
               Walker, Elizabeth V., 10
               Walker, Ellenor Blair, 13
               Walker, Rebecca, 22
               Wallace, Elizabeth, 23
               Wallace, John, 19, 23
               Walls, Matthew, 2
               Warren, James, 19
               Warren, Sally, 41
               Warren, Tabitha, 19
               Watson, Betsy, 32
               Watson, William, 1
               Way, Anna, 42
               Way, Charlotte, 27
               Way, Henry, 30
               Way, Mary, 7
               West, Thomas, 46
               White, Betsy, 46
               White, James, 17
               White, John, 47
               White, Polly, 1
               White, Susanna, 34
               White, Usley (Ursula&#x003F;), 24
               White, William, 26
               Whitehead, John, 7
               Whitinger, Rosanna, 14
               Whitman, Jacob, 28
               Williams, Elizabeth, 15
               Williams, Phebe, 30
               Williams, Polly, 12
               Wilson, Griner, 13
               Wilson, Jacob, 48
               Wilson, Morgan, 31
               Wilson, Rachel, 48
               Wilson, Robert, 5b
               Wisehart, Mary Ann, 29
               Wood, George W., 8
               Wood, John, 13
               Woodkuk, Peggy, 6
               Woods, Sophia, 5a
               Woodward, Asabel, 35
               Worl, Robert, 30
               Wright, Eli, 16
               Wright, Ralph, 24
               Wright, Hannah, 3
               Wyatt, David T., 47
            
         
      
      
   
