
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 55, Issue 3, pages 209-322. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:55+issue:3+year:1959&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            So Well Remembered
            
                    George W. Busbey
                    *
                
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—JANUARY
            
            January was the shining month. It was cold, austere, transparent, yet of great power and depth. It
                    was impersonal, it was just, it rewarded without warmth and punished without rancor. If one were
                    careless, or heedless of its positive warnings, one suffered; if one conceded its sovereignty, one
                    might derive sound rewards, the more pleasing for the effort required. Its snowdrifts were profound,
                    exquisite, chaste, and in some cases, punitive, but never aggressively so. January was; as a diamond was, or a star. It was also a challenge.
            
               
                  * George William Busbey was born July 15, 1901, on a small
                        upland farm in 
                            Madison
                         Township, 
                            Putnam County
                        , Indiana. He began his elementary schooling at Oakalla, which was a stop on the Big Four—
                            New York
                         Central Railroad until 1906 when it was abandoned because of a change in route.
                        While George was yet a young boy, he and his family moved to 
                            Brazil
                         and thence to a farm six miles east of 
                            Brazil
                        . Here he completed his elementary schooling at a country school; he went on to 
                            Brazil
                         High School and was graduated in 1918. Fifth District Congressman Everett Sanders,
                        later secretary to President Calvin Coplidge, recommended Busbey for an appointment at the 
                            United States
                         Military Academy, West Point, from which he graduated in 1924. His army career
                        (1924–1954) has included significant service in various capacities in the
                                
                     United States, England
                  , Europe, and 
                            Paraguay
                        . Now retired, Colonel Busbey resides at Grass Valley, 
                            California
                        . Colonel Busbey's grandmother, Hannah Boone Busbey, was a granddaughter of
                        Squire 
                            Boone
                        , Daniel's brother. While growing up in 
                            Putnam County
                        , George spent much time doing farm chores, hunting and fishing, and in roaming the
                        woods. Even so, he adds that he found time to "read anything and everything
                        available." Colonel Busbey's recollections offer vivid descriptions of life in 
                            Putnam County
                        , Indiana, during the early years of the twentieth century. His recollections
                        indicate and illustrate the prolonged and substantial persistence of various processes and the
                        tradition of pioneer self-sufficiency in Indiana. The essays which follow were originally
                        intended to be published as a book dedicated to the author's mother, "whose
                        faith never faltered."
            
            
            Inextricably woven into my memory of January's cold white tapestry is Oakalla and its little
                    white schoolhouse. And rightly so, for had there been no Oakalla there would have been no school for
                    a beautiful dark-haired young lady with incredibly lovely hands to come and teach and board with my
                    father's sister. And, unlike the beguilement practiced on Jacob and Rachel, after only
                    seven years of waiting and working, she became my father's wife and in due time, my mother.
            Woven into my memory, too, are minor tribulations repetitiously inflicted in my weekdays which began
                    with a lamp-lighted, unenthusiastic partaking of breakfast, progressed through arbitrary bundling
                    into cap, muffler, overcoat, and heavy two-buckle arctic overshoes, to a cold-enforced brisk pace
                    from the front door toward the public road leading westward to school.
            My grizzled, hernia-hampered, short-tempered grandfather insisted against all skeptical opposition
                    that his bowlegs came from carrying too many books to school, thereby implying some sympathy with my
                    own reluctance to further my education. He negated much of the assistance, however, by insisting
                    just as firmly that he had often skated on the ice all day barefooted! No one paid much attention to
                    his two claims, but since they belittled the cold, and basis of my chief overt argument, I shivered
                    forlornly into the frigid day.
            But because of the mighty drifts which refused to pack in sub-zero temperatures, walking was a series
                    of flounderings which quickly tired my legs, made my heart pound, and forced me to breathe deeply
                    the bitterly cold air. In no time at all, I was sweating under my clothes even as tears from my
                    cold-and-snow tortured eyes froze on my cheeks or dripped from my already running nose. The half
                    mile to school seemed at least four times that long in January, and the morning and evening trips
                    were metaphorical millstones which ground me exceeding fine before Spring came North again.
            Oakalla is a name almost unknown today, but until 1906 it was a flag stop on the Big Four railway
                    beside Walnut Creek, complete with store, switches, station, telegraph and ticket office, and a home
                    for the operator and his family. Its reason for existence included two limestone quarries and the
                    families whose men worked therein; also, it was the focus of most of the neighborhood's
                    interests.
            
            Not yet reduced in importance by the interurban line, and much closer than the Vandalia's
                    shipping point at Hamrick's Station or the Limedale Junction, Oakalla and its railroad
                    enjoyed a long period of leisurely monopoly of all things beyond the proper sphere of animal-drawn
                    freight or passenger traffic. Now it is a ghost, existing only in the memories of a few old
                    residents or of expatriates like myself who have drifted far and yet clung tenaciously to fragments
                    of their Indiana childhood.
            The Oakalla school consisted of an entry hall with cloakrooms on either side and a large room nearly
                    full of single desks. There were several small windows in the east wall, two in the
                    north—one to each cloakroom—and large ones along the entire south side of the
                    room from a height of four feet to the ceiling. When one was seated, it was impossible to see the
                    nearby ground through them, but they gave lots of light and afforded a fine view of wooded hills and
                    sky. That is, they did when their long curtains were not raised to shut out the southern sun. When
                    they were raised, everyone in the room seemed to be floating in a pale tan liquid between the west
                    wall blackboard and the short-range glare from the small windows in the east.
            A huge, unpolished stove occupied space in the center of the room, where, when the draft was opened,
                    it scorched the clothes and hides of those unfortunate enough to sit near it but rendered fairly
                    comfortable the peripheral band. Conversely, when the draft was closed, those nearest relaxed
                    somnolently or wriggled sensuously, depending upon whether or not they were reciting, while the
                    outer-space denizens huddled in chilly immobility, silent except for the castanet chattering of
                    their teeth. Perhaps of all months January marked my period of greatest book learning; there were no
                    holidays or distractions within and few enticements without. Therefore, we studied and I learned
                    well enough two of the three R's—the third, "ritin',"
                    eluded me then and thereafter.
            That was not a painless elusion, either, for a certain Mr. Henry Carpenter, pedagogue, and probably
                    descended from Ichabod Crane, was so harassed by my mother that he in turn harassed me into overtime
                    copybook labor—all of which did not improve my penmanship one whit, but it did engender
                    in me such a rebellious attitude that a sound caning  was the
                    result. Nor did he cane me with good honest hickory switches with which the neighborhood abounded,
                    but, instead and inexcusably, used some red elm kindling which a rascally supervisor had foisted on
                    the taxpayers! The kindling was sawed, square-edged, and left imposing welts on my backside and legs
                    which came to maternal notice during my Saturday night bath and evoked sufficient questions to
                    elicit the whole sorry story.
            Half hopefully, I thought the family might rally behind me and demand the discharge of the sadistic
                    Mr. Carpenter, but the reverse was the case. Sadly, I recall that it was touch-and-go for several
                    hours as to whether or not I should receive another whipping for insubordination to the master. Like
                    January, the schoolmaster was; he was also a challenge, but one that I did not
                    meet successfully.
            A little later, as years go—but the end of a biological cycle in a boy's
                    life—I was ten years old and living in a different county on a larger farm cut by a
                    smaller creek which became intimately my own. Like every other facet of January, the creek impressed
                    upon me the lesson that January is of great power, under perfect control, a latent, impersonal
                    danger, but not an offensive one.
            Sheltered by high bluffs, Croy's Creek ran shallow and straight over near-level shale. And
                    like yellowish-olive, dark-blotched exclamation points on a slate, Hypentelium
                        nigricans, the common hog sucker, lay without pattern beneath the unflawed ice. Who first
                    discovered the fact I do not know, but it was common knowledge that, after a few heavy blows on the
                    ice above them, it was possible to chop a hole and lift out the temporarily stunned fish. Hog
                    suckers, unlike other suckers, were practically boneless and considered excellent at table.
            That particular portion of Croy's Creek was one of the finest stretches of skating ice in
                    the country in the daytime. And it would have been delightful at night, too, had it not been for a
                    few lurking rocks which barely penetrated the ice and required daylight to insure avoidance. It was
                    almost incredible to one who had never tried it to learn how far a fast skater could travel through
                    the air when one of his blades happened to strike one of those traps in the nighttime.
            Far better was Mogan's Pond, deep, easily accessible from the highway, yet pleasantly
                    secluded by scrub oak and  sassafras. Seen from above, it
                    closely resembled a tadpole with an unrealistically long tail, and although it lay in a sharply
                    sloping depression, the last few feet before the water-line were almost level, thereby providing
                    fine space for bonfires and general gregariousness. With a good fire, a full moon, and a package of
                    Favorite cigarettes, the older boys made do excellently.
            If there were girls present, the boys did even better, with songs and cross-hand skating far down to
                    the tadpole's tail beyond the firelight's glow. This, I then considered pretty
                    silly; but in viewing it with the more tolerant eyes of retrospect, I concede that it may have been
                    an acceptable variant of plain skating. I envied them the Favorites, though, and thought the aroma
                    superior.
            January always seemed interminable, a challenge and a purification. Probably there is some deep
                    reason why so many of our evening meals consisted mostly of huge bowls of clabber or of steamed
                    bread, buttered and sugared heavily, and eaten silently in a dining room chilly despite a roaring
                    fire of maple chunks in the big Estate Oak heater, while outside trees cracked in the frigid night
                    and frost encrusted thickly the tight-shut windows. January was:
            
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—FEBRUARY
            
            Like a child of severely austere parents, long inhibited from normal expressions of feeling, February
                    usually began as a colorless extension of January. But, as if suddenly orphaned and released from
                    restraint, its behavior became unpredictable, ranging from bleak to effusively
                    charming—often back to bleak again, fearful of its unaccustomed freedom. Affected by the
                    whimsicality of the month, people, too, figuratively kicked up their heels like colts in pasture.
                    The February Thaw was both physical and psychic. It gave us maple syrup, maple sugar, sassafras tea,
                    pork tenderloin, liverwurst, fresh sausage, and sometimes spring beauties.
            In 1906 the Big Four Railway altered its route, thereby depriving my grandfather of his chief source
                    of entertainment, or irritation, when trains failed to pass on schedule. His loss was my gain for
                    the construction superintendent  had a daughter who, on one of
                    the infrequent perfect Sundays, was brought to Sunday School at the old Mount Olive Church. After
                    one unbelieving look at her tiny perfection, I appropriated the space at her side on the hard old
                    bench and gazed enthralled at her lovely cheek until the very intensity of my look caused her to
                    turn her face toward me. Simultaneously, the blessed sun poured pale gold into her flaxen curls and
                    did magic things to the delphinium blue of her eyes. Perhaps I did not know all those words then,
                    but I certainly knew the music. Instinctively, my right arm went round her neck and rested in
                    ecstatic naturalness on her shoulders while angels and cherubims hummed round our heads in
                    benediction. Her name was Ruth, and we were not quite six years old.
            Thus, I shared the general February giddiness on special occasions, and several mores usually
                    appertaining to it were of paramount interest and intense pleasure to me. Specifically, holidays and
                    hog killing. Technically, there was one holiday, one day of general note, one of general observance
                    by means short of quitting work, and one of vital interest to everyone. 
                        Lincoln
                    's birthday received only token, yet respectful, attention, but we made much of
                    Saint Valentine's Day, devoting considerable time, ingenuity, and occasional artistry to
                    the manufacture of confections from wallpaper and allied materials. Skilled use of scissors, flour
                    paste, and various scraps of ribbon, gilt paper, as well as dashes of perfume frequently produced a
                    tender missive which eventually set many a nubile maiden up in housekeeping.
            
               
                        Washington
                    's birthday called for a school recess, ever a season and reason for rejoicing,
                    but all these fiesta days were insignificant in import compared with the universally anticipated and
                    fearfully viewed Ground Hog's Day. If there were heretics in the neighborhood who doubted
                    the accuracy of its prediction, they wisely kept silent. In a predominantly Republican area, Teddy
                    Roosevelt was sacred; Democrats and skeptics concerning Ground Hog's Day, planting by moon
                    phases, and the efficacy of sassafras tea as a salubrious springtime blood thinner did not flaunt
                    their ignorance publicly.
            And there was butcherin'! Man is the strangest animal. To him there is nothing inconsistent
                    but consistency. He can compose a sonnet of ineffable delicacy with hands still dripping  blood and foul with gut filth! I submit that few vegetarians have ever
                    accomplished anything of lasting value to humanity; to do that requires meat.
            And meat we had. Admitting that we had killed a hog in November, we justified the act by saying it
                    was mostly for soap-making and just a small hog, anyway. In February, we butchered! Not one, but eight or nine slowly fattened and conditioned pigs weighing about two
                    hundred and fifty pounds each. My family favored a dual purpose hog which gave a generous amount of
                    lard yet had excellent lean hams and acceptable bacon.
            According to custom, and because of their acknowledged skill in such matters, father and grandfather
                    did much of the meat cutting throughout the neighborhood. As a result, that neighborhood had a cut,
                    well-known then, never encountered nowdays in meat markets. It was a backstrap of tenderloin, a foot
                    or more long, and about three by four inches in cross section. For years, the Oak Restaurant in 
                        Brazil
                    , Indiana, specialized in tenderloin sandwiches at the standard price of five cents, one
                    nickel, the twentieth part of a dollar. O tempora, O mores! If there be a finer morsel I want to
                    know, and go.
            Before dawn, my insomnolent grandfather had a fire going under several big, black iron kettles of
                    water. Assisted by one or two stout neighbors, we started our hog killing shortly after first light.
                    According to my earliest remembrances, my father, a very strong man, used to knock the victims
                    efficiently in the head with the head of a single bit axe. There was never a squeal or a delay in
                    demise and, I am sure, there was no pain. The corollary throat cutting was utilitarian and equally
                    painless. In later years it became routine to shoot the porker with a .22 short ica'tridge
                    in father's squirrel rifle, and then I learned the immutable rule: shoot a hog high, and a
                    calf low—a bit of information which served me no useful purpose thereafter, so far as I
                    can remember.
            There followed the scalding of the hogs in a barrel of near-boiling water, the scraping to remove all
                    hair, the hanging on gambrel sticks for gutting and thorough cooling—during which time
                    hearts, livers, feet, and heads were carried to the kitchen for the womenfolks to process into
                    headcheese, liverwurst, and pickled pigsfeet. Much of this was kept for  home consumption, but there was always a surplus which grandfather
                    liked to hand-carry to one or two saloons on the North Side—he always capitalized on
                    these visits in conversation or letters to imply a certain disreputability—where it was
                    in annual demand for the free lunch counter. For the enlightment of the young, free lunch was a
                    delightful institution, regrettably vanished with the era of the one hundred cent dollar, yellow
                    backed twenty dollar bills, and five cent beer.
            Butcherin' night was devoted to cutting and hanging, the day following to cutting lard fat,
                    grinding—and occasionally to stuffing—sausage, into which father put lots of
                    sage and considerable cayenne pepper. Also, during the afternoon, the lard fat, cut into one-inch
                    cubes, was put into one of the black iron kettles and tried out. The liquid, poured into various
                    sized crocks and jars, quickly solidified into its final state, but the solid portions remaining in
                    the kettle were put into a lard press and squeezed to cracklings.
            Cracklings were variously used for crackling bread, dog feed, or just for nibbling between meals. The
                    cocktail hour with its fried grasshoppers, antipasto from 
                        Italy
                    , hors d'oeuvres from 
                        France
                    , and Smorgasbord tidbits from Scandinavia, with its seven-to-one martinis, sub-freezing
                    vodka or akvavit had not—and probably still has not—invaded 
                        Putnam County
                    . What we did have was sassafras tea.
            
               Sassafras variifolium vied with wild blackberry briers, ragweed, and cockleburs as
                    a farmer's worst enemy. In fence rows and cutover land, in sour pasture land, in ungrazed
                    corners, it flourished and created in a few years almost impenetrable thickets. When cut, it
                    sprouted prodigiously; when burned, it throve the more. Drought and flood alike were its sponsors,
                    and only sheep or goats cared to eat it. But in February, sassafras became the universal panacea for
                    all ills resulting from a winter of heavy meat eating. It thinned the blood—so spake the
                    sages, and none of my acquaintance disputed it.
            For the hoi polloi, those who bought the makings in a grocery store, roots of the red sassafras or
                    even small chips and blocks from sizable sticks provided something which, when boiled or infused in
                    very hot water, produced a dark reddish tea, aromatic and slightly astringent on the tongue. For the
                    initiate and those who owned their own sources, there  was what
                    we called the yellow sassafras, a large tree with widespreading branches, rare and highly prized.
                    From its new roots a superfine tea was brewed. When we moved from my grandfather's home to
                    land of our own, we were forced to abandon our one prized yellow sassafras tree and, regrettably,
                    had to use roots from some large red sassafras trees. These made far better tea than grocery store
                    trash but not nearly so good as our former gourmet infusion.
            With our blood properly thinned, we endured February's growing pains with equanimity spiced
                    toward month's-end by anticipation of March's entry—Lion or Lamb, that
                    was the question.
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—MARCH
            
            March was the gamblers' month, the month when urchins pitched pennies at ubiquitous cracks
                    and staid old carpenters suddenly engaged in saw-filing contests, or stopped to play marbles with
                    their grandchildren, or…over-indulged in bock beer. March raised the annual sweepstakes
                    question: Will it enter with a blustering roar, painful but safer in reality than a mealy-mouthed
                    simulation of February's thaw? Or, will a dissimulating lamb breathe unseasonable warmth
                    and beguilement until silly fruits bud and blossom, only to be heartlessly ruined by a late deep
                    frost? It could be either, and not even the most cynical old sage was immune to the lure of trying
                    to guess which.
            For there was intoxication in the sight of dandelion gold by the roadside after months of drabness;
                    tonic, also, in greens from curly dock, pokeberry shoots, and wild mustard. Many a family, dauncy
                    from a winter of fried pork and hot bread was tided over to garden sass by the greens of March.
            A mystifying indetermination to me was whether or not March would bring Easter or whether, for some
                    obscure reason, I must wait until April—April which was already sufficiently blessed.
                    Easter in March was better for several reasons. In the first place, chickens had finished their
                    moult and were laying prolifically, thereby permitting easier accomplishment of a game peculiar to
                    that part of Indiana, the stealing and hiding of a large number of eggs.
            
            The origin of the custom is unknown to me; the practice is as impossible to justify as the hoarding
                    of light bread, for the idea of denying any youngster as many eggs as he might desire would have
                    been as unlikely as failing to milk the cows. Still, we stole them with a skill worthy of a better
                    cause and hid them, manifesting much ingenuity. Sometimes too much, as when one boy hid three dozen
                    amid the interior gears of a little-used, hand-operated corn sheller, with spectacular results when
                    his father innocently decided to shell a few ears of corn to supplement the calf ration.
            It is probably a sign of senescence, if not of downright senility, to comment that today's
                    children seem to lack the ability to find satisfying entertainment within themselves by using only
                    minor props. Call your friendly psychiatrist if you will, but during one March Eastertide, one of my
                    young friends and I found day-long entertainment in pretending to be a pair of crows. Our visual
                    aids were two crow legs with which, by manipulating exposed tendons, we were able to pick up small
                    objects and fly—metaphorically speaking—to our nest. Today's children
                    would doubtless regard such goings-on as prima facie evidence of idiocy and, of course, they might
                    be right. But we were happy in our harmless folly and…it didn't cost our parents
                    a cent!
            I cannot say that gossip was nonexistent in our neighborhood but it was seldom that children
                    participated, or even heard it. One notable exception comes to my mind, however. I can recall
                    spattering happily home from a visit with my favorite playmate on a raw March afternoon and
                    announcing in a clear and ringing tone that, "Johnny's mother made his father
                    sleep in the barn last night!" The effect was about the same as if I had brought an irate
                    skunk into the kitchen. Thereafter, I kept my gems to myself, but I often wondered why the lady did
                    it.
            Juvenile delinquency may have existed—may even have burgeoned—but in our
                    neighborhood it usually died a-borning on the rough side of a red elm club. Parents were mostly busy
                    folk, impatient of innovation and interruption alike, especially those of immature conception. In
                    spite of our early handicaps, my generation produced middlin' good citizens who muddled
                    acceptably through two world wars and launched the atomic age; there may be two schools of thought
                    as to the value of our achievements, though.
            
            A lot of elderly sages reckoned their longevity by March; succinctly put, the rule was: If I live
                    through March, I always last out the year. They often had threescore years, and more, to prove their
                    point. During March, sorghum began to become unpleasantly grainy, strange dogs drifted through our
                    back-lands, grandfather came home from a Saturday afternoon in 
                        Greencastle
                     smelling like a cross between our apple bin and a hot mince pie—much to the
                    disapproval of the distaff side of the family—and ordinarily amenable livestock went on
                    fence breaking junkets into the wilderness beyond our north boundary, motivated by Aries and his
                    ilk.
            From time to time there were outstanding events, such as when a premature flooding of Big Walnut
                    Creek breached the Big Four right of way's levees and sent trackwalkers swinging lanterns
                    along the grade the whole night long. This occurrence stimulated the hidebound pedagogue of Oakalla
                    school to such coltish disregard of schedules as to take the entire student body down to observe the
                    swirling torrent. Sometimes, in a nostalgic dream I hear again the treble whistle of
                    Yesterday's freight engines, slogging with many a sanded slip up the long grade toward 
                        Greencastle
                    .
            Summing up, I cannot think of a single essential concerning March, save Easter, yet I would not
                    eliminate a day of it. Wasn't there a song which said: "You may have been a
                    headache but you never were a bore"?
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—APRIL
            
            It is raining on my roof. I glance instinctively at a splotch on the ceiling, where last year a
                    steady drip plinked a tune in the tin can below and nagged me unmercifully to take more permanent
                    remedial action. My thoughts go back.
            I awoke after an all night April rain to find my father unaccountably absent. Reluctantly toying with
                    my oatmeal, heavily loaded with rich Jersey cream, I questioned mother repeatedly as to his
                    whereabouts, receiving absent-minded answers as she hurried about endless household chores. Even
                    less satisfactory were the grunts I got from my grandfather, who, wedged in a window corner of the
                    kitchen glaring fiercely at the latest edition of the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Weekly  Banner, was alternately damning some
                    idiocy of the Democrat party and the poor quality of his spectacles, looking for all the world like
                    a grizzled old ground hog grumbling at the mouth of its burrow. Only my grandmother, soft-voiced and
                    patient from sixty years of birthings, buryings, and eternal questionings of children, gave me
                    comfort by her warm assurance that father would be home d'reckly,
                    probably bringing something nice. Relieved, I hugged her tightly and wandered outside, repeating her
                    words soundlessly under my breath.
            In that part of Indiana, directly was always d'reckly, and the term
                    carried no implication of immediate action. Rather, it could be translated as: "in a few
                    minutes," "after a while," or, "when I get through with what I
                    am doing." D'reckly was a good word. It filled a lamentable gap in the language
                    and gave considerable leeway to a small boy too busy to comply with an order but too young for
                    disobedience to be tolerated. It was polite, noncommittal, and handy as an alligator wrench.
            At mid-morning father appeared, wet to his knees, moving with customary soundlessness around the
                    corner of the woodshed. His hat was pushed back and his face wore that blank expression of innocence
                    which ever betokened triumph after some episode for which Dad felt a little necessity for
                    justification. Farmers didn't wander off on casual junkets just because it
                    rained—not when there was harness to mend, tools to sharpen, sagging gates to rehang, and
                    a thousand other things ever waiting the master's hand.
            But, there was one thing which could justify a trip afield, whatever the weather and however many
                    tasks clamored for attention. When I saw that father was carrying an article locally termed a nickel
                    basket, and gazed bug-eyed at its heaping contents, I knew without question that father had been
                    fixin' fence. To give support to the deduction, I noted that a pair of wire pliers, a
                    hammer handle, and a brown paper bag of what must have been steeples protruded
                    from, or bulged, appropriate pockets of his blue overalls, but the basket's load proved the
                    point, for it was full of musharoons!
            
            And none of your store boughten little buttons, nurtured in cellars, bereft of the light of day and,
                    for my money, bereft of most everything else bare edibility; but morels! Beautiful, succulent,
                    miraculous morels! Mushrooms, you say? Well, all right, mushrooms if you must, but those Indiana
                    musharoons were better.
            
            Mother was orally congratulatory, grandmother smiled placidly, her belief confirmed, father was
                    complacent, and even grandfather emitted a commendatory grunt, after he had lifted the stove lid and
                    half-quenched the kitchen fire with an enormous phrrrt of ambeer, before pulling out his knife and
                    demanding that all and sundry get busy with the cleaning. Me? I was tickled pink.
            And so we distributed ourselves variously around the basket and two big dishpans of water from the
                    cistern, gently lifted the musharoons from basket to water to slosh them back and forth to remove
                    what, in another milieu, might have been termed extraneous matter, before splitting them down the
                    middle, rewashing, and laying them on clean dish-towels to absorb the surplus water. In the amiable
                    confusion, father made his escape, perhaps to fix some more fence.
            But there were no absentees when we sat down to dinner—at noon, of
                    course—around the old oval drop-leaf table that had solidly borne the burden of tons of
                    the finest food ever produced in a county where fine food and finer cooking had been too commonplace
                    for comment ever since the Boone boys barbecued the first buck haunch over a bed of split hickory
                    coals beside the limestone cave which represented one of the terrors and delights of my childhood.
            Dipped in flour, salted and peppered lightly, the musharoons were popped into black iron skillets
                    full of bubbling bacon fat to change their pallid surfaces into crinkle-edged, convolute morsels of
                    varying shades of gold and brown, comparable to but different from pan-fried chicken. With a
                    multiple-holed skimmer, they were lifted for a moment to allow the surplus fat to drain, then heaped
                    on a giant ironware platter and set, crisp and beautiful to the eye, before our drooling faces.
            My eyes oscillated back and forth like the eyes of a spectator at a ping-pong match as the grown
                    folks filled their plates so bountifully that it seemed there would never be enough for me. But
                    there always was, and when, with nose and lips quivering like a rabbit's, I bit through the
                    hot outer crust, and tongue and brain were one in pronouncing the flavor almost unbearably
                    delicious—well, there just wasn't anything appropriate to say or do, except eat
                    more musharoons.
            
            Reluctantly, I have adopted the accepted spelling, m-u-s-h-r-o-o-m, in the interests of harmony and
                    to avoid adding further to a widespread reputation for eccentricity, but it still sounds wrong. I
                    know that the mushrooms I refer to are of the species properly known as morels, or Morchella esculenta, of the genus Ascomycete, and that is all right for
                    definition among the intelligentsia. By any name, they are the finest thing of their kind on
                    earth—better than fried catfish, and a little ahead of abalone.
            Morel hunting is an art and a joy forever. To penetrate their miraculous camouflage and locate a
                    productive spot is a rewarding triumph that never grows old. Morels look like nothing
                    else—except Gyromitra esculenta, an inferior though edible cousin never
                    found in morel country—and it seems incredible that at least fifty attempts of mine to
                    paint a clear word picture of them have resulted in flat failures, a few near fist fights, numerous
                    shattered illusions, and an abiding loss of self-confidence in my ability to describe anything more
                    difficult than a game of bean bag.
            I remember one man who had both a Phi Beta Kappa key and a master's degree in anthropology
                    and who listened intently while I told him that a morel looked, in silhouette, like a small tree;
                    that it varied in color from moist grey through the various shades of ivory to rich brown; that the
                    hollow stem was large in proportion to the top and that the top itself was deeply convoluted.
                    Finally, I told him that morels bore no resemblance to the ordinary button, or umbrella shaped,
                    champignons commonly found in luxury markets or smothering five dollar steaks. To make the
                    description still clearer, I drew him a pretty good sketch of several typical morel forms. He
                    listened with apparent intelligence, thought deeply for a while, and then sighed before shaking his
                    head and murmuring, "But how do you tell them from toadstools?"
            Now if I were sure that a man could tell a morel from a moron, and if I couldn't go with him
                    to fix a bit of fence, I would advise him to wait until late April rains had turned Indiana into a
                    green-and-limestone paradise before sallying forth on his quest. Then, I would tell him to seek out
                    a few abandoned apple orchards where the sod grew thick and inviting under his feet, or a place
                    where May apples opened their parasols on southern slopes, or a spot under the greater shade of a
                    giant elm where cow tracks cut deep in squidgy  black loam, or a
                    lightly wooded pasture where old stumps drowsed like turtles amid scrubby second growth walnut and
                    oak. And then, as he set out on the great adventure, I would damn the two broken legs which bind me
                    to my bed and mourn for my vanished youth.
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—MAY
            
            There was a time when if I entered a certain club in Berlin, the orchestra would stop whatever it was
                    playing and swing softly into "Drei Rote Rosen," a nostalgic bit
                    of torch made for low-ceilinged, smoke-blued rooms where friends sipped Asbach Uralt brandy or
                    quaffed endless saucers of fine champagne from bottles still bearing the ironical legend: "Reserviert Fuer Wehrmacht," forgetting for a little space the
                    hate-filled past and the uncharted future. And deep in my memory, impossible ever to forget, lies
                    the haunting, hopeless, fatalistic resignation of the final words: "Und einmal wird es
                    wieder Mai…und fast so schoen wie einst…."—And once again
                    it will be May…and almost as beautiful as it was once….
            Almost as beautiful as it was once! Even when I was a very small boy, May was so wonderful that it
                    hurt a little, and each succeeding year it brought added poignance to torture me exquisitely. For
                    the February thaw, which started sap moving in the sugar maples and even sometimes brought out
                    spring beauties on sheltered southern slopes, was but a delusive preview of things to come. March
                    held little to tighten the throat or mist the eye. And April, for all her morels and fence
                    fixin' days when the soft chuckle of split hickory flames gently applauded the easy talk of
                    my home folks around the kitchen stove and the smell of wet earth and drying clothes snuggled into
                    the folds of my brain forever and ever…April, I say, was still a greensick girl when her
                    beautiful sister arrived.
            May was a birthing sort of month. She swelled and burgeoned and proliferated into incredible
                    fecundity, yet managed to keep her figure and virginal aspect. Nor is my conception provincial. And
                    I submit in testimony that, while it is remotely conceivable that there may sometime not be  an 
                        England
                    , there will never be a month so inherently part of the British life, letters, and loves
                    as that selfsame May. From Chaucer to Browning—yea, even all the later
                    lutes—find me an one who sings not of May entwined with life and love, and I'll
                    give you odds that he be not British!
            At my home, there was work afoot, it is true, yet it was never onerous. It was, on the contrary,
                    satisfying, communal, and almost choral. There was concerted harmony in the voices about me, each
                    with its theme or counterpoint, euphonious with the clink of spades on alien rocks, with thud of
                    hoe's heel on recalcitrant clod, or the slurp of water in a sprinkling can. Music, too, in
                    the steady plod of the plow team, or the staid old mare pulling a single shovel plow in true lines
                    down our garden's length to make a bed for started plants to come.
            And, because of the universal feeling of comfortable fatigue from long days of plowing and planting,
                    grandfather decreed that we sample the first of our slowly smoked February hams. With hot biscuits,
                    red or flour gravy, fried potatoes, and the wealth of jams, fruit butters, jellies, and syrups which
                    always loaded our table, the delicately flavored ham slices were a joy to the eye and a blessing to
                    the tongue. As an added attraction, grandmother sometimes opened a jar of sausage cakes, redolent of
                    sage and hair-raising from the cayenne pepper which father had added with a heavy hand. We relished
                    our victuals on those days!
            Quite logically, May in her parturient fervor gave us little of immediate use or edibility, but on
                    every side could be seen the plethora of tomorrow. Cymose white flowers had given way to embryo
                    strawberries with their promise of shortcakes and ice cream topping eftsoon, while falling petals of
                    apple, pear, plum, cherry, and peach severally disclosed their fruits a-forming. And, the rains and
                    ruins of winter being surely over, the creeks became crystal clear to betray schools of spawning
                    suckers to the predatory youth of the neighborhood.
            Daily I haunted the banks of Croy's Creek, peering hopefully into every limpid pool which
                    might deceptively offer itself as a haven to the fish. I grumbled mightily when they were late
                    arriving but actually was so full of sensuous delight in living in such a paradise of sights,
                    scents, and sounds that I would have made the same search had it been certain that  no fish would ever appear. But they always did. One day the pools were
                    rippled only by vagrant breezes or a few flirtatious minnows; the next, there were groups of
                    foot-long fish, mysteriously come and mysteriously poised in instinctive formations, and except for
                    winnowing fins, as immobile as if frozen in ice.
            Then, from my pockets came the main implement of capture: the ten foot cord, to which was attached a
                    lead sinker and a bit of brass wire long enough to form a noose about six inches in diameter. With
                    my knife, I cut a suitable willow, trimmed it to proper length, and attached the cord to its smaller
                    end. The resulting rig then consisted of a pole, a line, and a noose of wire, stabilized to a degree
                    by the lead sinker fixed just above the noose.
            What followed is easy to describe but took a lot of doing to produce fish for the pan. It consisted
                    of lowering the noose behind a static fish, with the least possible water disturbance, and
                    cautiously moving the pole so that the noose passed around the tail and forward to a point just back
                    of the gills before giving a quick upward flip to tighten the noose and hoist the fish
                    unceremoniously from his happy trance to fatal reality. Such rudeness necessarily disturbed the
                    school and imposed a period of waiting before tranquility was restored and another catch made
                    possible. A skillful snarer, however, could sometimes remove fish after fish without stampeding the
                    others unduly. Perhaps the fact that they did not see what was going on before their very noses has
                    something to do with the origin of the slang term, "sucker."
            A variant was to find a fat hen fish laying eggs in a shallow stretch of water, noose her from the
                    sweet yellow sand, and flip her ruthlessly to the bank. Such roe as remained after this merciless
                    treatment appeared along with the fish at our next breakfast. In spite of the myriad and unavoidable
                    bundles of bones, we considered suckers delicious, fried them crisply brown, and ate them bones and
                    all with lots of bread and many cups of coffee.
            It has been years since I have seen a school of spawning suckers, and I am told that snaring is
                    illegal in many states. Probably it was then, too, but we knew little of such things and cared less.
                    Anyway, it was May, and it would have been a queer game warden who would have flaunted a man-made
                    law in the face of her magic.
            
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—JUNE
            
            "And then came June, and, rose in hand, my threadbare penitence apieces
                    tore…." So, almost, spake the Tentmaker. If I ever felt any penitence I fail to
                    recall it, but well remembered is many a sunny June and its roses—wild roses with their
                    five petals spread in complete abandon while robber bees made free of their unguarded gold.
                    Old-fashioned yellow roses, too, poignantly perfect on straggling unkempt stems, like beautiful
                    damsels in a once fine neighborhood now surrounded by slums. And roses of every species known to my
                    green-thumbed grandmother and her friends for counties around.
            It was in June that my parents, on the fifth day, made dual fiesta of their wedding anniversary and
                    my father's birthday, and well into my fourth lustrum provided an excitement ranking with
                    Christmas and the Fourth of July. My own contribution grew from merely helping to pick cherries for
                    the special pies, without which father did not consider the day complete, to more ambitious duties
                    as I grew older—duties such as picking enough wild strawberries for the breakfast
                    shortcake, or providing a mess of catfish, young squirrels, or rabbits to be fried in the fat of
                    home-grown, home-cured bacon with just enough fresh salted butter to give the superior golden brown
                    crust which both delighted the eye and conserved the delicious flavor beneath. Just for the pleasure
                    of remembering it, I shall describe the shortcake—its preparation, care, and use.
            First came the plan, which like all good plans, was simple and objective. To make a shortcake was its
                    essence. But this meant reconnaissance, for the strawberries were not called wild for nothing.
                    Kittle as Hieland cattle, each year they challenged anew both eyesight and imagination to find and
                    fix them. For a while they would be numerous on east and south slopes, only to vanish and reappear
                    in brier-grown marshland half a mile away. Or as if wishful of a better means of transportation, for
                    several years they were to be found in profusion along the Vandalia right of way and nowhere else.
                    Even the succulent morels—our musharoons—so dearly prized, were more stable in
                    their habits.
            Once found, a patch had to be analyzed. The day of optimum ripeness had to be determined to avoid too
                    much squishing away of precious juices; and the enemy situation 
                    had to be estimated accurately since it was quite important at times. For I was not the only addict
                    of wild strawberry shortcake, and whereas I was one, the enemies were numerous and shrewd. To catch
                    a bed just right, and ravish without ruining, was an achievement worth commemoration for years
                    afterward.
            The picking was hard work but it never seemed so. There were so many things to see and hear and taste
                    and smell as fingers went about their selection, and it was a rare time to catch up on a lot of
                    deferred thinking. Too, ever and anon, the mouth-watering vision of the completed shortcake would
                    almost overpower action, forcing the picker to concentrate fiercely on the current task in order to
                    consummate his dream more quickly.
            More skillful hands than mine usually did the final stemming and washing. The berries were then
                    sweetened slightly and allowed to stand until the cake was baked. The cake or, rather, the
                    cakes—usually three—were of unsweetened short dough, about an inch and a half
                    in thickness, and were allowed to cool before being split carefully, sand-wichwise. Then, out came
                    the berries to be ladled between the slices and between each cake as it was decked upon the one
                    below. Three cakes made six layers of alternate red-and-tan-edged white, and this was about as high
                    as a good shortcake could go without being unbalanced or ostentatious. As a matter of fact, there
                    were seldom enough berries to go further, especially since the crowning dollop was spread thickly
                    and the surplus juice poured slowly over the whole creation.
            The next to last touch was now added: granulated sugar was sprinkled lightly over the top where it
                    sifted into the little valleys to dissolve into delicious syrup or where it clung precariously on
                    the peaks, semi-solid, to receive its final treatment a few minutes later. Next, a few small pieces
                    of sweet butter were placed irregularly on the top berries, never too many, nor too close to the
                    edge. And now the cake was gently inserted into a moderately hot oven for melding into ultimate
                    goodness all the peerless ingredients so carefully blended by human hands. The result? Why, the
                    result was a wild strawberry shortcake, if you wish to be literal, but such a shortcake as should
                    make a bulldog break a ten pound log chain merely to sniff.
            
            The last thing, of course, was the eating. I have been warned to use caution with the verb to eat. Told that if carelessly tossed into a sentence in lieu of lunch, dine, breakfast, partake of food, break bread, share a repast, et cetera, ad
                    nauseam, it might connote of tearing at raw meat or something. Mebbeso. To me, the ultimate in
                    gastronomical ineffability is to eat such a wild strawberry shortcake as I have just described. Ah,
                    June….
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—JULY
            
            In my boyhood book, July was a month which could have been left out of the calendar without upsetting
                    anything, provided of course that the Fourth could be tacked on somewhere else. Such a splendiferous
                    fiesta could not possibly be spared, but for certain economic reasons it would have been better to
                    sandwich it between, say, Halloween and Thanksgiving. Growing up on a small Indiana farm made me
                    rich in everything but money; but, inasmuch as money seemed to be a requisite for getting the most
                    out of the Fourth of July, I would have preferred that it come after we had disposed of our crop and
                    before the cash had all been spent for Christmas or such unavoidable essentials as schoolbooks,
                    winter clothes, and the interminable doctor bills.
            No one had then come up with the statement that it was impossible to have both butter and cannon, but
                    such a pronouncement would not have been malapropos in our neighborhood—merely redundant.
                    For we had butter aplenty, but I couldn't have cannon crackers—at least not in
                    the quantity and size I fervently desired. To make it worse, we always had one or two neighbors,
                    just on the verge of indigence, whose ideas differed widely from those held firmly by my father. And
                    those neighbors bought fireworks to the wide-eyed envy of us less fortunate younguns, and to the
                    tight-lipped disapproval of the rest of the community. None of which appeared to bother the
                    profligates nor, more shame to them, to prevent the bigoted majority from inviting the feckless ones
                    to come and bring their pyrotechnics.
            On numerous Glorious Fourths, my predicament was analogous to that described in the classic story:
                    "There was  Otto with his big bass horn, and there I
                    stood with my little piccolo." More exactly, there I was with my puny packets of Chinese
                    squibs compared with the neighbors' younguns' wealth of big Roman candles,
                    pinwheels, nigger chasers, giant crackers, and the breath-taking splendor of skyrockets with their
                    plethora of multi-colored fireballs bursting high in the starry firmament…so beautiful it
                    hurt my throat to see.
            On my first birthday, grandfather gave me a puppy. She was a lovely little black and tan lady of the
                    work breed locally and loosely called shepherd. How she grew and did her work on the farm, created a
                    legend, and died without ostentation in her sixteenth year has no real part in this calendar, but
                    the remark made about her by Mr. John Stoner, dean of the local stockmen, has. For it was during a
                    hot drive of a cantankerous mixed herd of cattle to the Hamrick's Station loading chutes
                    that old John watched more fine stock dog work in one morning than he had seen in a lifetime. With
                    the July sun blistering his ruddy face, Mr. Stoner sat his saddle, hat in hand, and paid his tribute
                    reverently when he said, "By God, that dog's got more sense than most
                    Democrats!" The words were spoken about 1905 and might be considered too far to the right
                    today.
            There were good reasons for not liking July. It was hot. Not the kind of heat we have nowdays,
                    diluted by air-conditioned, air-cooled theaters, drugstores, and homes, and with shorts and halters,
                    backless play suits, skirtless dresses, shirtless chests, and sockless feet more prevalent than
                    rabbits in 
                        Australia
                    , but real heat. Heat that started half an hour after sunrise and continued without
                    interruption of breeze or cloud to fulfill its mission making corn grow and people suffer.
            July brought prickly heat to some; a case in point is that of Taylor Crump. Mr. Crump was a Civil War
                    veteran whose temper was short most of the time, and particularly toward the end of July before his
                    pension check arrived—afterward, he was ebullient for a day or two until his supply of
                    spiritus frumenti ran out. With prickly heat a torturing belt around his ample waistline, the old
                    man gullibly hearkened to the advice of a couple of John Stoner's hellion sons; they said
                    that Sloan's Liniment was a sure cure for his ailment, and in his discomfort, old Taylor
                    forgot that specific liniment was for horses and that it often blistered their tough hides. With  a lavish hand, he doused the first areas; there were no further
                    dousings.
            On fire, the old veteran sprinted for the house, bellowing to his daughter a request which became a
                    neighborhood slogan: "Lizzie, bring the cream!"
            Nor did our Indiana heat disappear with the setting of the sun. Oh, no! It settled down around us
                    like a suffocating shawl through which, late in July, we watched ten million fireflies light the
                    stage for about the same number of katydids whose rasping orchestration was broken only by the
                    flutes of whippoorwills and the screech owls' counterpoint. Meanwhile, we gasped languidly
                    and waved palm leaf fans or scratched our chigger bites.
            Chiggers were the worst plague of my childhood. Without them, I could better have endured the heat;
                    and without the heat there might not have been so many chiggers—I do not know. But I know
                    that through many a sweltering July night I have tossed and moaned and scratched and tortured myself
                    with camphor, salt, coal oil, and anything else available in a futile effort to stop the maddening
                    itch till green dawn brought a short nap to a mighty tired little boy. The heat and the chiggers
                    made tempers short and made July an easy first choice of months I liked least. It even ruined much
                    of the joy I might have derived from my birthday which fell perversely on the fifteenth of the
                    month.
            To the young, though, no month could be all bad and my senescent eyes, peering through the soft lens
                    of retrospect, easily identify as my own a meandering path where dust puffed and mud squished
                    pleasingly between bare toes, where young rabbits and squirrels fell, metaphorically, into the
                    family skillet, and whole Jersey milk combined synergistically with junket tablets to produce
                    hand-cranked ice cream of an excellence never equaled thereafter. I define the Good Old Days as any
                    portion of the life span at which we gaze back nostalgically—even July, chiggers and all.
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—AUGUST
            
            August was the eatingest month! Not only did hard work engender terrific appetites,
                    but there were so many good things to eat. Furthermore, competition raised its head, for August was
                    the month of community enterprises—haying  and
                    threshing—and shame be to the housewife who failed to set a superior table for the haying
                    crew or the threshing ring. She might not be read out of church, but she knew full well that her
                    failings would receive wide publicity, even unto the third and fourth generation. These were no
                    alien hired laborers, but neighbors, and hence, highly critical. In 
                        Madison
                     Township it was impossible to gain much by setting an exceptionally good table, but it
                    was exceedingly easy to lose a lot of face by setting a mediocre one.
            Long before I was old enough to be more than a fascinated spectator, the arrival of the huffing
                    threshing machine—a term which elastically included not only the steam powered traction
                    engine and the big red separator, but also the water wagon and the technical crew—filled
                    me and all my contemporaries with excitement. Excitement which manifested itself by our watching
                    every move during the actual separation of grain from sheaves and by imitative creations of toy
                    threshing outfits. These contraptions we dragged energetically about the neighborhood, trying to
                    outdo all rivals in creating the nearest simulacra of their huge prototypes.
            Due the fortuitous reroofing of our house with the consequent replacing of gutters and downspouts, I
                    became possessed of a length of pipe with an elbow-bend very like unto the blower pipe of a
                    separator, and concurrently, the owner of an old foot-powered sewing machine which, after a few
                    pulleys and string belts had been added, emitted a thrilling rattle and hum when pedaled hard. These
                    items, mounted on a small wagon and towed by a two-lever toy handcar labled "The Irish
                    Mail," made me undisputed threshing machine tycoon for a whole season.
            As for August eating, well, while there was still a solid foundation of ham, bacon, sausage, canned
                    beef, and all sorts of tins, glasses, or paraffin-topped stone jars of fruits, jellies, jams,
                    butters, conserves, preserves, and whole or quartered fruits, they were not really necessary, for
                    Nature suddenly opened the gates and let her garden torrents inundate the kitchen and her poultry
                    glut the skillets. August may well be considered as the month when Hoosierdom's activity in
                    its favorite indoor sport of digging its grave with its teeth reached a peak; the prevailing
                    attitude seemed to be: if I must die, I'll die happy.
            
            A typical carte du jour might be as follows—but bear in mind that where
                    the word or appears it often should be and, for the desires of the guest as well
                    as those of the household received due consideration:
            Breakfast: Fried chicken, fried ham, or canned pork tenderloin, or beefsteak. Red or flour gravy, hot
                    baking powder or soda biscuits, or pancakes, or heavily buttered oven toast. Raspberry, blackberry,
                    quince, apple, and grape jelly; various fruit butters, conserves, jams, and preserves. Honey,
                    molasses, maple syrup, and candy. Horseradish, cayenne and black pepper, butter,
                    milk, cream, sugar, coffee, and water.
            Dinner (midday meal): Fried pork, fried chicken, gravy, new potatoes in cream, green beans, baked
                    squash, roastin' ears, and fried green apples. Sliced cucumbers in vinegar, chopped pickle
                    relish, white and red radishes, green onions, and clabber cheese (cottage cheese).
                    Bread—on baking days, hot bread and yeast biscuits both appeared on the
                    table—or baking powder biscuits, and butter. The condiments were increased by the
                    addition of bottled hot pepper sauce, mustard, and a cruet of vinegar. Cake, cookies, and cherry,
                    berry, apple, squash, chocolate, or cream pies—often all—appeared at the same
                    meal. Cold tea, hot coffee, milk, and water. Syrup, sorghum, and candy.
            
            Supper (evening meal): Hot bread or biscuits, cold bread, beef—boiled or
                    fried—any leftover pork, or chicken, and if none, a fresh supply of one or both.
                    Escalloped salsify, potato salad; mashed, fried, or creamed potatoes, or potato cakes, as whim or
                    requests dictated. Sliced cucumbers in vinegar, wilted lettuce with chopped onions and hot sauce,
                    sliced tomatoes with black pepper and sugar, and late in the month, finely chopped cabbage, over
                    which was poured bubbling hot bacon fat. Add cake, pie, floats, pudding, all the jellies, jams,
                    conserves, preserves, and stewed fruits of the earlier meals, coffee, tea, milk, water, syrup,
                    molasses, and candy, and you have a repast which sustained until breakfast. That
                    is, if you overlook several nibbles of candy, cookies, or even a solid sandwich of pork with
                    horseradish when the day had been unusually hot and arduous.
            This is a simple, day-to-day menu; we did better under stress. But it was not so much the daily
                    routine which increased girths and decreased life expectancy, it was the overtime  extras: the Family Reunions, the Old Settlers' Picnics, the
                    Old Baptist—Hardshell and Forty Gallon—Meetings, the Methodist Picnic, Camp
                    Meetings, week-long Revival Meetings, Ice Cream Socials, and Golden Wedding Celebrations. Upon
                    these, a freeloader with a good memory of blood and marriage lines, a fluent line of flattery, and
                    unlimited gall, could subsist all month without spending a cent or losing an ounce.
            Before condemning us as barbarous, profligate, extravagant, excessive, gluttonous, murderous,
                    ostentatious, and disgusting, be cognizant of the fact that our table was seldom graced by just the
                    five immediate members of my family. Habitually, from one to thirty extra persons partook of the
                    aforementioned tidbits, and it would have been considered inhospitable indeed to have forced a
                    single one to look in vain for something to tickle a jaded appetite.
            For example, many a person might be tired of fried chicken and flour gravy yet be able to make a
                    satisfying meal on fried ham and red sop, plus the rest of the table's load. Again, various
                    elders had trouble with their store teeth and appreciated lots of soft stuff—mashed
                    potatoes, stewed tomatoes, stewed chicken and dumplings, or bowls of chicken noodles in thick broth,
                    instead of the usual diet of fried meats. Murderous our August menus might have been, but I deny
                    categorically the other charges.
            As off-beat in our conventional community as a banjo at a funeral, was a well-to-do farmer named
                    Jacob Rogers—more often known as Jakey, or Uncle Jakey—who bought his whisky
                    by the barrel, drank it from a half-gallon tin cup from cockcrow till chicken-roost, and died, hale
                    and hearty, in his upper eighties. During haying, he used to ride about the field where his two
                    strapping daughters worked side by side with their husbands and the hired men, a gallon stone jug
                    with a corncob stopper swinging from his saddle horn. Generously and considerately, he made the
                    rounds offering all and sundry honest bourbon refreshment and, as a gentleman should, taking a drink
                    with each. Nor did he fail to wipe the jug mouth carefully with the heel of his hand before offering
                    it to the next communicant. We shall not see the like of Uncle Jakey again—not even in
                    August.
            
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—SEPTEMBER
            
            With few exceptions, September was a month of half-measures during which living creatures
                    jillflirtedly tried everything and completed little. The amazing part of it was that most everything
                    was delightful!
            Squirrels stepped up their round-the-calendar dalliance; rabbits skittered foolhardily under the
                    wheels of horse and buggy traffic; a normally conventional spinster ran off with a lightning rod
                    salesman; and a local doctor, notorious for his extracurricular activities, went single standard
                    long enough to perforate, with a nickel-plated .38, the paramour of his long neglected wife, or vice
                    versa, I forget which.
            Basic Nature, not to be outdone, laid on a weather program which could only be acceptable in
                    September: ten million tomatoes ripened simultaneously and were picked with sacroiliac, down-in-back
                    aftereffects noticeable long after hog killing time; schools opened in heat annually described as
                    oppressive, unseasonable, or prostrating, according to the whim of the Banner's editor, yet the nights were downright chilly, mornings frosty-bright,
                    and afternoons…impossibly…laaaazy warm; an unexpected rainstorm ruined the
                    class picture of Rose Poly's Engineers and the Happy Hustlers' wiener roast at
                    Buzzards Roost. It was a dry sort of rain, though, and did no one any real harm.
            Specifically, the rain did not slow down the consummation of September's one sensible local
                    activity, the production of sorghum molasses. The word molasses is pure lagniappe,
                    for no one in Indiana needed it. The term sorghum is self-explanatory according to the season; in
                    August, for example, it means the standing, still-green cane—no one but a miserly
                    plutocrat would still have sorghum molasses in August! For the benefit of the uninformed, however,
                    and because sorghum is not born in its liquid state of dulcitude, a resumé of its
                    life-cycle follows.
            Like the wine grape, and unlike maize, sorghum was best when grown on thin soil. Something in the
                    struggle for existence seemed to add flavor and sweetness to the juice. As a corollary, a perfect
                    seedbed was essential and clement weather highly desirable during the plant's early days.
                    Tending a sorghum patch was no lick-and-a-promise matter, either; for if the days were so dry that
                    noxious weeds were  limited to minor infiltrations, then much
                    hoe mulching was considered mandatory to conserve moisture. On the other hand, if excessive rainfall
                    denied one access to the patch too long, then weeds and canes shot up amazingly fast. This was a
                    double-barreled misfortune, for while the weeds could be removed by a lot of work, the too rapid
                    growth of the sorghum itself into luxuriant, coarse canes had a deleterious effect upon the quality
                    and flavor of the molasses.
            At just the proper time—which no one has ever been able to learn to estimate except by
                    empirical methods—all blades were stripped from the stalks; similiarly, at just the
                    proper time the cane was cut and, for optimum results, transported without delay to the mill and
                    maker for final processing. With rare exceptions, the milling and making were conducted
                    contiguously. In its simplest form—which was the only form I ever knew—a
                    sorghum making layout consisted of the mill, a quadrupedal power plant, various receptacles, a fire
                    pit topped by a shallow, rectangular evaporation pan, and the maestro.
            The mill was merely two or three vertical metal rollers, about a foot high, confined within a heavy
                    cast iron cage, the whole bolted to the tops of several posts sunk solidly in the ground. All
                    rollers were geared to turn when power was applied to one, and this operation was accomplished
                    neatly by fastening the larger end of a long, drooping pole to the extended axis of one roller and
                    attaching its smaller end to an equine or asinine prime mover which spiritlessly traced a perimeter
                    with a radius the length of the pole, or approximately so.
            Into the mangling device stalks of cane were thrust by hand, transported inexorably forward, squeezed
                    dry, and heedlessly dropped into the bagasse pile below. Simultaneously, by way of a crude but
                    effective chute, juice poured down into an appropriate receptacle. Cane juice looks like something
                    I'd rather not see early in the morning. A fermented beverage called sorghum beer can, it
                    is alleged, be made from sorghum juice and certain added ingredients; the less said of this the
                    better.
            When the pan was full of juice, the maestro took charge. A fire of steady-burning
                    wood—hickory, maple, white oak—kept the mass boiling, and as it diminished in
                    volume, the man alternately stirred and skimmed, depositing the nauseous  looking scum in a bucket for some unknown, but probably horrible,
                    purpose of his own.
            Eventually, the liquid thickened and gave off a perfume guaranteed to make any sorghum lover look
                    hastily for bread, butter, and a deep plate with knife, fork, and spoon. Auxiliary platters of fried
                    chicken, fried rabbit or squirrel, catfish, or smoked ham are not inappropriate if you insist on
                    variety, but a real sorghum eater does not clutter up his plate with nonessentials; he just pours in
                    a pint of syrup, adds half a pound of butter, beats the mixture to a creamy texture, grabs his bread
                    or biscuit, and wades in. Some of the best sorghum eaters close their eyes, claiming that it tastes
                    better that way; and I think they are probably right.
            Aside from its admitted dietary excellence, there are numerous fringe benefits. Sorghum does not
                    spoil easily, which is not the same as saying that it keeps well—not among sorghum
                    addicts, anyway. It makes fine cakes which taste a great deal of sorghum. It makes wonderful taffy,
                    and I have always liked to watch people pull taffy. It is superior for popcorn balls and, in a
                    pinch, is adequate for resticking a steamed-off postage stamp. Its greatest boon to females, though,
                    is its unequaled efficacy as a baby weaner—far superior to paregoric or
                    laudanum—either straight, or on a sugar tit. Everybody knows that.
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—OCTOBER
            
            Of all the months, October was the most nearly perfect. It was the complete, the fulfilled, the last
                    vivid act of the farm boy's annual drama. In October, all things finished their life-cycle,
                    ended or suspended their growth, ripened, acquired flavor, were harvested. And as humans held their
                    celebrations ranging from bonfires, through chicken roasts, sorghum taffy pulls, and play parties,
                    to school exhibits and county fairs, so did Nature bedeck herself in pagan colors, frost-inspired
                    tints, and shimmering mantles of Indian summer haze. In general, she took things serenely, resting
                    in warm contentment from her six months of labor.
            October frosts were sharp, the better to mature her products and put to sleep the perennials of
                    forest and garden.  With the change of scenery, new
                    orchestration began; gone were the katydids, crickets, and locusts of late summer, their notes harsh
                    against an undersong of plundering bugs and bees the whole night long. Instead, the violins of
                    Autumn gently sent their farewell to Summer conducted by the night wind and, as days grew shorter,
                    regretfully began the long overture to Winter. Like woodwinds and percussion instruments, blades and
                    husks of corn whistled and sighed while walnuts and hickory nuts thumped the earth at the direction
                    of that same night wind.
            Unavoidably, a tinge of melancholy invaded the theme, yet coons whickered contentedly in the timbered
                    bottoms, the hooting of owls was gregarious laughter, a vixen yapped lightheartedly in the
                    pennyroyal hill pastures, and farm dogs indifferently bayed lazy gossip back and forth to complete
                    the predominantly cheerful symphony. Only the far-off trumpets of migrating geese blew an urgent
                    threnody, a last lament for the death of the great Kankakee Marshes, victim of drainage schemes.
            Occasionally it rained, turning cornfields into near-morasses of yellow clay or black alluvial soil,
                    depending upon whether the locale was an upland field or a creek bottom patch. In the latter,
                    cockleburs grew tall; and to avoid horrible tangles, we braided our horses' tails tightly
                    and covered them with sleeves from wornout denim jumpers. If a hard freeze came now, the fingers of
                    corn shuckers cracked open and huskers' lotions became a necessity. Our family favorite was
                    equal parts of glycerin, witch hazel, and bay rum, thoroughly shaken before each application. It had
                    a pleasing fragrance and was efficacious. Too young to make a hand, I gleaned the downrow and took a
                    lot of pleasure from the tom-tom thumping of corn ears against wagon sideboards—and still
                    more from the long rides to and from the corncrib.
            Just as we harvested fruits, grains, and garden truck, so we annually collected enough nuts for our
                    needs. Black walnuts were everywhere, hickory nuts abounded, and the less popular butternuts were
                    sufficient in quantity. Removal of walnut and butternut hulls was for me a tedious process involving
                    pounding the nuts with a club, whereas father swiftly tramped them out, kicked the hulls aside, and
                    left the nuts for me to spread on our henhouse roof for final drying.
            
            Hickory nut hulls usually removed themselves if let alone or if rolled around a bit. In my opinion,
                    there is no better nut on earth than the hickory nut; its delicate flavor lends itself to the
                    improvement of cakes, candies, and to general eating. I remember so pleasantly long afternoons when,
                    with rain pouring solidly on our barn roof, father paused from his harness mending or tool
                    sharpening long enough to crack a panful of nuts, which we shared companionably, picking and
                    munching like a pair of squirrels, while our stock dog snored softly on a pile of grain sacks under
                    the work bench.
            One misty night, father took me on a possum hunt with some neighbors and their sons. Because I know
                    that he had no great interest in the sport, and even less in possum as an article of food, I feel
                    sure that he went in hopes that our course would lead through a fine pawpaw patch in the woods
                    pasture of a neighbor who preferred to keep his pawpaws for home consumption. At any rate, that is
                    what eventually occurred after we had treed and collected two possums, and the devious course of the
                    hunt had completely confused me as to our location.
            The patch symetrically surrounded one of the limestone sinkholes so prevalent in that part of 
                        Putnam County
                    , and such pawpaws as remained were delicious. Pawpaws collected, green and hard, as
                    early as August will, after being packed in grass and stored in a warm place, eventually ripen to a
                    delectable yellow pulp, but the flavor is never so fine as that of tree-ripened fruit that falls at
                    its own sweet pleasure. We ate our fill and carried home a hatful for the rest of the family to
                    enjoy next day. Fifty years later I remember it clearly; I remember also that I have never been on
                    another possum hunt.
            Rarely, a heavy snowfall changed the entire picture. October snows usually were rollicking affairs of
                    big flakes and short duration, presaging winter pleasures-to-be without any of their attendant
                    bitter cold. An October snow also meant a rabbit hunt—not a serious, all-day affair, but
                    a practical project lasting just long enough to get a couple of bunnies for the table. Almost as
                    good as the rabbits themselves was the joy of tagging along and smelling the fragrance of black
                    powder from father's old, big-eared double gun.
            During long evenings redolent of woodsmoke and burning leaves, we ate popcorn, apples, cookies,
                    sorghum taffy,  and drank fresh sweet cider in the kitchen,
                    enjoying the welcome warmth from our black iron, wood-burning range; or, we played noisy games of
                    flinch on the dining room table, by the light of two coal oil lamps. Life seemed so friendly, so
                    safe, so very, very good in October.
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—NOVEMBER
            
            While some holidaying and amiable dolessness could be condoned in October, November was all
                    business…. Not that it was dour or puritanical, it was merely that playtime was over and
                    there was a mort of work to be done. Even when Indian summer lingered or returned briefly, there was
                    never quite enough time to get everything secure before real winter arrived.
            Being a good husbandman, father had little patience with those who waited until supplies were
                    exhausted before replenishing the various stockpiles which represented our maintenance materials:
                    hay, ground feed; wood for heating-stoves and kitchen ranges; fence wire, staples, nails; and
                    medicaments, liniments, and nostrums for livestock ailments.
            Daily, then, the team and wagon was busy from morning till night hauling grain to the mill, there to
                    trade a part for the ground feeds needed for swine, cattle, horses, and chickens; or hauling in a
                    haystack to fill the void which several months feeding had created in our hayloft; or hauling cord
                    after cord of seasoned split cookstove wood or heating stove chunks to fill our woodshed to
                    capacity; or using a big sled to haul several loads of fodder from the shocks to pile along the feed
                    lot fence on the south side of the barn where, when the weather was unsuitable for day-long grazing
                    in the woods pasture, cows and horses could get a modicum of exercise and considerable forage
                    out-of-doors and yet be somewhat sheltered from the wind.
            And when the bins were full and nothing remained to be hauled, then there was fence to repair,
                    harness to mend, tools to sharpen and store for next season, and just when it appeared that there
                    would soon be nothing more than the  daily chores to demand
                    father's time, our supply of soft soap would be reported as alarmingly low. That was a
                    situation which would never have worried me, for I hated the sight, smell, and taste of the slimy
                    stuff, but my voice wasn't even the equivalent of one crying in the wilderness.
            All summer, wood ashes from the cookstove had been regularly deposited in the soap barrel. This was
                    not just a barrel, it was an institution. Set on a slanting, raised platform, the barrel leaned
                    forward rakishly but never tumbled. Over the ashes contained therein, cistern water was poured daily
                    to lixiviate the grey mass and drip a red-brown lye into a huge iron kettle. When a gallon or
                    thereabouts of the liquid potassium carbonate had been collected, it was time to make a batch of
                    soap, and soap required fats in large quantities.
            Although scraps of fat had been saved in a stone jar for months, there never seemed to be enough,
                    which caused much serious discussion between father and his parents. I am quite sure that all the
                    talk was purely ritualistic with the conclusion foreordained, but it was conducted with solemnity
                    and judicial attitudes appropriate to the grandest of projects. Which in a way it was, for the
                    question was whether or not to kill a hog in November.
            Because hog killing belongs to February, I shall treat it here with a light touch, stating only that
                    it was better than anything else that happened in November, but not so good as the major-league
                    butcherin' three months later. We ate fresh pork with gusto but gave large amounts to
                    neighbors with the unstated, but clearly understood, idea that they would reciprocate before many
                    weeks had passed. In reality a corollary, but ostensibly the reason for the November slaughter was
                    to obtain enough additional fat to make an adequate amount of soft soap—reasoning which
                    is not far removed from that in Lamb's delightful dissertation on the oblique approach to
                    roast pig.
            Without going into the complete technique of soap making, be it said that the making of our soft soap
                    involved boiling fats and lye in an open iron kettle out-of-doors in a spot between orchard and
                    berry patch flanked by a lilac bush and fairly well sheltered from wind. Which was a good thing, for
                    grandmother invariably picked the worst day of  the week for
                    soap-making. An interesting feature of the process was the test applied to determine when the mess
                    was sufficiently cooked; it was the insertion and hasty withdrawal of a chicken wing feather and
                    inspection of its condition: if only the bare spline remained, without any trace of feather, the
                    soap was done!
            Contemplation of the terrific strength of that mixture makes me shudder right now! The wonder is that
                    any texture remained to the clothes exposed to its ravages, or that tender young eyes, ears, and
                    hide were not permanently impaired by careless application of soft-soapy rags. Maybe the threat of
                    washing out a mouth with soap means little today, but it was stern punishment in my childhood.
            To many, November symbolizes Thanksgiving and pumpkin pie. Thanksgiving was a minor holiday in our
                    community, and it was not until I learned, a quarter of a century later, the trick of adding freshly
                    ground white pepper to pumpkin pie that it ever became more than an edible oddity to me. November
                    was the month when we went solidly on our winter diet of all items previously harvested, prepared,
                    aged, and deemed now ready for full enjoyment.
            From the cellar came such staples as canned beans, beets, peas, and tomatoes; such bin-stored
                    vegetables as celery, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, onions, cabbage, salsify, squash, and pumpkins.
                    And from the smokehouse came smoked meats, pickled beef, headcheese, liverwurst, brined pork,
                    sausage, tenderloin of pork, and beef—all fried and laid down in
                    lard—home-rendered lard, of course. From pantry and cold store room we drew dried fruits,
                    sulphured apples, flour and meal milled from our own grain, wild honey, sorghum, jellies, butters,
                    conserves, jams, and preserves, milk, cream, butter, clabber cheese, sugar and condiments. The
                    cistern was situated in the summer kitchen so when inclement weather made it unpleasant to go
                    outdoors our womenfolks could find the essentials of gracious living under roof and within walls.
                    This arrangement made for a close-knit family life and a Gemiitlichkeit without
                    equal.
            In November occasionally appeared an anomaly in the form of a man who rode to hounds and carried the
                    peculiar name of Chicken Leg Smith. Origin of the name is unknown to me, but I know that it carried
                    a disreputable taint of some  sort. He wore no scarlet coat nor,
                    in my opinion, were his hounds of royal lineage; but he rode, and he had hounds. His appearance
                    filled me and my little stock dog with fear which manifested itself by our scampering quickly to the
                    security of the latticed porch, where from behind the shelter of a sere clematis vine, we watched
                    his progress across grandfather's lower pasture. To the best of my knowledge, that ended
                    the matter for my dog, but it was otherwise for me. I had recurring nightmares wherein I fled in
                    terror across eery fields with the somber figures of Chicken Leg and his slavering hounds gaining
                    ominously.
            Perhaps he was only a lonely romantic, an anachronism sublimating his yearning for the Good Old Days,
                    and he might have lived harmlessly for many a year to become a brag piece for the next generation
                    had he been able to manage his domestic affairs as well as he managed his hounds. Regrettable to
                    tell, however, his wife became enamored of a local cattle buyer, with tragic results. For while
                    buggy riding on a quiet back road, the erring pair were confronted by a suspicious husband, and in a
                    blaze of shotgun and revolver fire, Chicken Leg became deceased. I do not know what happened to the
                    relict, but the cattle buyer continued to buy cattle for years thereafter. There may be a moral here
                    somewhere; most likely it is just that November has no time for frivolity.
            Through the soft lens of time, November appears to have been an honest month, neither too sedate nor
                    too giddy. It had humor where humor was needed, and smiles for those about us; and if it lacked the
                    poignant ecstasy of May or the reminiscent color of October, it made ample amends by sparing us
                    December's bitterness and the chigger-tormented heat of July. It had its high moments, too.
                    Once as I was returning home after sundown across a sodden field of tangled, bleached-out corn
                    stalks, a strange bird flapped wearily up and departed with an unfamiliar, bumbling flight, a black
                    silhouette against the dull afterglow, leaving me with a confused memory of a weird round head,
                    preposterously staring eyes, and improbable, long, straight beak. It was the only woodcock I ever
                    saw in Indiana.
            
            SO WELL REMEMBERED—DECEMBER
            
            If November was not dour and puritanical, December was both. And lowering, harsh, arbitrary, morose,
                    brutal, vindictive, and pitiless, too. Maybe I didn't know all these words, but I knew
                    their composite connotation on the calendar. Even though December gave us Christmas and its
                    holidays, it gave them grudgingly.
            With icy blasts and unrelenting ferocity, it froze the combs from chickens in their house, killed
                    whole coveys of roosting quail, and sealed the drinking places of both wild and domestic animals.
                    Or, with sub-zero blizzards and iron-hard frosts, it made bitter business with man and dumb brutes
                    alike, till laughter ceased and friends plodded silently past each other on drift-choked county
                    roads, too cold to give a cheerful greeting.
            It was on one of those cheerless days that I shot Aunt Mary. Aside from the fact that it gave me a
                    base point from which to reckon time, I recall nothing else of value or pleasure derived from the
                    event. On the contrary, it left me with a profound sense of disillusionment concerning the
                    reliability of oral contracts and the ability of female women to listen to reason. It happened thus:
            From the kitchen window, I observed Aunt Mary, warmly clad, watching my uncle preparing a horse and
                    buggy for her use. Perhaps she was going somewhere, I am not sure; I am sure that she did not go
                    anywhere in the buggy that day. Bored with indoor confinement, I picked up my air rifle and stepped
                    out on the porch. The wind was painful. I called something important to Aunt Mary who heeded me not.
                    I called louder without getting a response. Finally, I yelled that if she did not answer me I would
                    take a shot at her. To which—and of this I am positive—she snapped
                    impatiently, "Go ahead and shoot."
            I shot. Shot just as Aunt Mary leaned forward in such a manner as to draw her heavy skirt and coat
                    tight across that portion of her anatomy nearest me. The results were stupendous.
            Aunt Mary was not considered to be particularly athletic; she was more the indoor type. Still, she
                    jumped straight up  higher than the average college athlete
                    could, and this feat was accomplished from an awkward position, static and unprepared. She also
                    yelled and moved swiftly toward me. Indoors, my disillusionment began to form and rapidly
                    crystallized. None of the jury, which included my usually just Grandmother King, even listened to my
                    logical defense that I had permission to shoot. It would have been folly, even madness at that
                    moment, to have added that considering the range and a strong cross wind I had made a remarkable
                    shot.
            There were compensations for the tribulations of December, of course. Partly from need, but more from
                    rebellion against December's tyranny, we grew closer one to another within our clan. There
                    were fewer visitors and more family talk. An item in the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Weekly Banner might provide material for days of discussion. Even my own
                    activities sometimes received undivided attention—when, in a spontaneous burst of
                    enthusiasm, I visited grandfather's rabbit trap and, unaided, tried to bring its prisoner
                    back alive. The favor was somewhat less than welcome due to my error in clumsily allowing the rabbit
                    to escape. Grandfather, forcefully but ungrammatically, told my father that I was "not to
                    touch no rabbits in no traps at no time." Such a pronun-ciamento would leave me entangled
                    in a web of syntax now, but it was depressingly clear at the time.
            Not even December could spoil Christmas. Nor keep hordes of relatives from spending it with us. For
                    me, it was wonderful, but in retrospect I think that my mother could have done with less. Unlike
                    most of my friends, I had two living, healthy sets of grandparents as well as uncles, aunts, and
                    cousins innumerable. Furthermore, the two basic families lived close enough that an hour's
                    drive with horse and buggy sufficed to transfer me from one pleasant milieu to the other. With a
                    quilt under us, two or three hot bricks beneath our feet—feet double shod in arctic
                    overshoes—lap robes and comforters muffling our overcoated forms, the trip was crowded
                    but not too uncomfortable. Intriguing to me were the frost whiskers which formed on our
                    horse's muzzle and, to a lesser degree, on mother's fur piece where her warm
                    breath touched it. About the time the bricks ceased to be a comfort, we arrived.
            
            There was always a tree, and always it was cedar whose pungence increased in the heat of the house to
                    an ecstatic odor almost overpowering when we entered from the gelid outdoors. Almost overpowering,
                    too, was the array of gaily wrapped packages tied to and spread beneath the star-topped,
                    tinsel-and-ornament-bedecked tree. Within the wrapping there was apt to be something only mildly
                    interesting, but the mystery compensated somewhat for the anticlimax. So
                        geht's im Leben.
            
            Soon came the proverbial Christmas Dinner, supposed to astound all eyes by its plenitude and
                    richness. With one exception, though, I do not recall that Christmas provender was any better than
                    our usual Sunday dinner—like the old sourdough who after a lucky strike in the Klondike
                    ordered a thousand dollars worth of pork and beans with the irrefutable explanation, "You
                    can get more but you can't get anything better," I was used to the best. The
                    exception was candy.
            Candy was bought in amazing quantities; we also made it, but homemade candy did not provide the same
                    kind of thrill as that I got when gazing popeyed at a dozen boughten varieties displayed in bowls,
                    baskets, tins, boxes, plates, and sacks all over the house, with never a prohibition against gorging
                    myself sick by gluttony. Such things were expected and viewed leniently at Christmas time. As others
                    might fritter away unjustifiable sums for fireworks or children's toys, so my family spent
                    freely for sweets. Perhaps our Boone ancestors had yearned mightily for a lump of brown sugar or a
                    dollop of long sweetening to ease their wilderness privations, and perhaps the craving passed down
                    to us.
            Being peculiar at an early age, I was never disappointed by my Christmas presents. The majority of
                    them were either handkerchiefs or books, and I just happened to like both. Being chronically
                    afflicted with a cold in my head, I stuffily used bales of handkerchiefs with one hand while
                    clinging happily to a book with the other.
            Certain relatives with more imagination, or more discernment, gave me presents of distinction, such
                    as toy dogs, clowns, whistles, watches, knives, whips, and huge marbles with candy stripes,
                    improbable white lions, or cathedrals  blown in the glass! From
                    this array, mother unobtrusively withdrew from circulation a few toys at a time and produced them
                    dramatically when time hung heavy and I was a burden to those about me. Specialists in child
                    psychology might profitably note that I found my second encounter with these toys just as new and
                    exciting as the first.
            Surprisingly, though, my most vivid December memory is not of Christmas, nor yet of the heartless
                    weather, but of the evening star, ineffably beautiful above leafless branches limned black against a
                    sullen afterglow.
         
         
         
            Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                        Vincennes
                     University
            (October 16, 1807—December 11, 1811)
            
                    Edited by Robert Constantine
                    *
                
            The minutes of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Board of Trustees, covering the period between the organizational meeting of
                    December 6, 1806, and September 12, 1807, were published in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LIV (December, 1958), 313–364. The members of the Board, most of whom
                    were the acknowledged political, social, and business leaders of Indiana Territory, are seen in
                    these early minutes grappling with a broad assortment of policy-making and practical problems. The
                    formal organization of the Board was accomplished through the election of officers, the appointment
                    of "special" and "standing" committees, and the adoption of
                    "rules and orders for the Government of the Board of Trustees…." Such
                    procedural matters were relatively simple to resolve, compared with a host of other problems of a
                    more substantive nature.
            For example, the problem of acquiring a site and materials for a university building involved several
                    committees whose reports contained detailed information on such economic factors as the costs of
                    land, labor, and building materials. Similarly, the problem of raising sufficient
                    funds—then, as now, a constant factor in the deliberations of school
                    bodies—was responsible for the creation of at least a dozen committees, which frequently
                    adopted imaginative but not always successful means in pursuit of solvency. Thus, one committee
                    launched a campaign to raise six thousand dollars by conducting a forty thousand dollar lottery, but
                    neither the support of the territorial legislature nor the glowing descriptions of the lottery in
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, the 
                  
                            Pittsburgh
                         Gazette, the Western World (
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               ), and the Tennessee Gazette (
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               ) 
                  
                     * Robert Constantine is Assistant Professor of History at
                            Indiana State Teachers College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     attracted enough ticket buyers to prevent the
                    lottery's failure. Other "finance" committees were charged with setting
                    the price for the sale or lease of tracts in the township of land granted by Congress in 1804 to
                    support "a seminary of learning." Still other committees petitioned the
                    territorial and national governments for additional aid; circulated subscription lists for the
                    support of "scholars"; made recommendations regarding squatters on the
                    university's land; determined tuition costs ("sixteen Dollars per
                    annum…and a just proportion of fuel…."), teachers' salaries,
                    and dealt with related matters.
            Moreover, the minutes of the meetings held during the nine-month period included in the first
                    installment recorded the Board's earliest, tentative discussions of purely academic
                    affairs: the courses to be offered, teachers' qualifications, the need for education
                    "in a republic," the equalitarian educational philosophy of the trustees, and the
                    like.
            The minutes which follow carry the university's story forward through December 11, 1811, by
                    which time a "grammar school" was being conducted in a recently completed
                    "seminary building." The four-year period covered here throws additional light
                    upon issues raised in the first installment and brings into focus a whole new complex of financial
                    and educational problems, ranging from the purchase of "two tin cups and an axe"
                    to decisions concerning curriculum. The price of the university's land and the terms of
                    land leases had to be revised in the face of the economic realities of the area; conflicting
                    opinions regarding the dimensions of the building were compromised; grievances against the Board by
                    laborers were arbitrated; and constant attention was given to the progress of the workers in
                    completing the building. At the same time, comprehensive "Rules for the Government of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Grammar school" were drawn up, setting forth the duties of
                    "the Teacher…Visitors…Monitor…[and] Students" and
                    regulating "Vacations, Examinations & Exhibitions [and] Rates of Tuition."
                    It is perhaps symbolic of the nature of the Board's obstacles and frustrations during this
                    period that, in the same year that the school's first building was occupied, attendance at
                    the meetings of the trustees declined sharply as  a result of
                    "the Indian troubles," which reached a climax at the Battle of Tippecanoe on
                    November 7, 1811.
            In editing these minutes original spelling has been retained and, in general, original punctuation.
                    Periods have been inserted, however, after initials of persons and abbreviations; they have also
                    been used at the ends of paragraphs and in a few other places where their addition was unmistakably
                    indicated. No commas were added except to separate a series of nouns or names. Unclosed quotation
                    marks were left as they were in the original, but the abbreviations "A.M." and
                    "P.M." were standardized by uniform use of capital letters and periods.
                    Inconsistent and unusual spacing used in the original minutes sometimes dictated modification of
                    paragraphing for the sake of clarity and uniformity. Space limitations prompted the listing of
                    members present at each Board meeting in a series, rather than in the columns which usually appeared
                    in the original.
            At a special meeting of the Board in pursuance of the Presidents Advertisement1
                    on Friday the 16th of October 1807. The following members were present: William H. Harrison
                    President, John Badollet, John Johnson, Francis Vigo, Jacob Kuykendall, Waller Taylor, Peter Jones,
                    James Johnson, Elias McNamee, Nathl. Ewing, Henry Vanderburg, William Bullitt.
            A letter was read by the President stating the resignation of Henry Hurst as a member of the Board.
            Arthur Jones proposes to bring down one hundred perches of good Stone for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University and deliver them on the University Lot of ground in 
                        Vincennes
                     by the first day of June now ensuing for four hundred Dollars, receiving one hundred
                    and fifty Dollars in hand when the contract is executed and the ballance when the Stone are
                    delivered.
            
               
                  1 The Act of Incorporation provided that "extraordinary meetings
                        of the said board may be had by the President, or any three of the trustees, giving at least ten
                        days notice thereof, either in writing, or in some public newspaper most convenient to said
                        University." Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            1801–1809 (Indiana Historical Collections, reprint; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1931), 180.
            
            
            I [Arthur Jones] will give Robert 
                        Houston
                    
               2 as my security. 
                        Vincennes
                     Octr. 9th 1807.
            Judge Taylor in behalf of the managers of the Lottery scheme Reported the following expences to have
                    been incurred by the said managers to carry the 
                        Vincennes
                     University lottery into effect: 
                  
                     Drs. to E. Stout for printing eight thousand tickets & forty copies of the
                                scheme
                     $50.
                  
                  
                     To the Editor of the Western World3 for publishing the scheme in
                                his paper three times
                     $10.
                  
                  
                     To John D. Hay for expenses at his house4 while signing tickets as
                                per voucher marked 1
                     $ 8.50
                  
                  
                     To George Wallace Jnr. for money paid by him to John Scull5
                                printer for publishing scheme and for postage As per voucher No. 2
                     $ 6.25
                  
                  
                     To Genl. W. Johnston for postage on letters that concerned the Lottery as per voucher
                                No. 3
                     $ 3.
                  
                  
                     To the 
                                    Nashville
                                 printer6 for publishing scheme as per voucher No. 4
                     $ 7.
                  
                  
                     Dollars
                     84.75
                  
               
                
            
               
                  2 Although the name is here spelled "
                            Houston
                        ," other contemporary documents indicate that it was usually spelled
                        "Huston." In 1808 Robert Huston, in a petition to President Jefferson, joined
                        a group of "citizens of 
                            Knox County
                        " in a notably violent attack on the record of John Rice Jones as a member
                        of the legislative council. The same year, Huston and a Joseph Worthington sold some 1300 acres
                        of land, mostly in Busseron Township, to representatives of the Shaker sect, whose settlement in
                        the area lasted until 1827. Clarence Edwin Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of
                            the 
                                United States
                            , Vol. VII, The Territory of Indiana,
                        1800–1810 (
                            Washington
                        , 1939), 628; Oliver W. Robinson, "The Shakers in 
                            Knox County
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV (March, 1938), 37;
                        John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                            Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 387.
               
                  3 The Western World,
                        
                     Frankfort, Kentucky
                  , carried numerous 
                            Vincennes
                         University lottery advertisements. The issue of January 29, 1807, announced that
                        lottery "tickets may be had of Mr. John Gwathmey, in 
                            Louisville
                        ; Mr. Reilly and Jos M. Street, in 
                            Frankfort
                        ; Mr. Charles Wilkins, in 
                            Lexington
                        ; and in most of the towns in the western country." From August 27 to
                        November 12, 1807, each issue of this paper held out the prospect of "5000 DOLLARS FOR
                        5 ! ! ! Tickets in the 
                            Vincennes
                         University LOTTERY for sale at the office of the W. World."
               
                  4 The fact that "expenses" were incurred at John D.
                        Hay's "house" suggests the possibility that the meeting was held at
                        Hay's tavern, at which the Board met frequently.
               
                  5 John Scull was one of the founders (1786) and, until 1816, printers of
                        the 
                     
                                Pittsburgh
                             Gazette. Clarence S. Brigham, History and Bibliography of
                            American Newspapers, 1690–1820 (2 vols., 
                            Worcester
                        . Mass., 1947), II, 965, 1479.
               
                  6 The university's lottery "scheme" appeared in
                        the March 28, 1807, issue of the Tennessee Gazette and Mero-District
                        Advertiser, which
            
            
            On Motion—Resolved that the above account be accepted and that the sum of eighty four
                    dollars & seventy five cents be paid by the Treasurer to Waller Taylor to reimburse the
                    several individuals who have made advances to defray the expences of the said Lottery.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Committee heretofore appointed to contract for materials for
                    the University be and they are hereby authorized to contract with Arthur Jones for fifty perches of
                    stone upon the terms stated in his proposals provided that the sum advanced to him shall not exceed
                    seventy five Dollars.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Treasurer be and he is hereby directed to pay to Genl. W.
                    Johnston (a former member of this Board and one of the Committee to contract for Bricks etc.) one
                    Dollar and fifty cents the amount paid by him to the Editor of the Western World for inserting an
                    Advertisement in his paper for receiving proposals for furnishing two hundred thousand Bricks.7
            
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn Sine die.
            Monday December 1st 1807
            At a special meeting of the Board the following members were present: William H. Harrison President,
                    Nathl. Ewing, John Badollet, William Bullitt, John Johnson, Peter Jones, Elias McNamee, George
                    Leech, Luke Decker, Henry Vander-burgh, James Johnson.
            
               was "printed by Bradford & Miller, on Market Street, 
                     Nashville, Tennessee
                  ." The advertisement, which occupied two columns of the
                        paper's front page, included a list of the various prizes involved, a long statement of
                        the need for education "as the best safeguard to liberty," and an enthusiastic
                        appeal "to the philanthropist,…the patriot,…and to those whose
                        only wish it is to be benefitted in a pecuniary manner." Immediately beneath the
                        lottery advertisement, however, the printer inserted the rather curious admonition:
                        "Never give a certainty for an uncertainty."
               
                  7 The Western World advertisement which appeared over
                        "Genl. W. Johnson's" name on March 19, 1807,
                        announced that "proposals will be received by the subscribers in 
                            Vincennes
                        , until the first day of April next, for furnishing (for the use of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University) 200,000 Bricks—100 Perches of Stone—20,000 joint
                        Shingles—30,000 feet of Plank, and 1500 feet of Cubic Timber.—The
                        proposals must be in writing, and the proposer to state who are to be his sureties for the
                        performance of the contract, should his proposals be accepted of by the Board of
                        Trustees…."
            
            
            Peter Jones from the Committee appointed to contract for and receive sundry materials for the
                    Seminary building—Reported that they have received of Samuel Thompson thirty eight
                    thousand one hundred and six Bricks. They have also received of Andrew Wilkins sixteen thousand nine
                    hundred and sixteen shingles. They have purchased of Benjamin Beckes Esqr. fourteen hundred and
                    fifty feet of plank at one Dollar and fifty cents per hundred feet. They have also purchased of
                    Abraham T. Snapp8 of plank at per hundred feet delivered at the place of
                    building for the purpose of covering the Bricks. They also beg leave to report that after they had
                    received a part of the Bricks Samuel Caruthers9 sold to Doctor McNamee seven
                    hundred Bricks as we are informed and that the said McNamee has taken them away.
            On Motion—Resolved that the sum of fifty one Dollars sixty two and one half cents be paid
                    by the Treasurer to Peter Jones in full for his advances made to sundry persons for the purchase of
                    plank and other incidental expences attending the piling and securing the Bricks for the Seminary
                    Building.
            On Motion—Resolved that a further sum of one hundred Dollars be advanced to Samuel
                    Thompson on his contract for furnishing Bricks for the Seminary Building agreably to his petition of
                    the 27th Ulto.
            On Motion—Resolved that the sum of seventy five dollars be advanced to Andrew Wilkins on
                    account of shingles to be furnished by him for the Seminary Building.
            
               
                  8 Abraham Snapp settled in 
                            Knox County
                         in 1784 and served as captain in the militia under the territorial and state
                        governments. Leonard Lux, "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Donation Lands" (Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications, Vol. XV, No. 4; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1949), 439; Dorothy Riker (ed.), Executive Proceedings of the State
                            of Indiana, 1816–1836 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXIX; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947), 207. He gave notice in the 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western, Sun, January 4, 1812, that he "intend [ed] to apply to the
                        next March term of the Court of Common Pleas…for leave to establish a Ferry on the 
                            Wabash
                        , about five miles above 
                            Vincennes
                        , from my land on the North side of the said river to the opposite shore."
                        At the "annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library on Monday 5th February 1810" Snapp was listed as having been
                        admitted to membership.
               
                  9 In December, 1808, Samuel Caruthers signed a petition sent to Congress
                        by some 200 
                            Knox County
                         settlers who opposed the then pending creation of Illinois Territory. Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 620. The Western Sun, April 28,
                        1810, published a "sworn deposition…by Samuel Caruthers" in which
                        he stated his opposition to slavery in the territory. Fifty acres of his land on Maria Creek
                        were listed for sale by the same paper, June 2, 1812, "to pay the tax and costs due
                        thereon."
            
            
            The following proposals were presented to the President and Board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University:
            Gentlemen
            Having long contemplated offering proposals for doing the Carpenter work of the University building I
                    have waited in expectation that an invitation for proposals would be published but as the season is
                    now fast approaching when provisions must be laid in for the support of the hands whom I shall
                    employ in the work (should I be fortunate enough to succeed in my application) I am induced to make
                    you the following proposals which I trust will be found as low as the work can be done for and I am
                    willing to give security for the true & faithful performance of the contract.
            I will do the whole Carpenter work which will be required at the 
                        Philadelphia
                     prices10 and find myself and hands. I will only ask reasonable
                    advances of money as the work progresses and will take one fourth part of the whole amount in lands
                    if required. The work will be completed at such time as will be agreed by the contract.
            I am Gentlemen with respect your friend, Novr. 27. 1807 Joshua Bond11
            
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of three members be appointed consisting of Judge 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Peter Jones, 
                  
                     10 The Carpenter's Company of the City and County of 
                                Philadelphia
                             was founded in 1724 and established a "book of prices…for
                            the valuation of carpenter's work…so that the workmen should have a fair
                            recompense for their labour and the owner receive the worth of his money." By the
                            early nineteenth century, this company, like other early building trades organizations,
                            corresponded with "masters" throughout the country, seeking to strengthen
                            and improve their economic status. John R. Commons et al., History of Labour in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1921–1935), I, 68, 81, 82, 112–118.
                  
                     11 Joshua Bond performed numerous carpentry jobs for the territorial
                            assembly and council and for the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company, of which he was a "charter member." His
                            advertisement of a "Five Dollars Reward" for an "apprentice by
                            the name of John Matson, bound to learn the House-Carpenter business" appeared in
                            the Indiana Gazette on September 18, 1804. He was named a trustee in the
                            "Act to Incorporate the Borough of 
                                Vincennes
                            " (1807) and served as justice of the peace in 
                                Knox County
                             from 1821 to 1826. On September 1, 1812, he announced in the Western Sun the opening of a "house of Public Entertainment"
                            which would provide "rest to the weary…liquors excellent, and just from 
                                Baltimore
                            …." A somewhat less openhanded advertisement on February 9,
                            1813, notified "all persons indebted to…Joshua Bond…that no
                            pains shall be spared, (on their settling up their accounts…), to accommodate
                            them with good, clear, and genuine receipts."
               
                     and William Bullitt to take into consideration the proposals of
                    Joshua Bond and that they report at the next meeting of the Board.
            Adjourned Sine die.
            At a Special meeting of the board on Tuesday [Thursday] 31st of December 1807 in pursuance of the
                    Presidents advertisement, a sufficient number of the members not attending in order to form a Quorum
                    the President with the concurrence of James Johnson, Elias McNamee, Peter Jones, and Johnston12 adjourned untill Tuesday the 5th of January 1808.
            Tuesday January 5th 1808
            At an adjourned meeting of the Board the following members were present vizt: Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Elias McNamee, and John Badollet when not being able to form a Quorum they Adjourned
                    untill Saturday the 9th of January.
            Saturday January 9th 1808
            The Board met according to Adjournment present the following members vizt: William H. Harrison
                    President, John Johnson, Elias McNamee, Francis Vigo, John Gibson, Charles Smith, George Leech,
                    Peter Jones, Jacob Kuykendall, Nathl. Ewing, John Badollet, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Luke Decker, and James Johnson.
            Henry Vanderburg from the Committee appointed to take into consideration the proposals of Joshua Bond
                    REPORTED:
            That they have had according to order the said proposals under consideration but they forbear giving
                    any opinion on the reasonableness of them under an impression that the Board on further deliberation
                    will concur in opinion with them that in order to exempt the Trustees from all blame 
                  
                     12 Presumably John Johnson, since General 
                                Washington
                            
                            Johnston was not at this time a member of the Board.
               
                     and to render their conduct uniform by disposing of the present
                    contract in the same manner that other contracts relative to the said Building have been disposed of
                    there ought to be inserted in the Western Sun and in a Kentucky paper for the space of one month at
                    least an advertisement inviting workmen to give in proposals to undertake the said the [sic] Building.
            On Motion—The question was shall the Board concur in the said report & the same
                    was decided in the negative.
            William H. Dunica13 laid proposals before the Board for doing the Carpenters and
                    Joiners work of the Seminary Building.
            On Motion—Resolved that the proposition of Joshua Bond to do the Building of the
                    University at ten per Cent lower than the 
                        Philadelphia
                     prices be accepted [and] a Committee of John Badollet, Nathl. Ewing, and Charles Smith
                    be appointed to enter into the contract. The performance of which to be secured by sufficient
                    securities.
            William Lindsay14 laid in proposals for doing the stone work & laying the
                    bricks of the Seminary Building.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn sine die.
            Wednesday February 10th 1808
            The Board met in pursuance of and agreably to the Presidents advertisement. Present the following
                    members vizt: William H. Harrison President, John Badollet, Jacob 
                  
                     13 The Western Sun of June 10, 1809, carried the
                            following facetious announcement: "One cent Reward & no
                                Thanks. Left me in April last an apprentice to the house-carpenter and joiners
                            business named William Strickling, about eighteen years old, large of his age, whosoever
                            will bring the said apprentice to me shall receive the above reward by me. William H.
                            Dunnica."
                  
                     14 Contemporary documents indicate that this name was usually spelled
                            "Lindsey," rather than "Lindsay," as it appears here.
                            William Lindsey was commissioned as lieutenant in the Indiana militia on April 26, 1817. In
                            August, 1815, he was involved in a dispute with the "Trustees of the Borough of 
                                Vincennes
                            ," who ordered that "the acct…. in favor of Will
                            Lindsay for Brick work done to the Market-house of Thirty dollars, be rejected and in lieu
                            thereof, the Treasurer is ordered to pay him Twenty five Dollars…."
                            Logan Esarey (contrib.) "
                                Vincennes
                            ' First City Government," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, V (March, 1909), 18, 19, 21; Riker, Executive
                            Proceedings, 52. The 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company, at its meeting of April 2, 1814, "ordered that
                            William Lindsey be fined twenty five cents for the damage done…to Parkes
                            Travels…taken out on [his] share."
               
                     Kuykendall, Francis Vigo, John Gibson, Charles Smith, John
                    Johnson, William Bullit, Samuel McKee, James Johnson, John R. Jones.
            On Motion—Resolved that the President be authorized to draw upon the Treasurer for such
                    monies as the Committee appointed to contract for materials for the University may deem necessary
                    for carrying into effect any contract which they are authorized to make and that the President do
                    report to the Board at each meeting the amount of monies so drawn and in whose favour.
            On Motion—Resolved that it shall be the duty of the Clerk to draw up all contracts which
                    the several Committees appointed to contract for materials etc. for the University may enter into.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of three members be appointed to contract with Francis
                    Vigo for the purchase of a strip of ground he owns between the College lot and the street in 
                        Vincennes
                     on the same terms in proportion to the Quantity of ground as the lot for the University
                    Building was purchased of Judge Vanderburg;15 that they take a Conveyance for
                    the said strip of ground and that the President draw on the Treasurer for the purchase money agreed
                    on and the same was appointed consisting of John R. Jones, John Johnson, & William Bullitt.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board do adjourn.
            Thursday March 31. 1808
            A number of the members of the Board met in pursuance of the Presidents Advertisement and Adjourned
                    untill the next Stated meeting.
            Monday April 4. 1808
            At a stated meeting16 of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University the following members were present: 
                  
                     15 For an explanation of the terms under which land was purchased from
                            Henry 
                                Vanderburgh
                            , see Robert Constantine (ed.), "Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 332.
                  
                     16 The Act of Incorporation called for "stated meetings,
                            which shall be held on the first Monday, of April and October, yearly, and every
                            year…." Philbrick, Lows of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, p. 179.
               
                     William H. Harrison President, John Johnson, Nathl. Ewing,
                    Samuel McKee, Jr., F. Vigo, P. Jones, Charles Smith, James Johnson, John R. Jones, Jacob Kuykendall,
                    Henry Vanderburg, Genl. Gibson, John Badollet, and George Leech.
            On Motion—Ordered that the President be directed to make a title to Robert Anderson for N.
                    W. Qr. of section 28 and that the said Anderson be allowed to apply the surplus money by him paid on
                    N. E. Qr. Section 27 to complete the payment on N. W. Qr. 28 and that the Treasurer adjust said
                    Andersons account on the basis of this Resolution.17
            
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of three members be appointed to enquire into the
                    state of the several contracts entered into by the different Committees and for what sums and at
                    what times the Board will be called on to pay in the course of the ensuing summer and the same was
                    appointed of Samuel McKee, Henry Vanderburg, and Charles Smith.
            On Motion—Ordered that this Board proceed to the election of a member to supply the
                    vacancy occasioned by the resignation of two members of the Board of Trustees.18
            
            The Board accordingly proceeded to the election of a member and upon counting the ballots Robert
                        Buntin19 was declared to be duly elected.
            On Motion—Ordered that a Committee of two members be appointed to wait on Robert Buntin
                    & inform [him] of his election as a member of the Board and the same was appointed of James
                    Johnson and John R. Jones.
            On Motion—Resolved that the proposals of William Lindsay for laying the Brick of the
                    University Building be 
                  
                     17 Anderson's purchase of land from 
                                Vincennes
                             University is described in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LIV (December, 1958), 333–334.
                  
                     18 The Act of Incorporation empowered the Board to fill vacancies
                            "by electing one for every two whose seats may be so vacated, so that the whole
                            number shall not be less than fifteen…." Philbrick, Laws of
                                Indiana Territory, 1801–1809, 179–180.
                  
                     19 Robert Buntin was clerk of the 
                                Knox County
                             court from 1795 to 1823, served briefly as recorder of deeds
                            (1800–1801), and was named one of nine trustees in the act incorporating the
                            borough of 
                                Vincennes
                             (1807). Legal notices over his name appeared frequently in the Western Sun throughout his tenure as clerk. An original subscriber to the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library (1806), Buntin was a member of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Masonic Lodge and a director of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Bank. Riker, Executive Proceedings, 7; Louis B. Ewbank and
                            Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809–1816
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 853–854; Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, p. 514.
               
                     accepted and that a Committee of three members be appointed to
                    contract with him and that they be authorized to make him such advances as they may deem reasonable
                    and Judge of the sufficiency of the security he may offer and the same was appointed of John
                    Johnson, F. Vigo, and Chas. Smith.
            On Motion—Resolved that Eleven O'clock A.M. be the stated hour for the meeting of
                    the Board in future.
            On Motion—Ordered that a Committee be appointed to enquire into the conduct of Jonathan
                        Jennings20 as Clerk of the Board of Trustees and report at [the] meeting to
                    be held on the last Saturday of June. And the same was appointed of Henry Vanderburg, Genl. John
                    Gibson, John R. Jones, James Johnson, Robert Buntin, and George Leech.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn.
            Saturday May 21. 1808
            At a special meeting of the Board in pursuance of the Presidents Advertisement the following members
                    were present: William H. Harrison President, Nathaniel Ewing, John Badollet, Francois Vigo, John
                    Johnson, Samuel McKee, Charles Smith, James Johnson, Genl. J. Gibson, Henry Vanderburg, Peter Jones,
                    Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee.
            Resolved that Governor Harrison, John Badollet, and Charles Smith be appointed a standing Committee
                    to superintend the Building of the Seminary and that they have full power to direct the undertakers
                    of said Building in what manner to proceed in all cases not provided for.
            Resolved that a Committee of seven members be appointed to obtain of Colo. Vigo a piece of land in
                    front of the Seminary Lot and that the said Committee have authority to effect the same by purchase
                    or by exchanging a part of the Seminary Lot for the said piece of land and that they be further
                    authorized to determine as to the Quantity to be purchased and that which is to be given in
                    exchange.
            Ordered that Genl. John Gibson and Henry Vanderburgh be appointed a Committee to settle with Mr.
                    William Lindsay for digging the cellar of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            
               
                  20 Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                        (December, 1958), 355, n. 59, indicates the outcome of the committee inquiry and includes a
                        brief sketch of Jennings' career.
            
            
            Agreably to an order of the Board the Treasurer produced his account of Receipts &
                    expenditures which on motion was referred to a Committee of two Consisting of Robert Buntin and
                    Elias McNamee.
            On Motion—Ordered that John D. Hay be appointed Clerk pro tem to this Board and that he
                    receive two Dollars for each days service.
            Resolved that to the original plan of the Seminary Building dormant & gable end windows shall
                    be added and that the number and distribution of them shall be left to the determination of the
                    standing Committee of superintendance.
            Resolved that a Committee of three be appointed to enquire into the Contract of William Hogue for
                    furnishing the timber for the University and enquire whether the said Hogue ought to have any
                    further Compensation for furnishing said Timber and that they report their opinion at the next
                    meeting. The Committee to consist of Peter Jones, Doctor Kuykendall, and Doctor McKee.
            Ordered that the Board Adjourn untill the 28th Inst.
            Saturday 28 May 1808
            At and [sic] adjourned meeting of the Board the following members were present
                    vizt: William Henry Harrison President, John Gibson, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Francis Vigo, James Johnson, Nathaniel Ewing, Robert Buntin, Saml. McKee, Peter Jones,
                    John Johnson, Charles Smith, Elias McNamee.
            Resolved that William Hogue be allowed a further sum of Seventy Dollars in addition to the sum of one
                    hundred and fifty dollars & thirty five cents which brings the whole amount of his credit
                    for Timber delivered prior to this date to Two hundred and twenty Dollars and thirty five cents.
            Resolved that the Committee appointed to sell the Lands of the University be authorized to sell
                    twelve Quarter Sections for a price not less than $2.50 and that the Treasurer be
                    directed to urge the payment of the Instalments which now are or which may become due in the course
                    of the summer on the sales heretofore made.
            The Committee appointed to enquire into the state of monies due on Contracts made a Report in detail
                    of twenty  Eight hundred Dollars which sum will become due in
                    the course of the present summer & fall.
            Henry Vanderburg from the Committee appointed to contract with Colo. Vigo for a piece of Land for the
                    benefit of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Reported that they have agreed with said Vigo for a piece of ground
                    extending along the whole front of the University ground and of the depth of 25 Toises21 french measure supposed to contain three Lots of 25 Toises square each for which they
                    agreed to give to the said Vigo Two Lots of equal size of 25 Toises square each to be taken off at
                    the South West corner of the University land and to pay him for the residue at the rate of sixty
                    Dollars for every twenty five Toises square.
            Ordered that this report be confirmed.
            Resolved that the Standing Rules of this Board be so far altered as to allow the President to Vote on
                    any Question whenever his vote will be the same.
            Resolved that the Treasurer be directed to make a statement of what monies are due to the 
                        Vincennes
                     University and when they are payable and report to the next meeting of the Board.
            On Motion—Ordered that the sum of Eight Dollars & Sixty five cents be paid by the
                    Treasurer of the Board to Geo. Wallace Jr. which sum he paid to Conrad & Co. for advertising
                    in Ralphs Gazette.22
            
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn.
            [From time to time land sale transactions similar to the following were recorded in the minutes book.
                    While they are not, properly speaking, minutes, they are reproduced here and wherever else they
                    occur as part of the record of the Board's deliberations.]
            
               
                  21 The terms toise (a linear measure of 6.395 feet) and arpent (acre) were
                        commonly used in the minutes throughout this period.
               
                  22 No trace of "Ralph's Gazette" has been
                        found. Clarence A. Brigham, History and Bibliography of American Newspapers
                            1690–1820, II, 949–950, lists a Relf's 
                                Philadelphia
                             Gazette, which was published from 1803 to 1820. The fact that George
                        Wallace was a merchant and that there were intimate commercial relations between 
                            Philadelphia
                         and 
                            Vincennes
                         at this time raises the possibility that the university's advertisement
                        appeared in "Relf's Gazette." Unfortunately, a
                        search of the incomplete files of this paper at the American Antiquarian Society (
                            Worcester
                        , Mass.) and the Library Company of 
                            Philadelphia
                         failed to disclose advertisements for 
                            Vincennes
                         University.
            
            
            June 16th 1808. Received of Mathias Mounce23 One hundred and twenty Dollars in
                    part of the first installment on the S. W. Qr. Section 27 at two & one half Dollars per
                    acre.
            James Johnson Treasurer
            June 21t. 1808. Received of Mathias Mounce twenty Dollars the ballance of the first installment on S.
                    W. Qr. Sec. 27 at 21/2 Dollars per acre.
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer
            February 7th 1808. Received of William Harrington one hundred and thirty three Dollars &
                    thirty one & a fourth cents in part for Seminary lands second instalment S. E. Qr. Sec. 11
                    at $2.50 per acre.
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer
            June 16th 1807. Recd, of William Harrington the sum of One hundred and Eighty Dollars &
                    Eighty three cents for N. E. Qr. Sec. 14 at two Dollars.
            James Johnson
            Saturday September 16th 1808
            The Board met in pursuance of the Presidents Advertisement and the following members were present:
                    William Henry Harrison President, John R. Jones, Henry Vanderburg, Robert Buntin, Charles Smith,
                    Waller Taylor, John Johnson, George Leech, Jacob Kuykendall, John Gibson, Saml. McKee, and James
                    Johnson.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Committee for the sale of the seminary lands be and they are
                    hereby authorized to 
                  
                     23 Mathias Motmce came to the "
                                Princeton
                             settlement" in 1807 and later (1811) was "the first [mail]
                            carrier…from White river, at Decker's Ferry…to 
                                Louisville
                            ." Leonora Paxton Miller, "Early English Shoppers in 
                                Princeton
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVIII (September,
                            1952), 290; Gil R. Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 54–55; George R. Wilson. "Early Indiana Trails and
                            Surveys" (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. VI, No.
                            3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 374.
               
                     sell a Quantity of land not exceeding six Quarter sections for
                    a price not less than Two Dollars per Acre.
            On Motion—Resolved that Joshua Bond who has contracted to do the Joiners work of the
                    Seminary be and he is hereby authorized to locate two Quarter sections in the Seminary Township in
                    part payment of his contract and that he be charged therefor at the rate of $2.50 per
                    acre.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of three members be appointed to draft a plan for
                    leasing the Seminary lands and that they report at the next meeting and the same was appointed of
                    John Johnson, John R. Jones, and Robert Buntin.
            Waller Taylor resigned his seat as a member of this Board.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn sine die. And the Board Adjourned accordingly.
            Wednesday October 19. 1808
            The following members of the Board met in pursuance of the Presidents proclamation vizt: William
                    Henry Harrison President, Nathaniel Ewing, James Johnson, Luke Decker, Elias McNamee, John Gibson,
                    Robert Buntin.
            Who not being sufficient to form a Board adjourned sine die.
            Received 21st Octr. 1808 of Mr. Thomas Potter one hundred and six Dollars and one third being one
                    third of the amount of his purchase money of South East Quarter of Section No. One in Township No.
                    Two South of Range No. Eleven West belonging to the 
                        Vincennes
                     University contracted for by him this day with the Committee.
            for James Johnson Treasurer [by] Nathaniel Ewing
            Monday November 21st 1808
            The Board met in pursuance of the Presidents advertisement when the following members were present:
                    William  Henry Harrison President, John Gibson, Henry
                    Vanderburg, Luke Decker, Jacob Kuykendall, Robert Buntin, Peter Jones, Saml. McKee, Charles Smith,
                    & John Johnson.
            The Resignation of Jonathan Jennings as Clerk of the Board was received and read—After
                    which the Board elected John D. Hay their Clerk by a unanimous vote. The Board then went into an
                    election for a member—When Benjamin Parke24 was elected unanimously.
            Resolved that the application of William Lindsay be referred to the Committee who entered into the
                    original contract with him.
            Resolved that the Committee appointed to contract with Mr. Lindsay be and they are hereby authorized
                    to advance to him on his contract a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty Dollars.
            Resolved that the Board now adjourn untill Wednesday the 7th day of December next at One
                    O'Clock.
            Wednesday Decemr. 7th 1808
            The following members met agreably to adjournment: John Gibson, Benjn. Parke, Jacob Kuykendall, and
                    Charles Smith who not being sufficient to form a Board adjourned untill this day week at three
                    O'Clock.
            Wednesday [Thursday] Decr. 15th 1808
            The following members met agreably to adjournment: Henry Vanderburg, B. Parke, Jacob Kuykendall, E.
                    McNamee, Jno. Johnson, Chas. Smith, & Jno. Gibson—Who not being sufficient to
                    form a Board Adjourned untill this day two weeks.
            
               
                  24 Benjamin Parke was named a trustee of the university in its Act of
                        Incorporation. His first resignation was read at the Board's meeting of September 12,
                        1807. Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958),
                    364.
            
            
            Novr. 5th 1808. Recd, of Samuel Hogue25 & Isaac Woods One Hundred
                    & six Dollars & sixty cents first instalment on S. E. Qr. Sec. 21 at 2 Dollars pr.
                    Acre.
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer Seminary Township
            Novr. 5th 1808. Received of Joseph Woods26 one hundred & sixty six
                    & two third Cts. first instalment on S. W. Qr. Sec. 23 and fifty six Dollars & fifty
                    cents in part of second instalment this includes the interest for one year for prompt payment.
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer
            Wednesday Decr. 28th 1808
            The following members met agreably to adjournment: John Gibson, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Benjn. Parke, Peter Jones, John Johnson, Jacob Kuykendall, Saml. McKee, E. McNamee,
                    Charles Smith, & Robert Buntin. Genl. Gibson was elected President Pro Tem.
            Resolved that William Lindsay be allowed the sum of twenty two Dollars for counting forty thousand
                    Bricks and measuring 1200 bushels of lime.
            Resolved that the claim of William Lindsay be recommitted to the same Committee who had under
                    consideration the claim of said Lindsay and reported thereon and that the 
                  
                     25 Samuel Hogue brought his family from Virginia to "the 
                                Princeton
                             settlement" in 1803 and later (1810) helped to found "the
                            Reformed Presbyterian (Covenanter) Church" there. Robert Archer Woods,"
                            "Presbyterianism in 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, from 1810–1930," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXVI (June, 1930), 93n, 97–98. He was commissioned as
                            lieutenant in the territorial militia on November 6, 1813. William Wesley Woollen, Daniel
                            Wait Howe, and Jacob Piatt Dunn (eds.), "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory,
                            1800–1816" (Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            Vol. III, No. 3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 203.
                  
                     26 Joseph Woods came from Virginia to 
                                Princeton
                             in 1807. The area settled by him and his numerous descendants came to be called
                            "Woods settlement," and the charge was made that "at the
                            elections, the Woods and Montgomery families, by putting their members together, might elect
                            any candidate they chose…." Woods, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXVI (June, 1930), p. 93, n. 3; Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , 51–52.
               
                     Committee notify the said Lindsay to appear before them with
                    his Testimony.
            On Motion—Ordered that Peter Jones be added to the Committee before mentioned.
            Resolved that Benjamin Parke be allowed the sum of Twelve Dollars for his expences in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Seminary Lottery.
            Adjourned untill the 3d Wednesday in January next at 3 O'Clock.
            Wednesday January 18th 1809
            The following members met agreably to Adjournment vizt: Henry Vanderburg, Benjamin Parke, Jacob
                    Kuykendall, Charles Smith, & Peter Jones who not being sufficient to form a Board adjourned
                    untill this day week at 2 O'Clock.
            Wednesday January 25th 1809
            The following members met agreably to Adjournment vizt: John Gibson, Benjn. Parke, John Johnson,
                    Jacob Kuykendall, Charles Smith, Peter Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNamee, Saml. McKee, &
                    Robert Buntin. Judge Parke Elected President Pro Tem.
            John Johnson from the Committee to whom the claim of William Lindsay was referred made the following
                    verbal report, vizt: That the Committee felt a delicacy in receiving the Testimony of said William
                    Lindsay relative to his claim. Therefore the Committee recommend to the Board to examine the
                    evidence of said Lindsay in Person.
            On Motion—Resolved that the report be received.
            On Motion—Resolved that Mr. Lindsay be permitted to bring his Testimony before the Board.
            William H. Harrison Esqr. appeared and took the Chair.
            The Board after examining the evidence on the part of Wm. Lindsay relative to his claims for damages
                    sustained by him in consequence of a delay occasioned for the want of lime in building the Seminary
                    from the 16th day of July to the 12th August.
            
            Resolved that the claim of the said Lindsay be rejected.
            John Johnson from the Committee to whom was referred the drawing of a plan for leasing the Seminary
                    lands Reported the following plan:
            Each Lessee shall clear on[e] Quarter section 25 acres to clear all the Timber off the same Eighteen
                    inches and under and to put five acres of said cleared land in Meadow or grass and to make a good
                    and lawful fence round the same. Each lease to continue five years and no longer. Each Lessee must
                    build a good cabin at least eighteen by twenty feet to be hewed inside and out, and to leave the
                    Cabin and fences in good repair.
            Resolved that the Report of the Committee appointed to draft a plan for leasing the Seminary lands be
                    adopted and [as] that which shall govern in leasing said Land and that a Committee of three be
                    appointed to make Leases agreably to the terms of said Report, whose duty it shall be to give public
                    Notice of their powers in the premises. The Committee to consist of Benjamin Parke, Jno. Johnson,
                    & Robert Buntin.27
            
            On Motion—Ordered That the Board now adjourn.
            Monday April 3d 1809
            This day being the time for one [of] the half yearly meetings of the Board of Trustees the following
                    members appeared vizt: William Henry Harrison, Jacob Kuykendall, Charles Smith, John Gibson, Peter
                    Jones, Benjamin Parke. There not being a quorum of members present Adjourned.
            Wednesday April 12th 1809
            The following met agreably to a notice given in writing by order of the President vizt: William Henry
                    Harrison President, Henry Vanderburg, John Gibson, Benjamin Parke, François Vigo, Jacob
                    Kuykendall, John Johnson, Charles Smith, Elias McNamee, Nathaniel Ewing, John Badollet, and Samuel
                    McKee.
            
               
                  27 This plan was published in the Western Sun, March 25,
                        1809, over the names of Parke, Johnson, and Buntin.
            
            
            Doctor McNamee having been absent at three Stated meetings28 plead in excuse that
                    he was not intentionally absent.
            On Motion—Ordered that the excuse of Doctor McNamee be admitted.
            On Motion—Ordered that the President be directed to make a Title to Robert M. Evans for
                    the North West Quarter of Section One Town [ship] Two South Range Eleven West Containing one hundred
                    & sixty acres.
            On Motion—Ordered that the President be directed to make a Title to Isaac Montgomery for
                    the North East Quarter of Section thirteen Township two South Range Eleven West containing one
                    hundred & Sixty Acres.
            James Lindsay29 in behalf of his Father William Lindsay applied to the Board
                    & requested them to arbitrate the claim of said Lindsay against the Board. Which the Board
                    agreed to & appointed a Committee to superintend said Arbitration. The Committee to consist
                    of Judges 
                        Vanderburgh
                     & Parke, John Johnson & E. McNamee & ordered the said Committee
                    be authorized to act for the Board in all cases relative to the said Arbitration.
            Ordered that the Board adjourn.
            Saturday May 27. 1809
            At a meeting of the Board agreably to the request of three members Vizt: Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , John Rice Jones, & Robert Buntin; and of advertisements put up for the time
                        
                  
                     28 A provision of the Act of Incorporation required "that the
                            places of any of the said trustees, who shall…wilfully absent
                            himself…from three stated meetings, shall from time to time, be supplied by the
                            board of trustees…." Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, p. 179.
                  
                     29 As previously pointed out in note 14, contemporary documents
                            indicate that this name was usually spelled "Lindsey," not
                            "Lindsay." James Lindsey was a blacksmith by trade, served as justice of
                            the peace in 
                                Gibson County
                             (1815), and was foreman of the first coroner's jury in that county. On
                            two different occasions (August 11, 1810, and February 1, 1812) he offered a "Two
                            Dollars Reward" in the Western Sun for "a bright bay
                            horse [which] had strayed from the 
                                Vincennes
                             common…," and from time to time he advertised "for
                            sale, a first rate wagon,…hind gears, cheap,…and some valuable
                            horses…." Margaret Story Jean and Aline Jean Trenor, "The First
                            Families of White Oak Springs, 1810–1817," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, XXXVI (September, 1940), 253, 261, 264.
               
                     required by law the following members were present: John
                    Gibson, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , John Rice Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Benjn. Parke, Elias McNamee, James Johnson, John
                    Johnson, & Charles Smith. There not being a Quorum of members present Adjourned untill
                    Tuesday next at 10 O'Clock A.M.
            Tuesday May 30th 1809
            The Board met agreably to adjournment When the following members were present vizt: John Rice Jones,
                    Charles Smith, Elias McNamee, Benjn. Parke, Robert Buntin, John Gibson, Jacob Kuykendall, Samuel
                    McKee, James Johnson, John Johnson, and Nathl. Ewing.
            The Treasurer of the Board made a Report in writing of the State of the funds of the Institution
                    & requested that a Committee be appointed to examine the same.
            Ordered that a Committee to consist of two members viz. John Johnson & John Rice Jones
                    examine the Treasurers report & report thereon at the next meeting of the Board.
            On Motion—Ordered That a Committee of three be appointed viz. John Rice Jones, Robert
                    Buntin, and Charles Smith to enquire whether it would be expedient to strike off the third Story
                    above the basement Story from the plan of the Seminary Building and to enquire of the different
                    Committees for contracting for materials the State of the Several contracts and also to enquire what
                    State the building is in & what quantity of materials would be lost by the proposed change
                    & what would be saved to the Institution by such change and also to enquire & report
                    what would be the extra expence of putting in dormant windows to the building & that they
                    report at the next meeting of the Board.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn untill this day week at 3 O'Clock.
            Tuesday June 6th 1809
            The Board met according to adjournment when the following members were present viz: William Henry
                    Harrison President, John Rice Jones, Saml. McKee, François Vigo,  Peter Jones, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Benjn. Parke, James Johnson, John Johnson, Nathl. Ewing, Luke Decker, John Gibson,
                    Jacob Kuykendall.
            Luke Decker having been absent Two stated meetings he was called upon to State his reasons of such
                        [sic] his absence when upon hearing his excuse the Board decided that his
                    excuse was sufficient and that he retain his seat.
            The Committee appointed on the 30th Ult. to examine & report upon the Treasurers report on
                    the same day Reported that they had examined the account of the said Treasurer with the original
                    Vouchers & find the whole to be correct. And on motion made and seconded that the Board
                    concur with the said report it was Resolved in the affirmative.
            Mr. Jones from the Committee appointed on the 30th Ult. to examine into the State of the University
                    building made report which being taken into consideration. It was moved & seconded that the
                    Board do agree to the following resolution:
            Resolved that it will be expedient to strike off the third story from the basement of the plan of the
                    Seminary building and that it will be inexpedient to put dormant windows to the said building.
            A division of the Question being called for at the word building in the third line, the question was
                    put in the following words "Resolved that it will be expedient to strike off the third
                    story from from [sic] the basement of the plan of the Seminary building. And
                    Resolved in the affirmative. And the second member of the said Resolution being taken into
                    consideration the motion was put in the following words "And that it will be inexpedient to
                    put dormant windows to the said building." And Resolved in the negative.
            The second Resolution Reported by the said Committee in the words following vizt:
            "Resolved that it will be expedient to proceed without delay to the finishing of the said
                    building or at least to have the roof put on and all the doors & windows made &
                    closed before the end of the present season" was then taken into consideration, and on a
                    Motion being made and seconded that the Board do agree to the said Resolution, it was Resolved in
                    the affirmative.
            
            The following Motions were then made and agreed to:
            "On Motion—Ordered that the Committee for superintending the Seminary building be
                    instructed to make use of every effort in their power to have the building covered and at least one
                    room completely finished as soon as possible so as that it may be made use of as a school house.
            Resolved also that the superintending Committee be and they are hereby instructed to contract for
                    erecting and sinking a Stone well on such part of the Seminary Lot as they may think the most
                    beneficial to the institution.
            And then the Board Adjourned.
            Recd. October 8th 1809 of Thomas Potter one hundred and six Dollars and thirty seven and 1/2 cents
                    second Instalment on S. E. qr. Sec. 1 at two Dollars pr. acre.
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer
            Recd. Novr. 4 1809 of Samuel Hogue & Isaac Woods one hundred & seven dollars second
                    Instalment on S. E. qr. Sec. 21 at two Dolls, per Acre Semy. Township.
            Jas. Johnson
            Recd. Novr. 4 1809 of Joseph Woods fifty five Dollars part of second Instalment on S. W. qr. Sec. 23
                    at two Dollars per Acre semy. Township.
            Jas. Johnson
            January 3d 1810. Recd, of Burkett Hughes Twenty five Dollars & seventy five cents in part of
                    first Instalment on N. W. qr. Sec. 34 Seminary Lands.30
            
            Jas. Johnson Treasurer
            Wednesday February 7th 1810
            The following members met agreably to the call of the President vizt: William Henry Harrison
                    President, John 
                  
                     30 In selling this quarter section of land to Hughes, the Board
                            "sold beyond the 4000 Acres which they were by Law authorised to sell,"
                            and a special act of the legislature was subsequently passed on December 19, 1810,
                            confirming the sale. Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1809–1816, pp. 722–723.
               
                     Gibson, Henry Vanderburg, Jacob Kuykendall, & Robert
                    Buntin. There not being a sufficient number present to form a Board Adjourned untill half past three
                    O'Clock of the same day When the following members were present: William Henry Harrison
                    President, John Gibson, Henry Vanderburg, Nathl. Ewing, John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Robert
                    Buntin, Elias McNamee, Chs. Smith, John Johnson, & Peter Jones.
            Resolved that the Committee for contracting with William Hogue for furnishing scantling for the
                    Seminary be authorized to allow for the additional Scantling he has furnished the same price which
                    was allowed for the timber furnished upon his (Hogues) contract.
            Resolved On Motion—Resolved that the Committee for contracting for the sinking &
                    building a well on the Seminary ground be excused from performing that duty untill further Orders.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board do adjourn untill Saturday two weeks.
            Board of Trustees February 24. 1810
            This being the day to which the Board adjourned on the 7th Instant but a quorum of the Board failing
                    to attend Adjourned Sine die.
            Board [of] Trustees March 24th 1810
            Three members of the Board (in the absence of the President) having advertised the present meeting
                    There was present: Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Nathl. Ewing, Robert Buntin, Chs. Smith, James Johnson, John Johnson, Peter Jones,
                    John Gibson Senr., and George Leech a majority of the whole number of members.
            On Motion—Henry Vanderburg took the Chair as President pro Tem. Peter Jones declining to
                    act as Clerk pro Tem of the Board. Upon his nomination G. W. Johnston was unanimously elected as
                    Clerk pro Tem.31
            
            
               
                  31 Johnston had been elected clerk of the Board at its first meeting on
                        December 6, 1806. He resigned as clerk and member on August 17, 1807. Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 321, 357.
            
            
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of three members be appointed to contract for nails
                    and other materials which may be necessary to compleat the Seminary upon the best terms they can.
                    That they or a majority of them do draw upon the Treasurer of the Board for the cost thereof which
                    order shall be countersigned by the President for the time being and paid by the Treasurer, and that
                    they report thereon from time to time to this Board. Whereupon the same was appointed consisting of
                    H. Vanderburgh, Gibson, & Jones.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of four members be appointed to examine into the
                    present State of the Seminary—Whether the different contracts heretofore entered into for
                    materials have been complied with and what materials if any are necessary for its
                    completion—And that they report to the Board at the ensuing annual meeting and the same
                    was appointed consisting of Messrs. Ewing, Badollet, McNamee, & Smith.
            Adjourned Sine die.
            Board of Trustees Apl. 2nd 1810
            This being the day appointed by law for the annual meeting of the Board there were present: Henry
                    Vanderburg, Frangois Vigo, Elias McNamee, James Johnson, John Badollet, Nathl. Ewing, John Johnson,
                    Robert Buntin, and Jacob Kuykendall. Majority of the whole number of members.
            On Motion—Henry Vanderburg took the Chair as President pro Tem.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Board do adjourn untill Wednesday 11th Instant to 3
                    O'Clock P.M.
            Board of Trustees April 11th 1810
            This being the day to which the Board last adjourned there were present: William H. Harrison
                    President, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Peter Jones, Geo. Leech, Nathl. Ewing, Elias McNamee, François Vigo, Jacob
                    Kuykendall, John Gibson,  James Johnson, Benja. Parke, Jno.
                    Badollet, Jno. Johnson, Chs. Smith, & Luke Decker.
            Messrs. Harrison, Gibson, & Smith having attended at 12 O'Clock on the day of the
                    last annual meeting but not attending at 6 O'Clock P.M. (the hour at which the Board agreed
                    to meet and they being uninformed thereof. It is therefore Ordered that they be & hereby are
                    considered as present at said meeting.
            On Motion—The Board proceeded to the Election of a member when upon counting the Ballots
                    Touissaints Dubois32 was declared duly elected and On further motion ordered
                    that the Clerk do inform him thereof.
            Mr. Vanderburg from the Committee for procuring materials reported verbally that the Committee had
                    made some progress therein.
            Mr. Ewing from the Committee to inspect the present state of the Seminary reported verbally that the
                    Committee had made some progress therein, And desired leave for further time to report in detail.
                    Whereupon On Motion the same is granted.
            Mr. McNamee laid before the Board propositions from Mark Dunning33 for doing the
                    Blacksmithing work necessary for the seminary.
            On Motion—Ordered that the same be referred to the Committee for contracting for
                    materials.
            On Motion—Ordered that Deeds do issue to the following persons to wit:
            William Harrington, S. E. qr. Sec. 11
            Mathias Mounce, S. W. qr. Sec. 27
            It appearing from the Statements made by the Treasurer that they have severally paid up for their
                    said respective Quarter Sections.
            Present Robert Buntin.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Committee appointed to contract for Nails and other materials
                    be & they are hereby 
                  
                     32 Dubois had been earlier (1806–1807) associated with the
                            Board of Trustees as one of five "managers" of the university's
                            unsuccessful lottery. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 323, n. 21.
                  
                     33 The Western Sun of October 14, 1809, carried
                            Dunning's notice to "all persons indebted to the subscriber…to
                            come forward on or before the 15th November next, and pay off their respective ballances, or
                            give their notes—those who neglect this notice may expect to find their accounts
                            in the hands of the proper officers for collection."
               
                     empowered to examine the Contracts made by the Committee for
                    superintending the Seminary building and liquidate the accounts incurred by said Commee. and give
                    orders in the usual way for all monies due on said contracts. And report the same to this Board.
            Mr. Thomas Randolph34 appeared before the Board and a Committee on the part of
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge of Free Masons made verbal propositions to enter into an agreement with the Board
                    for the finishing of two Rooms in the Seminary for the purpose of a Lodge room.35
            
            Whereupon On Motion—Ordered that a Committee of three members be appointed on the part of
                    this Board to confer with the above Committee on the part of the Lodge and that they report their
                    progress therein to this Board at its next meeting—thereupon the same was appointed
                    consisting of Messrs. Parke, Ewing, & Jno. Johnson. Adjourned Sine die.
            June 14th 1810
            This being the day appointed by the President agreable to an advertisement. Members present: Wm. H.
                    Harrison, Peter Jones, Charles Smith, Henry Vanderburg, John Gibson, 
                  
                            
                        34 Thomas 
                                    Randolph
                                 was a native Virginian who moved to 
                                    Vincennes
                                 in April, 1808, and was appointed attorney-general for the territory the
                                following month. Until his death at Tippecanoe in November, 1811, he was an articulate
                                "Harrison man" in politics and was that faction's
                                unsuccessful candidate for delegate to Congress against Jonathan Jennings in May, 1809.
                                On June 10, 1809, the Western Sun printed 
                                    Randolph
                                's "hope [that] a polite invitation to meet me on the
                                other side of the river W abash…will be accepted" by Elias McNamee,
                                a political opponent and a 
                                    Quaker
                                , who rejected the "polite invitation."
                            Earlier (April 15, 1809), the same paper printed an interesting letter submitted by 
                                    Randolph
                                 in which he "yield[ed] the point" that "the
                                great majority of the people of the Territory" were opposed to "the
                                introduction of negroes." The minutes of the 
                                    Vincennes
                                 Library Company record 
                                    Randolph
                                's purchase of a share in that organization on April 7, 1808.
                                Philbrick, Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809, ccxlii;
                                Dorothy Riker (ed.), "Unedited Letters of Jonathan Jennings" (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. X, No. 4: 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1932), 169.
                        
                  
                     35 The 
                                Vincennes
                             Lodge of Masons was granted a dispensation by the Grand Lodge of Kentucky on
                            August 27, 1807, and received its charter on August 31,1809. Daniel McDonald, A
                                History of Freemasonry in Indiana from 1806 to 1898 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 16. On July 15, 1809, the Western Sun printed in full
                            the "Masonic Oration" delivered by General 
                                Washington
                             Johnston before the "
                                Vincennes
                             Lodge, A. L. 5809…on the anniversary of St. John the
                            Baptist."
               
                     Touissants Dubois, James Johnson, Jacob Kuykendall, and John
                    Johnson.
            On Motion—Resolved that William Lindsy [sic] be requested to proceed
                    immediately to pencil36 the University and if the said Lindsay can bring
                    satisfactory proof to the Board that it is not customary for the Brick layer to pencil a building
                    under a contract similar to that he has entered into then the Board will allow him a reasonable
                    compensation therefor.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of Three be appointed to measure the Brick &
                    Stone work of the Seminary building. Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Touissaint Dubois, and Charles Smith were appointed.
            On Motion—Resolved that the account exhibited by William Lindsay for extra work be
                    referred to the Committee appointed to measure the Brick work of the Seminary.
            The President executed a Deed of conveyance in open Board to Mathias Mounce for the S. E. qr. of Sec.
                    11 Township 2 South and Range 11 West.37
            
            John D. Hay resigned as Clerk to this Board.
            On Motion ordered that the Board proceed to the Election of Clerk whereupon counting the Ballots John
                    Johnson was elected.
            Then the Board Adjourned without day.
            Novr. 2nd 1810
            This being the day appointed by the President agreable to an Advertisement. Members present: William
                    H. Harrison, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , James Johnson, Touissaint 
                  
                     36 "Penciling" is the bricklayer's method
                            of accentuating color contrast by painting the mortar joints of a brick wall. C. F. Tweney
                            and L. E. C. Hughes (eds.), Chambers's Technical Dictionary (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 623.
                  
                            
                        37 This description of the tract of land which was deeded to Mounce
                                was miscopied when the minutes were transcribed in 1811 from the original minutes book
                                to a "blank book well bound." The original book records deeds made to
                                    both Mounce and William Harrington as follows below. It is obvious
                                that when the minutes were recopied these two paragraphs were accidentally combined into
                                one.
                            "The president executed a deed of conveyance in open board to Mathias Mounce for
                                the S. W. qr. of section 27 in Township 2 South and Range 11 West.
                            The president executed a deed of conveyance in open board to William Harrington for the
                                S. E. qr. of Section 11. Township 2. South and Range 11 West."
                        
               
                     Dubois, François Vigo, John Gibson, Benjamin Parke,
                    John Badollet, Robert Buntin, John Johnson.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of two be appointed to employ hands to remove the
                    earth from the Seminary well. Peter Jones & Touissaint Dubois were appointed.
            On Motion—Resolved that the claim of William Lindsy for extra work be referred to the
                    Committee which had that subject before under their consideration and that they allow him what they
                    may think reasonable. The Committee to be increased to five John Baddollet [sic]
                    & Robert Buntin were added to the former Committee.
            On Motion—Resolved that the persons to whom Deeds are given by order of the Board either
                    furnish the blank Deeds themselves or pay the Clerk for the same at the rate of two Dollars and
                    fifty cents for each Deed.
            On Motion—Resolved that the excuse of Benjamin Parke & Peter Jones for not
                    attending at the annual meeting of the Board on April the 2nd 1810 be accepted.
            Then the Board Adjourned without day.
            January 17th 1811
            This being the day appointed by the President agreable to advertisement. Members Present: John
                    Gibson, John Badollet, Nathl. Ewing, Geo. Leech, Peter Jones, Luke Decker, James Johnson, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Benjn. Parke, and John Johnson.
            The President being absent John Gibson was appointed President pro Tem.
            On Motion Ordered that the Board adjourn untill Saturday the 19th instant at eleven of the Clock at
                    the Seminary.
            January. Saturday 19th 1811
            The Board met agreable to Adjournment Members present: William H. Harrison, John Gibson, Benjamin
                    Parke, John Badollet, Peter Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Henry Vanderburg, Elias McNamee, Charles Smith,
                    John Johnson, and James Johnson.
            
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee of five members be appointed to ascertain what sum
                    will be necessary for the establishment of a school pr. year which shall embrace the teaching of the
                    English, Latin, & French Grammars, seperately including the rudiments of the said languages,
                    Geography and the mathematics. And also the sum which it is probable can be raised from the scholars
                    which may be sent to said school, and also what would be the best plan for taking the present school
                    taught by Mr. Scott38 under the regulation of the Board of Trustees. And also to
                    draft a set of rules for the government of the school and that they report at the next meeting of
                    the Board. John Johnson, Benjamin Parke, Nathaniel Ewing, John Badollet, and John Gibson were
                    appointed.
            On Motion—Resolved the Committee appointed to contract for nails and other materials for
                    the use of the Seminary be and they are hereby authorized to purchase a blank book well bound for
                    the purpose of keeping the proceedings of the Board of Trustees in.39
            
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee be appointed to procure Tables, benches, a pair of
                    andirons, a pair of Tongs & Shovel, a broom, a Water Bucket, a tender for the fire, two tin
                    cups, and an axe for the accommodation of the school under the Charge of the Revd. Mr. Scott.
                    Charles Smith and Peter Jones were appointed.
            On Motion—Resolved that a Committee be appointed to take into consideration the subject of
                    leasing the Seminary 
                  
                     38 A native of 
                                Kentucky
                            , Samuel Thornton Scott had been to 
                                Vincennes
                             on several occasions, as a teacher and on missionary visits, prior to his
                            appointment as the first pastor of the Presbyterian church in the Indiana Territory in 1808.
                            Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), II, 862–863. His "Grammar and English
                            school" was described in a letter to the Western Sun, July 27,
                            1811, as having operated "under various discouragements…from its
                            commencement" but succeeding, nonetheless, in training
                            "pupils…so that their fathers and their mothers shall be glad, and those
                            that bore them shall rejoice." This letter, signed by "An
                            Observer," ascribed to Scott "the rare talent of exciting the emulation of
                            his scholars in an extraordinary degree." His resignation from the school position
                            was read at the Board meeting of August 3, 1815.
                  
                     39 The "blank book well bound" mentioned here, as
                            well as the original, smaller minutes books, are preserved at 
                                Vincennes
                             University. For a more detailed discussion of these documents, see Constantine,
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 318.
               
                     land Generally and also the petition of Landon Key. Benjamin
                    Parke, James Johnson, and Elias McNamee were appointed.
            On Motion—Resolved that the Reverend Samuel Scott be permitted to make use of the Seminary
                    for Religious purposes.
            The Board then Adjourned untill Saturday the 26th inst.
            [Saturday, January 26, 1811]
            The Board met agreable to adjournment. Members present: William H. Harrison, John Gibson, Peter
                    Jones, Benjn. Parke, Charles Smith, John Johnson, John Badollet, Nathl. Ewing, François
                    Vigo, Elias McNamee, and George Leech.
            The Committee appointed on the 19th Ulto. to take into consideration the subject of organizing a
                    School Report: That as to the first object of enquiry your Committee had no data from [which] they
                    could ascertain the expence of teaching the English, Latin, and French languages, Geography and the
                    mathematics, all their enquiries touching that subject began and ended in conjecture. It is very
                    certain however that but few scholars could be obtained for such a school probably not more than ten
                    or twelve for the present year and as your Committee believe it probable that a Gentleman qualified
                    to teach those branches of learning could not be obtained for less than five hundred Dollars per
                    year the product of that number of scholars from the ordinary rates of tuition would be insufficient
                    to support a teacher. Your Committee consider it unnecessary at present to establish a school for
                    teaching the French language as it is not known that there is any demand for a school for that
                        purpose.40
            
            As to the second enquiry submitted your Committee are of opinion that the sum that might be raised by
                    subscription for scholars to the proposed school would not exceed two hundred Dollars and probably
                    not one hundred and fifty Dollars for the present year. In devising a plan upon which Mr. Scotts
                    school could be taken under the direction of the 
                  
                     40 The "instruction of youth in the Latin, Greek, French and
                            English languages…" was one of the duties of the president and
                            professors of 
                                Vincennes
                             University prescribed by the Act of Incorporation. Philbrick, Laws
                                of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809, p. 180.
               
                     Board of Trustees your Committee had some difficulty. They
                    consider the provisions of our Charter as prohibiting the erection of a common English school41 under the sanction of the Board of Trustees and the want of funds and the
                    small number of scholars there will probably be for the contemplated school would seem to preclude
                    the Idea of its establishment. To reconcile however as far as is practicable the different opinions
                    that have been suggested on the subject and attain the end we all have in view your Committee would
                    propose that the Board of Trustees should immediately open a Grammar school for the English, Latin,
                    and Greek languages and also a school for Geography and the mathematics and place them under the
                    care of Mr. Scott and that he also be permitted to occupy a part of the University building for a
                    common English school. The former can only be accomplished by permitting the latter. And the
                    arrangement will secure a tolerable competency to Mr. Scott or any other Gentleman that may have the
                    superintendance of the school, your Committee having been informed that the product of Mr. Scotts
                    school has averaged about four hundred and fifty Dollars. As soon as the University building is so
                    far completed as to admit of it, the Grammar school and the common schools may and ought to be kept
                    in seperate apartments.
            Your Committee have prepared and subjoined a set of Rules for the regulation of the proposed school
                    and which they respectfully submit as the result of their report: 
                        Rules for the Government of the 
                                Vincennes
                             University Grammar school
                        Of the Teacher
                    
            
            It shall be the duty of the Teacher to instruct his pupils in the English, Latin, and Greek
                    languages, likewise to watch over their morals and see that in all things the laws of the
                    Institution are strictly observed, and when he may deem it 
                  
                     41 The "charter" listed the specific
                            "branches of learning" to be offered by the university. While "a
                            Grammar school connected with, and dependant upon the said university" was
                            authorized, no mention was made of "a Common English school." Philbrick,
                                Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801–1809, pp. 180, 182. The
                            traditional "Grammar school" offered a college-preparatory curriculum; the
                            "common English school" provided the essentials of an elementary
                            education. Constantine, Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 324, n.
                            24.
               
                     necessary to the well being of the Institution shall convene
                    the Board of Visitors.
            Visitors
            Four of the Trustees together with the Teacher shall constitute a board of Visitors who shall have
                    power to enquire into every thing relating to the management of the school, to examine the Students
                    when they think proper, to see that the rules are properly observed, and to inflict punishments not
                    extending to expulsion. No explusion shall take place without the concurrence of the Board of
                    Trustees nor shall any corporal punishment be inflicted. The Trustees shall in rotation perform the
                    duty of Visitors and an Alphabetical list shall be formed for that purpose. Of the board of Visitors
                    the Teacher shall be President and a Majority shall form a quorum.
            Monitor
            By the Teacher a Monitor shall be appointed, whose office shall continue one week. It shall be the
                    duty of the Monitor to keep a list of the names of all the Students drawn out in a fair hand and
                    when the Students first meet in the morning shall call the roll and mark the absentees, likewise
                    when the students meet in the afternoon shall again call the roll and again mark the absentees. He
                    shall notice all immoralities and gross improprieties in the conduct of his fellow students during
                    school hours and deliver a true statement of the same together with his list for the preceding week
                    to the Teacher, at the expiration of his Office. He shall see that the house is swept and that
                    economy is observed generally by his fellow students. The duties of his office nor any part thereof
                    shall be discharged by proxy, except in case of sickness or other absolute inability and each
                    Student shall in his turn be compelled to take upon himself this office.
            Students
            Every student shall pay one Quarter in advance. Friday shall be devoted to reviewing what may have
                    been learned the preceding part of the week. No student shall by any means gamble or play at cards,
                    billiards, dice or any other game of chance, nor upon any account frequent or even visit taverns or
                    tipling houses unless for the purpose of transacting necessary & indispensable business.
            
            Vacations, Examinations & Exhibitions
            In every year there shall be two vacations: one of one week to commence on the first Monday in April
                    and one of four weeks to commence on the first Monday after the 15th of August. Immediately previous
                    to the vacation in August there shall be a public examination and exhibition. At the exhibition
                    Single speeches and Dialogues only shall be spoken. There shall also be such occasional examinations
                    as the Visitors may think necessary.
            Rates of Tuition
            Each student shall pay for each or all the following branches of learning 18$ per year
                    viz: English Grammar, Latin, Greek, Geography, & the Mathematics and no Student shall be
                    received for a term less than one Session, that is from the April vacation to that occurring in
                    [August]. And and [sic] from the August and September vacation to that in April
                    and in rating the price of tuition each Session shall be considered as constituting an half year.
                    And as it is already provided that no Student shall be admitted but by paying one Quarters tuition
                    in advance, the same may be paid to the Treasurer of the Board of Trustees or the Teacher. In case
                    of payment to the Treasurer his receipt only shall be considered a sufficient voucher to gain
                    admission to the school.
            Alphabetical list of the Members of the Board of Visitors 
                  1st. Badollet John
                  2nd. Buntin Robert
                  3d. Decker Luke
                  4th. Dubois Touissaints
                  5th. Ewing Nathaniel
                  6th. Gibson John
                  7th. Harrison Wm. H.
                  8th. Johnson James
                  9th. Johnson John
                  10th. Jones Peter
                  11th. Kuykendall Jacob
                  12th. Leech George
                  13th. McNamee Elias
                  14th. Parke Benjamin
                  15th. Smith Charles
                  16th. Vanderburg Henry
                  17th. Vigo François
               
                
            Resolved that a Committee be appointed to agree with the Revd. Samuel Scott to keep the school
                    contemplated by the Trustees and John Gibson & John Badollet were appointed as said
                    Committee.
            
            The Committee to whom were referred the petition of Landen Key as also the Resolution of the Board of
                    Trustees directing an enquiry generally into the subject of leasing the Seminary
                    lands—Report:
            That in regard to the application of Landen Key it is not perceived that the additional improvement
                    which the petitioner proposes to make would authorize the Board to grant his petition. The horse
                        mills42 commonly erected are of too perishable a nature and temporary in
                    their benefits to add any to the value of the land at the expiration of the lease.
            As to leasing the Seminary lands generally your Committee believe the Term for which leases are now
                    granted is too short,43 but if the Term should be extended they also think a
                    small additional improvement in clearing land might be exacted. They would also recommend limiting
                    the time in which leases shall be granted, and from a view of the whole subject they would recommend
                    the Adoption of the following Resolutions: 
                  1st. Resolved that the prayer of Landen Key ought not to be granted.
                  2nd. Resolved that hereafter the Seminary lands be leased for the Term of seven years.
                  3d. Resolved that a Covenant be inserted in the lease that the lessee shall clear twenty
                            acres of land, Commit no waste, and leave the premises in good repair.
                  4th. Resolved that those who have heretofore taken leases shall upon surrendering [them]
                            be entitled to receive others agreably to the foregoing provisions.
                  5th. Resolved that no lease shall be granted after the first day of January in the year.
                            6th. Resolved that squatters shall apply and receive leases 
                        
                           42 "Horse mills were made in many ways….
                                    The main shaft which was an upright post had a small wooden pulley on it about six
                                    feet from the ground. The post that was turned by the horse had a large wooden
                                    pulley or hoop about six feet from the ground. A band or belt of a raw hide was put
                                    around both of the posts on the pulleys. The horse was hitched to an arm which was
                                    fastened into the post with the large pulley and as he went around, the main shaft
                                    ran very fast. The grinding was done on a floor just above the belt." Gayle
                                    Thorn-brough and Dorothy Riker (eds.), Readings in Indiana History
                                        (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVI; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1956), 392–393.
                        
                           43 On January 25, 1809, the Board had agreed that its leases
                                    would "continue five years and no longer." See above, p.
                                266.
                     
                             on or before the last day of March next otherwise the
                            lands upon which they may have settled shall be leased to the first applicant.
               
                
            The Board Adjourned without day.
            April 1st 1811
            The Board met it being the annual meeting agreable to law. Members Present: William H. Harrison, John
                    Gibson, John Johnson, Charles Smith, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , François Vigo, Nathaniel Ewing, Jacob Kuykendall, James Johnson, Elias
                    McNamee, Peter Jones, Benjamin Parke, Robert Buntin.
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn untill Saturday next at one O'clock P.M.
            Saturday April 6th 1811
            The Board met agreable to adjournment. Members Present: John Gibson, James Johnson, Elias McNamee,
                    Peter Jones, John Johnson, Nathaniel Ewing, Charles Smith, François Vigo, Robert Buntin.
            On Motion—Ordered that John Gibson be appointed President Pro Tem.
            On Motion—Ordered that this Board do adjourn, till Saturday next at 10 O'Clock
                    A.M.
            Saturday April 13th 1811
            The Board met agreable to adjournment. Members present: William H. Harrison, John Gibson, Benjamin
                    Parke, Charles Smith, Nathaniel Ewing, Touissant Dubois, Robert Buntin, John Johnson, James Johnson,
                    Peter Jones.
            On Motion—Ordered that the price of tuition be paid Quarterly in advance.
            The Revd. Samuel Scott appeared in open Board and agreed to teach the School contemplated by the
                    Board of Trustees.
            
            On Motion—Ordered that the Clerk be directed and he is authorized to transcribe the
                    Journal of this Board into a Book for that purpose and also to make out in a Book a Statement of
                    accounts & monied transactions with the Board.44
            
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn without day.
            The Board met agreable to an Advertisement on July 27th 1811. Members Present: Nathaniel Ewing, John
                    Badollet, James Johnson, John Johnson.
            The Board Adjourned untill Friday the 2nd day of August.
            Friday August 2nd 1811
            The Board met agreable to Adjournment. Members Present: François Vigo, Robert Buntin,
                    Nathaniel Ewing, & John Johnson.
            The Board Adjourned untill Friday the 9th day of August.
            The Board met agreable to Adjournment on Friday the 9th day of August 1811. Members Present: Charles
                    Smith, Jacob Kuykendall, Nathaniel Ewing, James Johnson, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Elias McNamee, Peter Jones, Touissaint Dubois, François Vigo, Robert
                    Buntin, John Gibson, Benjamin Parke, John Johnson.
            On Motion—Ordered that Henry Vanderburg take the chair pro tem.
            William H. Harrison resigned his seat as a member of this Board of Trustees.45
            
            
               
                  44 As explained in note 39, the "Journal" transcribed at
                        this time is preserved at 
                            Vincennes
                         University and was used in preparing the minutes for publication. Unfortunately, it
                        has not been possible to locate the "Book…of accounts & monied
                        transactions."
               
                  45 Harrison's absences from the Board's meetings during
                        the summer of 1811 and his resignation at this time were perhaps a consequence of his
                        preoccupation with "the Shawanese prophet, his brother Tecumseh and their confederacy
                        of Indians" who were causing "great alarm and irritation among the
                        people…." Logan Esarey (ed.), Governors Messages and
                        Letters (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. VII, IX, XII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922–1924), I, 538, 541.
            
            
            John Badollet resigned his seat as a member of this Board of Trustees.
            On Motion—Ordered that Mr. Scott who has charge of the Grammar School have leave of
                    absence from Saturday next untill the 20th September next and that the examination and exhibition
                    required by the rules regulating the school commence on the third Monday in October next.
            Resolved that Nathaniel Ewing, Benjamin Parke, & Touissant Dubois be added to the Committee
                    for superintending the building of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Seminary and that they examine the State of the Building; the manner in which the work
                    is doing and that this Committee be directed to call on Govr. Harrison & Mr. Badollet former
                    members of the Committee of Superintendance to ascertain from them what instructions they have given
                    respecting the mode of doing the work of said Seminary—And that they Report at the next
                    meeting.
            Resolved that the Committee who contracted with William Lindsay draw on the Treasurer in favour of
                    said Lindsay for the sum of forty Dollars on account.
            Resolved that the Board now go into the election of a President whereupon counting the ballots
                    Benjamin Parke was elected.
            On Motion—Resolved that the account presented by Wm. Lindsay be refer [red] to the
                    Committee of superintendance & that they be authorized to settle said account and draw on
                    the Treasurer.
            Resolved that Joseph Dunlap46 have liberty of teaching a school in the University
                    during the approaching vacation.
            Resolved that a Committee of three be appointed to examine the Journals as Copied by the Clerk
                    & see if the same is correct47 & that they direct how the
                    existing accounts of the 
                  
                     46 In 1810, Dunlap signed a petition to "the legislative
                            Council and House of Representatives of Indiana Territory" which denied
                            "accusations…that the Citizens of this territory" had aided
                            "Aaron Burr in his late wicked attempt to divide or overthrow the Government of the 
                                United States
                            ." The petition went on to demand a "minute
                            investigation" of the members of the legislature "to exonerate the
                            innocent and criminate alone those who are guilty." Carter, Territorial Papers, Vol. VIII, The Territory of Indiana,
                                1810–1816 (
                                Washington
                            , 1939), 63–64.
                  
                     47 The transcription of "the Journals as copied by the
                            Clerk," John Johnson, was a painstaking one, in which some abbreviations of names
                            and punctuation changes were the chief discrepancies. One error in connection with the sale
                            of land to Mathias Mounce was indicated above, note 37.
               
                     Seminary shall be stated & the future accounts kept
                    & that they purchase the necessary Books for that purpose and draw on the Treasurer of the
                    same. Nathaniel Ewing, H. Vander-burg, & Charles Smith [were appointed to the] Committee.
                    The Committee appointed to ascertain the quantity of Brick & Stone laid in the University
                    Building Report as follows that there is 293150 Brick laid and 702/3 perches of Stone Work.
            Henry Vanderburg Dubois Chas. Smith
            On Motion—Ordered that the Board adjourn untill next Friday 16th Inst.
            Friday August 16th 1811
            The Board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Parke President, John Gibson,
                    Tousaint Dubois, Elias McNeme [sic], John Johnson, Robert Buntin, James Johnson,
                    François Vigo, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Nathaniel Ewing.
            Resolved that the committee appointed to superintend the seminary building be directed to make an
                    estimate of the probable expense of the carpenters work in the best way they can and also what
                    materials may be wanted & report to the next meeting.
            Resolved that it shall be the duty of the committee appointed to superintend the University building
                    to give instructions in writing and preserve copies of the same and report them from time to time to
                    this Board.
            Resolved that the clerk be allowed two dollars pr. day and that the president draw on the Treasurer
                    for the same.
            Resolved that the clerk be allowed sixteen cents pr. sheet of every hundred words for copying the
                    journals & that a committee of three be appointed to assertain the amount48 and draw on the Treasurer for the same. Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Nathaniel Ewing, & Robert Buntin [were appointed to the] Committee.
            
               
                  48 The minutes of the Board from December, 1806, to August, 1811, filled
                        70 pages (300–350 words per page) in the new Journal.
            
            
            Resolved that a Committee of two be appointed to draft a memorial to Congress on the subject of the
                    seminary lands sold by this board of Trusties [sic] under the law of the Territory
                    incorporating the same and that they report at the next meeting. John Johnson & Elias McNeme
                    [were appointed to the] Committee.
            Resolved that the Treasurer notify the delinquent purchasers of the Seminary land to make immediate
                    payment.
            Resolved that the board adjourn untill friday the 30th day of august.
            Friday Agust [sic] 30th 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park [sic],
                    Robert Buntin, Peter Jones, Charles Smith, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme, John Gibson, John Johnson.
            The committee of superintendance in obediance to the direction of the board to make an estimate of
                    the probable expense of the carpenters work on the University building, and also what materials may
                    be wanting to complete the same—Report:
            That Mr. Bond informed your committee that from a rough calculation he supposed that his bill would
                    amount to three thousand six hundred dollars. That the work being yet unfinished it was impossible
                    to state the exact amount and that it was likely that it would be more than the sum stated.
            Your committee had no means of asertaining the probable amount but by applying to Mr. Bond.
            A[s] to the materials that may be necessary to complete the carpenters work of the house Mr. Bond
                    informed your committee that he believed there was a sufficiency on hand and contracted for, except
                    the scantling that may be necessary for the partition walls in the second story.
            That as to the second story of the house your committee would recommend that it should be divided
                    into nine apartments, some at each end of the house and one at the end of the principle passage, and
                    that the apartments should be so arrainged [sic] by means of small passages that a
                    free communication with each from the principle passage might be had. This would give four rooms with and five without fire places. Those with with [sic] fire
                    places might be about 17 feet by  13 feet. That at the end of
                    the large passage 12 feet by 17 feet. The others 10 feet by 17 feet and a passage in the centre of
                    the building, lengthwise 6 feet. As the manner in which the basement and first stories are proposed
                    to be finished, will furnish a sufficiency of large apartments, it is believed that this arrangement
                    will be more commodious and better adapted to the purposes for which the building is intended than
                    any other that could be adopted. Two large apartments only are necessary, an eating room, and one
                    for lectures—exhibitions etc. They are provided. And in addition to these three will be
                    in the first Story, two rooms each 20 by 23 feet, of the second Story therefore, such a disposition
                    ought to be made as would furnish accommodation for the greatest number of students, and in the most
                    convenient manner—the rooms 17 by 13 feet, with fire places, will be as commodious as
                    though the division proposed were made, and by this, four appartments will be added that will be
                    convenient in every respect in summer and large enough for lodging in winter. So far as regards the
                    additional materials and the Carpenters work that this arrangement will require, they are not
                    considered by your committee as any obstacle to its adoption.49
            
            Resolved that the report of the committee of Super-intendance in respect to the mode in which the
                    second Story of the University building ought to be finished & this day made to the Board be
                    and the same is hereby adopted.
            The Committee who were appointed to draft a memorial to congress on the subject of the seminary lands
                    asked & obtained leave untill the next meeting to report.
            Resolved that Joshua Bond be allowed fifteen hundred dollars on account of his contract for doing the
                    carpenters work of the seminary building and that the president draw on the Treasurer for the same
                    in such sums as Mr. Bond may require.
            Resolved that the Board adjourn untill thursday the 12th of Septr. next.
            
               
                  49 In The Western Gazetteer, or Emigrants Directory…(
                            Auburn
                        , N. Y., 1817), 66, the author, Samuel R. Brown, declared that "the best
                        buildings [in 
                            Vincennes
                        ] are a brick tavern, jail, and academy. The latter, which is an honor to the state,
                        stands in the public square, and is under the direction of the Rev. Mr. Scott, a presbyterian
                        minister, a gentleman of letters…." A reproduction of an early painting of
                        the "academy" is in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LIV (December, 1958), facing page 326.
            
            
            Thursday 12th of September 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, John Gibson, & John
                    Johnsone [sic]. The board adjourned till Friday the 20th inst.
            Monday October 7th 1811
            This being the day appointed by law as a stated meeting. The following members appeared: Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , John Gibson, François Vigo, Nathaniel Ewing.
            There not being a sufficient number present to form a board. The members present then adjourned
                    untill monday the 14th inst.
            Monday 14th of October 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: François Vigo, Elias McNeme,
                    & Nathaniel Ewing.
            There not being a sufficient number present. The board then adjourned untill Wednesday the 23d inst.
                    at two O'Clock.
            Wednesday October 23d. 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: John Gibson, François Vigo,
                    & Nathl. Ewing.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to Form a quorum. The board then adjourned
                    untill November the 9th 1811.
            November the 9th 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: John Gibson, François Vigo,
                    Nathl. Ewing, Henry Vanderburg, Charles Smith, Elias McNeme, James Johnson, John Johnson.
            
            On Motion ordered that Henry Vanderburg be appointed president pro tem.
            Whereas Joshua Bond did on the 30 day of August last receive an order on the Treasurer of the Board
                    of Trusties for fifteen hundred dollars as part of his compensation for the carpenters work of the
                    seminary building, on his promise that the work should be compleated in two months or some short
                    time from that time. And whereas the said Bond has not complyed with his promise then made nor is
                    there any appearance of his intending to comply with it—Therefore Resolved that the
                    Treasurer be hereby ordered not to pay any further sum on the said order untill the said building is
                    compleated or untill the board shall think proper to recind this order and that John Gibson be
                    appointed a committee to inform the Treasurer & Joshua Bond of this resolution.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Wednesday 20th i[n]stant.
            Wednesday the 20th of November 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Nathl. Ewing, John Gibson, Elias McNeme,
                    James Johnson, John Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of members to form a quorum—On Motion ordered that the
                    board adjourn untill Saturday next the 23d instant.
            Saturday November 23d 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , John Gibson, Elias McNeme, Benjamin Park, James Johnson, Robert Buntin, Peter Jones,
                    John Johnson.
            On Motion ordered that the board do adjourn untill Saturday next at two O'Clock in the
                    afternoon November the 29th 1811.
            
            Saturday November 29th 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , John Gibson, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme, Touisant Dubois, François Vigo,
                    Robert Buntin, & John Johnson.
            On Motion—Ordered that the committee of super-intendance be authorized to contract for the
                    cleaning out of the sellar of the Seminary building, to have the harths laid, and such other things
                    done as appears to be wanting to be done to make the building fit for use immediately and to draw on
                    the Treasurer for the expences.
            On Motion—Ordered that the board adjourn till Wednesday next at two O'clock.
            Wednesday December 4th 1811
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, John Gibson, Touisant Dubois,
                    Nathaniel Ewing, Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    .
            There not being a sufficient number of members of members [sic] present to form a
                    quorum Therefore.
            On Motion—Ordered that the board adjourn till Saturday next at two O'Clock it
                    being the 7th of December 1811.
            Saturday December 7th 1811
            The board met agreable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, John Gibson, Peter Jones,
                    Henry 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , Robert Buntin, James Johnson, Touisant Dubois, Nathaniel Ewing, & John
                    Johnson.
            Luke Decker appeared and gave in his excuse to the board for not attending at the semiannual meetings
                    of this board in November 1810, aprile 1811, and November 1811 which excuse was accepted by the
                    board.
            The presedent [sic] laid before the board the petition of Edmond Wills which [was]
                    read.
            
            On Motion ordered that the said petition be refered to a committee and that they report at the next
                    meeting. Messr. Peter Jones and Johnson were appointed.
            The committee to whom was refered the settlement of Thomas Emisons account against the 
                        Vincennes
                     University beg leave That from a strict examination of his account for materials
                    furnished for the use of said University They find that the said institution is indebted to Thomas
                    Emmison as per Vouchers accompanying this Report $674.643/4.
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     University Dr. To Thomas Emmison
            
               
                  1808
                  May 28th To amount of plank furnished
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  as pr. No.
                  1
                  $529.033/4
               
               
                  1811
                  June 13th
                  Do
                  Do as pr.
                  2
                  91.25
               
               
                  1808
                  July 20th
                  Do
                  Do
                  6
                  3.75
               
               
                  
                  June 29
                  Do
                  Do
                  4
                  50.61
               
               
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                  $674.643/4
               
            
            Committee Henry Vanderburgh John Gibson & Peter Jones
            On Motion—Resolved that the president be authorized to draw on the Treasurer in favour of
                    Thomas Emmison for the following sums to wit: for five hundred and twenty nine dollars three and
                    three fourth cents due May the 28th 1808—For ninety one dollars & twenty five
                    cents due June 13th 1811—For three dollars and seventy five cents due July 20th
                    1808—Fo[r] fifty dollars sixty one cents due June 29th 180 [8]—stating the
                    above several dates & sums in his said draft or drafts.
            On Motion ordered that the resolution adopted by this board directing the Treasurer not to pay to
                    Joshua Bond any money untill he progresses with the work of the semenary building be and the same is
                    hereby recinded.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn till Wednesday next at 2 O'Clock—11th
                    Der. 1811.
            
            Wednesday December 11th 1811
            The Board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: B. Park, H. Vanderburgh, J. Gibson, R.
                    Buntin, Chars. Smith, P. Jones, Jas. Johnson, Nathl. Ewing, E. McNeme.
            The Committee appointed to inform the Legislature of the wish of the Board that the seat of justice
                    of 
                        Washington County
                     should be on the seminary Township.
            Reported that they had complyed with their instructions and that the Legislature had proceeded to fix
                    the seat of justice in the seminary Township.60
            
            On Motion ordered that Board adjourn untill Wednesday Next at two O'Clock.
            
               
                  50 This entry is puzzling. The "Act for the formation of a new
                        county out of the counties of Harrison and Clark…called and known by the name of 
                            Washington
                        " was not approved until December 21, 1813, and the "seat of
                        Justice," 
                            Salem
                        , was not selected until February, 1814. The "seminary Township"
                        granted to the university by Congress was located in the area which was organized as 
                            Gibson County
                         in 1813. The only "seats of Justice" fixed by the legislature in
                        1811 were those of 
                            Clark County
                         (
                            Charlestown
                        ), 
                            Franklin County
                         (
                            Brookville
                        ), and 
                            Wayne County
                         (
                            Salisbury
                        ). Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                        1809–1816, pp. 217–220; Ernest V. Shockley, "County Seats
                        and County Seat Wars in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, X
                        (March, 1914), 3–6; Biographical and Historical Souvenir for the
                            Counties of Clark,…Harrison,…and 
                                Washington
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1889), 254.
            
         
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Messages and Papers relating to the Administration of Noah Noble, Governor of
                        Indiana, 1831–1837. Edited by Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough. Indiana Historical Collections, Volume XXXVIII. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1958. Pp. viii, 645. Illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $6.00.)
            In his valedictory to the Indiana General Assembly in December, 1837, Governor Noah Noble declared
                    that "the six years of my public service…have been marked with events that will
                    not readily be overlooked in the history of the State" (p. 603). Students of
                    Indiana's past generally concur with Noble's judgment that the half-dozen years of
                    his administration are among the most significant in the state's history. These were
                    formative, adolescent years, marked by extreme public confidence in the state's economic
                    potential—years of grandiose projects and gross misunderstanding of basic fiscal
                    principles. These were the years when the map of Indiana was just beginning to appear as more than a
                    chart of natural features—years of surveys, projected road, railroad, and canal
                    routes—years when towns like 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Brook-ville, and 
                        Madison
                     vied to orient the growing state in their direction. These were bustling times in
                    Indiana's history, and the pulse is captured on page after page of this volume of source
                    materials.
            Noah Noble has been adjudged a governor who was swept along by public opinion and the momentum of
                    circumstances, but to say that he was not in the forefront of events during his period of office
                    would be deceptive. A perusal of some of the key state papers accessible in this volume reveals that
                    a strong, diligent man filled the chief executive's chair. A product of the frontier, Noble
                    had his shortcomings and was unschooled in some of the niceties later expected of chief executives.
                    Yet, he had an obvious talent for judging men and evaluating the complex circumstances which
                    surrounded him.
            The regional problems of Indiana in the 1830's were compounded by broader national
                    ones—the public land question, the perennial states' rights controversy, Indian
                    removal plans, the banking issue, the internal improvements dilemma, and the unstable alignment of
                    the two major political factions. All of these factors were woven into the decisions and policies of
                    Noble and his official colleagues, and documents pertinent to this fact can be found in abundance in
                    this volume. Should this collection of papers be used for no other purpose, it could be studied for
                    examples of how one not untypical western state adjusted to trends which were guided by men acting
                    on a distant national stage.
            Without doubt one of the most valuable features of this assortment of papers is the light that they
                    shed on the intricate internal improvements program. The "great" Internal
                    Improvements Act of 1836 is the major legislative landmark of Noble's period in office,
                    and, quite naturally, it figures conspicuously in this assortment of documents. But the editors have
                    done a superb job of gathering fragmentary information on the internal improvements theme from many
                    less accessible  sources and bringing it together in compact and
                    usable form. The index and comprehensive footnotes supply an infinite number of leads to the seeker
                    of information about early roads, railroads, and canals. The annual addresses of Governor Noble to
                    the general assembly are probably the most concise and informative progress reports on the early
                    internal improvements venture that can be found.
            Though most of the materials contained in this volume are available to the patient researcher in the
                    various collections in the Indiana State Library, even the most dedicated student welcomes any guide
                    that will point to short cuts. There is no better way to stimulate sound study of the basic facts of
                    Indiana's complex past than the compiling of such detailed and varied source materials as
                    this volume presents. The Indiana Historical Bureau and Editors Riker and Thornbrough have produced
                    another work that will long place regional scholars in their debt.
            
               Indiana University Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               Cattle Kingdom in the Ohio Valley, 1783–1860. By Paul C. Henlein. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of Kentucky Press, 1959. Pp. vii, 198. Map, bibliographical note, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Professor Henlein has written of the cattle kingdom which centered in the Kentucky Bluegrass, the
                    Scioto and Miami valleys of 
                        Ohio
                    , part of the upper Wabash Valley in Indiana, and the Sangamon Valley in Illinois prior
                    to about 1860. He has also included a discussion of the cattle ranges tributary to the feeding areas
                    just noted, though he makes clear that range and feeding areas were not always separate. Cattle were
                    brought west by the early settlers of the Ohio Valley, and soon surplus cattle were being driven
                    over the mountains to eastern markets. By 1850 shipment of cattle via the railroads was rapidly
                    supplanting cattle drives from the Ohio Valley to the East.
            The cattle country described by Henlein was within the region in which corn-hog farming was a basic
                    enterprise, but possibly the raising of beef cattle was more important within this region than has
                    usually been realized. At least, Professor Henlein offers abundant evidence of the considerable
                    importance of the cattle business in the Ohio Valley. Although the export of beef was principally to
                    the East, cattle were also driven or shipped to southeastern and southern markets, particularly from
                    the Kentucky Bluegrass. Cattle were also driven to such points as 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , while part of them were slaughtered in local feeding areas or in nearby cities.
            Early western cattle were of sundry varieties and few of them were of pure stock. These scrub cattle
                    had some advantages over improved breeds, a fact recognized by Henlein, but the persistence of scrub
                    cattle throughout the period is perhaps more significant than the author indicates. Although
                    westerners made efforts to upbreed local stock, much emphasis was placed upon importation of
                    improved stock from the East and especially from 
                        England
                    . Importation appears to have been mainly the work of a small minority of farmers, many
                    of  whom were "gentlemen" rather than
                    "dirt" farmers, but this question is inadequately pursued by Henlein. At any rate,
                    farmers and cattlemen constantly debated the pros and cons of scrub versus improved breeds as well
                    as the respective pros and cons of Shorthorns, Herefords, Devons, Ayrshires, and other new breeds,
                    though Shorthorns were especially popular. Moreover, the genealogy of particular bulls and dams was
                    often questioned and defended with vigor. Doubtless certain of the early cattlemen could recite far
                    more of the genealogy of their favorite bulls and dams than of their own family tree!
            Professor Henlein discusses breeding practices, cattle ranges, the feeding and care of beef cattle,
                    routes used in drives over the mountains to the East, marketing problems in the East, problems
                    involved in the long drives eastward, etc. As the railroads advanced in the 1850's the
                    slaughtering of cattle rapidly developed in the Ohio Valley and also in such other western cities as 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    .
            The narrative is very readable, and it is viewed in the light of overall as well as immediate
                    perspectives. When Professor Henlein talks about the sources of early settlers and the time when
                    various areas were settled, however, his narrative is both inadequate and inaccurate, at least so
                    far as Indiana is concerned. Similar studies of other aspects of agriculture in the Ohio Valley and
                    the Old Northwest are much needed, though perhaps their value could be enhanced by increased use of
                    federal census returns and other governmental records, both federal and state. The University of
                    Kentucky Press deserves commendation for publishing this useful and needed study of the Cattle Kingdom in the Ohio Valley, 1783–1860.
            
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The Heritage of the Middle West. Edited by John J. Murray. (
                        Norman
                    : University of Oklahoma Press, 1958. Pp. xiv, 303. Illustrations, index.
                    $4.00.)
            The Introduction to this book warns that although the dictionary definition of "Middle
                    West" is specific, such a delineation is "inadequate" for scholars who
                    study the region or the people who live there. The volume's twelve contributors seem to
                    agree that the region cannot be strictly defined, because they are certainly not all concerned with
                    precisely the same area. This attitude is unfortunate. To be sure, cultural uniqueness, religious
                    influence, thought, and many other factors which constitute a heritage do not know geographical or
                    political boundaries, but a working definition of the area would have assured that the essayists
                    would have all been talking about approximately the same "middle
                    west."
            Perhaps of lesser consequence is the time factor; but since no temporal bounds are placed on the
                    contributors either, some talk in terms of an early period and some of a later time, while others
                    are concerned with the span of mid-western history. With the spatial and temporal variations, the
                    articles of this book make up a montage rather than a composite.
            There is still another manner in which the chapters are in considerable contrast to each other. Some
                    make claims of ultimate magnitude  for the Middle West, even
                    going so far as to maintain that the area is "‘the crossroad of Western
                    civilization’" (p. 151); others point out the significant and sometimes unique
                    contributions of the region in certain fields; and others conclude that the Middle West is typical
                    of the American scene or, broader still, "of mankind" (p. 197).
            The scope of the volume is intended to include only selected phases of the subject suggested by its
                    title; yet in a region that has been subjected to so much investigation and interpretation within
                    the framework of the frontier hypothesis of Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, it seems either a deliberate omission or a serious oversight that his ideas are
                    almost totally excluded and ignored.
            The studies are, however, all of a provocative nature and help to furnish further insight into the
                    make-up, development, and contribution of the Middle West. Especially good are those on: literature,
                    by John T. Flanagan; religion, by S#2 E. Mead; philosophy, by Joseph L. Blau; and Utopian
                    experiments, by Arthur J. Bestor. Other essays discuss the European background, by the editor;
                    travelers' descriptions and observations, by Ray Allen Billington; economic development, by
                    Paul Sharp; political heritage, by John D. Hicks; immigration, by Vaclav L. Benes; education, by
                    Albert Schmidt; art, by Eugene Kingman; and "For Historians, a Lesson," by Walter
                    Johnson.
            Apparently, though not clearly stated, these essays were presented at the "Coe College
                    Conference on the Heritage of the Middle West." If so, the discussions they undoubtedly
                    provoked would have added much of value that might have been included in footnotes. Perhaps the
                    articles were revised before publication keeping these things in mind.
            Broad surveys of the type that make up this book are sometimes prone to errors in details, but these
                    studies are relatively free of such. Occasionally error of fact does creep in, but it is not of
                    sufficient consequence to alter the general conclusions which the authors are drawing. For example,
                    Henry Rowe Schoolcraft did not study the Ojibwa in the Wabash Valley (p. 199); and Pontiac did not
                    assault Mackinac (p. 201). Typographical mistakes are few and not serious, except for some such as
                    "Indian" instead of "Indiana" (p. 278).
            The illustrations are interesting and the format is attractive. The volume as a whole is an
                    introduction to various aspects of The Heritage of the Middle West. For that
                    reason, it will have continuous reference and survey value for many readers.
            
               Miami University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               The Indiana Industrial Directory. Ninth edition, 1958–1959. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 1958. Pp. 277. Appendices, index. Paperbound,
                    $12.00.)
            
               Issues, Elections, Politics…and You. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 1958. No pagination. Charts, tables. Paper-bound,
                    $3.00.)
            Various publications of the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce are not only valuable reference works
                    for the general public but also constitute useful historical records. The Indiana
                        Industrial Directory
                     for 1958–1959 and Issues, Elections,
                        Politics…and You, prepared for the 1958 election, are examples of Chamber of
                    Commerce publications which have both these suggested uses, although they were doubtless prepared
                    largely, if not exclusively, as current reference works.
            The Indiana Industrial Directory is divided into two principal parts. Part 1,
                    entitled "Civil Encyclopedia Section," has an alphabetical listing of
                    manufacturers, processors, and wholesalers for more than 650 Indiana villages, towns, and cities.
                    Data given for these places includes their location, utilities, newspapers, banks, luncheon clubs,
                    transportation facilities, population, hotels, etc., though information is usually less complete for
                    the smaller than for the larger communities. The principal listing for each place named, however, is
                    that of its industries and wholesalers, with bits of information about products represented.
            Part 2 of the Indiana Industrial Directory, entitled "Industrial
                    Classification Section," lists products of manufacturers, processors, and wholesalers on a
                    state-wide basis for numerous categories. Thus, while Part 1 gives a cross section view of
                    particular villages, towns, and cities regarding industrial and community information, Part 2 gives
                    a cross section picture of particular industries and other enterprises for the state as a whole.
                    Such information is extremely useful in studying economic growth and trends, supplementing
                    information obtained from the 
                        United States
                     census and other sources.
            
               Issues, Elections, Politics…and You is "A Handbook of Facts on
                    Indiana politics, Elections and Legislative Problems…for Citizenship Participation in
                    Government." Its initial section considers the importance of the citizen's
                    participation in government and includes the 1958 state platforms of the Democrats and Republicans.
                    Section 2 analyzes election results, mainly for recent campaigns. Additional sections discuss state
                    taxation, labor and unemployment compensation, education, transportation, and legislative lobbies.
                    The final section offers much information about the 1958 election (held after this volume was
                    prepared).
            The above publications are a mine of information, most of which is undigested, however. Moreover, the
                    1958 election handbook includes much expression of opinion, but fortunately the opinion is usually
                    easily distinguishable from the factual data. At times, several viewpoints are presented; at other
                    times, such as in the discussion of "right to work" legislation, a very definite
                    single point of view prevails.
            Occasional errors were noted in the historical comments included in these two publications, and very
                    likely, errors of fact have here and there crept into such massive accumulations of data. The
                    accuracy of the industrial and related data apparently depends largely upon results from
                    questionnaires, which are a device with obvious limitations. Nevertheless, persons seeking
                    information about industrial and governmental conditions within Indiana can find much of substantial
                    value in these publications of the State Chamber of Commerce. In fact, such publications merit
                    increased use, especially by persons holding responsible positions in politics, business, labor,
                    education, and community life.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         and 
                            Italy
                        . By Antonio Pace. Memoirs of the American Philosophical
                    Society, Volume XLVII. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : The American Philosophical Society, 1958. Pp. xi, 450. Illustrations, notes, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            A striking characteristic of the seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Enlightenment was the
                    international exchange of knowledge and ideas. This exchange was made possible on a formal basis by
                    the founding of learned academies and societies, which invited multinational membership and served
                    as clearing houses of ideas, while informal interchange took place through personal contacts and
                    correspondence among scholars, scientists, philosophes, and philosophers. There were few more active
                    and articulate members of this intellectual fraternity than Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , whose versatility of interest and achievement becomes increasingly impressive in our
                    "Age of Specialization."
            In Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         and 
                            Italy
                        , Antonio Pace, Professor of Romance Languages at 
                        Syracuse
                     University, focuses his attention upon one strand of the Enlightenment's
                    complex web of international intellectual relationships, and the result is a happy combination of
                    genuine scholarship and lucid, absorbing narrative style. The book documents the fact that the
                    "many-faceted 
                        Franklin
                    " has been a tremendous influence on Italian thought, and that this influence
                    has varied according to time, place, and/or social class. To eighteenth-century Italians, a powerful
                    image of 
                        Franklin
                     was that of electrologist, whose "single fluid theory" and lightning
                    rod brought him popular acclaim as "another 
                        Newton
                    ." Yet this 
                        Franklin
                     created a bitter controversy among Italian scientists, who line up as
                    "Franklinists" and "anti-Franklinists," the latter of whom held
                    to the double fluid theory of electricity and denied the validity of the lightning rod. An even
                    greater audience of eighteenth-century Italians was fascinated by 
                        Franklin
                    , the inventor, whose "ingenious stove," three-wheel clock, armonica,
                    and other devices were widely publicized in the contemporary periodical and pamphlet press, and were
                    regarded as incontrovertible evidence not only of his genius but of his basic humanitarianism.
                    Finally, during the years following the American Revolution, 
                        Franklin
                     as a political leader and statesman became the dominant image among Italians, who
                    looked upon him as the living symbol of numerous political and social concepts which were revered by
                    men of the Enlightenment but were a century or more in the future for most of 
                        Italy
                    .
            
               
                        Franklin
                    's impact on 
                        Italy
                     and Italians by no means came to an end with his death in 1790. On the contrary, his
                    life and his ideas were of more immediate significance in the Risorgimento than
                    they had been during the preceding century. Just as eighteenth-century Italians had created a
                    montage of 
                        Franklin
                    , composed of scientist, inventor, and statesman, so Italians of the Risorgimento discovered their own 
                        Franklin
                    —one who fitted their peculiar political, economic, and cultural needs. For
                    example, in the decade 1860–1870 many Italians saw a ready analogy between 
                        Franklin
                    's diplomatic career and that of Camillo di Cavour. Both men faced the problems
                    of political disunity; both led a struggle against a "foreign oppressor"; and both
                    employed consummate diplomacy  as a means to the same end,
                    political independence. To the growing Italian middle classes of the Risorgimento,
                    the "rags to riches" theme of 
                        Franklin
                    's career was a schematic diagram of their own ambitions; to them, 
                        Franklin
                    's greatness of mind was best seen in the pages of Il Povero
                        Riccardo and The Way to Wealth. Similarly, other groups of Italians found
                    in 
                        Franklin
                    's life and works grounds for identity with him; these groups included printers
                    and editors, educators, writers, and others. Following unification, the rise of industrialism
                    produced a working class for whom still another image of 
                        Franklin
                     was created by books with a proletarian message—books such as Worker and Philosopher (Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                        ), The Worker's Morality as Derived from the Life and Thought of Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                        , and…Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , the Great American Worker.
            In his delineation of the many 
                        Franklin
                     images which influenced Italians of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Professor
                    Pace has had access to a staggering volume of both American and Italian Frankliniana, the nature of
                    which is indicated in his notes, an extensive appendix of documents, and the bibliography. The
                    personality and ideas of 
                        Franklin
                    , conditions existing in 
                        Italy
                     at the time discussed, and the author's obvious mastery of his craft combine
                    to make Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         and 
                            Italy
                        
                one of those rare books which is likely to command the attention and respect
                    of both specialists and general readers.
            
               Indiana State Teachers College Robert Constantine
         
         
            
               Martin Van Buren and the Making of the Democratic Party. By Robert V. Remini. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. viii, 271. Notes, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            Thanks at least in part to the libels of Davy Crockett, Americans remember Martin Van Buren as an
                    effeminate trickster whose nicknames proclaim a "Red Fox," "Little
                    Magician," and "Wizard of the 
                        Albany
                     Regency." "He struts and swaggers like a crow in a gutter,"
                    said Davy in a caricature drawn with the help of a more literate accomplice. "It would be
                    difficult to say from his personal appearance whether he was man or woman, but for his large red and gray whiskers."
            Convinced that Van Buren deserves "a better reputation than he has enjoyed from Americans
                    generally and historians particularly," Professor Robert V. Remini, of Fordham University,
                    attempts to disabuse readers of this popularly held stereotype. In a volume devoted to Van
                    Buren's "significant role—perhaps the most significant
                    role—in the making of the Democratic party," 1821–1828 (p. 1), Dr.
                    Remini describes the fabrication of the "alliance between the planters of the South and the
                    plain Republicans of the North." The excellent accounts of Van Buren's visit with
                    Jefferson at 
                        Monticello
                     in 1824 and of his trip through the South "to unite the 
                        Jackson
                    , Calhoun, and Crawford factions" in 1827 demonstrate the Magician's
                    masterly qualities as political manager, as well as provide enemies with a basis for characterizing
                    him as "a Northern man with Southern principles."
            Although the author effectively outlines the complicated political maneuvering of the twenties, some
                    of his interpretations warrant further  scrutiny: Is it true
                    that "Jacksonian Democracy…did not begin over clashing economic and social
                    interests"? Was none of the effort "to redirect party policies and restate a
                    fundamental political philosophy" "inspired by economic or social changes taking
                    place in the nation" (p. viii)? Were Van Buren's contemporaries in fact wrong in
                    regarding him as "something less than a political statesman" (p. 1)?
            Seemingly eager to take the Autobiography at face value, Dr. Remini sometimes
                    interprets Van Buren's behavior with more sympathy than critical realism can justify. The
                    same evidence in the hands of a more skeptical critic might prompt a highly disparaging evaluation
                    of the eighth President's character. John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, admittedly a hard 
                        Puritan
                     to please, complained of Van Buren's "obsequiousness, his sycophancy,
                    his profound dissimulation and duplicity." At times, the author is apparently apprehensive:
                    "Fundamentally," he concludes, "Van Buren was no
                    ‘magician’ or ‘intriguer’…." (p. 3);
                    he was indeed an intriguer "only occasionally, when a situation demanded it" (p.
                    2).
            In his concluding remarks, the author indulges in some unduly expanisve rhetoric: Van Buren and his
                    colleagues "put together a splendid organization, and then gave it to the people"
                    (p. 198). Van Buren "never fully realized that from these simple beginnings a great party
                    of the people emerged, cutting across all sections and classes of the country and holding the Union
                    together" (p. 197).
            Professor Remini has clearly demonstrated Van Buren's skill in political organization, but
                    the stereotype of the "intriguer" remains. Perhaps his forthcoming biography of
                    Van Buren can reveal more fully the enigmatic personality of the man John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams described as "an amalgamated metal of lead and copper" with a
                    "tincture of aristocracy."
            
               Indiana University Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
            
               The Jacksonian Era, 1828–1848. By Glyndon G. Van Deusen. The New American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B. Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1959. Pp. xvi, 291. Illustrations, maps, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $5.00.)
            If, as Charles Dickens once said, books are the children of authors, then Professor Van Deusen can be
                    justifiably proud of a lusty, exciting, colorful offspring. This latest addition to the New American Nation Series is among the best so far; and if succeeding volumes maintain
                    the level of quality of The Jacksonian Era in combining scholarship and
                    readability, then this most recent ambitious project in a cooperative American history will at least
                    match the venerable old volumes of A. B. Hart and his colleagues.
            The old American Nation Series was conceived and presented just at the end of a
                    period when history was a staple in the reading diet of intelligent laymen. Since then there has
                    been a decline in the interest with which scholarly history has been received by this public.
                    Whether overspecialization, the emphasis on the monographic approach, and historians' lack
                    of respect for the literary aspects of their craft should bear 
                    the heaviest responsibility for this, as is so often averred, or whether this dearth of interest
                    means a lack of confidence in history as an important source of knowledge and enlightenment by a
                    harassed and confused Present cannot be discussed here. Suffice it to say that in any case the best
                    interests of good history can be impressively served by more books like The Jacksonian
                        Era.
            
            Beginning with an admirable essay on the social history of the Jacksonian setting, Professor Van
                    Deusen conducts the reader, who in the case of this reviewer was always entranced, expertly down the
                    main highroad of American history from the milepost of the election of 
                        Jackson
                     to the milepost of the election of Taylor—not, however, without a series of
                    excursions into fascinating byways, skillfully chosen to enlighten and entertain the reader with
                    appropriate detail. In illumining 
                        Jackson
                    's era the author has chosen to emphasize traditional
                    political-economic-diplomatic history. He has eschewed any startlingly "original"
                    interpretation of the period, seeking, as this reviewer sees it, to present a judicious and balanced
                    view of the events and forces of the times through a reasonable consideration of the evidence. One
                    slight disappointment to this reader was the relative lack of emphasis upon the emergence of the
                    Jacksonian ideology. A more detailed consideration of its origins, manifestations, modes of thought,
                    general influence and adherents, etc. would have been valuable in such a work, considering the
                    crucial part the Jacksonian period played in the development of a general American ideology.
            The book concludes with an excellent bibliographical essay which provides a reliable guide to the
                    enormous mass of Jacksonian literature. While every such bibliography must of course from the very
                    nature of it be selective, J. L. Blau's collection of Social Theories of
                        Jacksonian Democracy, with its stimulating introduction, might have been included.
            In sum, here is as good a popular, in the very best sense of the word, treatment of an important and
                    exciting period in the history of the 
                        United States
                     as one could desire. The author, the general editors, and the publishers are to be
                    commended.
            
               Indiana University William M. Neil
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Eureka
                        : From 
                            Cleveland
                         by Ship to 
                            California
                        , 1849–1850. By Robert Samuel Fletcher. (Durham, N.C.: Duke
                    University Press, 1959. Pp. x, 145. Map, illustrations, index. $3.00.)
            As the title indicates, this account of a gold rush expedition via Cape Horn is unusual in that the
                    barque 
                        
                            Eureka
                        
                     began her voyage at the Great Lakes port of 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               . For some of
                    us who are witnessing the final completion of the St. Lawrence Seaway, it may come as a surprise to
                    learn that an American craft with a twenty-six-foot beam should have journeyed from a point so far
                    inland over a century ago. But thanks to the special permission of the English Privy Council (and
                    American Minister to Britain, historian George Bancroft), the Welland Canal was made available, and
                    the vessel's fifty-nine passengers, most of whom were from northern 
                        Ohio
                    , began  their journey to 
                        San Francisco
                    . The passage was to last almost nine months.
            Professor Fletcher has based much of his account of the cruise on the diary of Eleazer Abbe, a
                    gold-seeker from Elyria, 
                        Ohio
                    . The Abbe Journal provided only the slenderest framework, but investigations at such
                    diverse compass points as the Bancroft Library, the Essex Institute of 
                        Salem
                    , and the National Archives turned up considerable additional information. Especially
                    rewarding has been the author's search to ascertain the fate of a number of the gold-struck
                    Buckeyes. The introductory descriptions of Ohio in the late 1840's are charmingly written,
                    evidencing Fletcher's keen appreciation for the historical setting of his narrative. He is
                    to be particularly commended for his awareness of mid-nineteenth-century socio-economic fluidity. It
                    is made clear to the reader that the adventurers aboard the 
                        
                            Eureka
                        
                     were, after all, only the most exuberant of a large proportion of Ohioans who simply could not
                    comprehend stability, be it economic or geographic.
            Approximately half of the book's 139 pages are devoted to the voyage itself. Like other
                    salt-water Forty-Niners, the Ohioans complained of miserable food, the incompetence of the
                    ship's officers, and boredom. Somehow such momentary diversions as the 
                        Cape Verde
                     Islands, Rio, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , and the traditional ceremony marking the crossing of the equator submerged the worst
                    of human frictions. The ship's miscellaneous cargo of 50,000 board feet of lumber, 169
                    stoves, a sawmill steam engine, 5 tons of grindstones, and sundry other items was complemented by a
                    human cargo almost as varied in composition. Irony surrounds the 270 gold pieces so mysteriously
                    stolen on the high seas, which reappeared a year later in the boot soles of a man innocent of the
                    theft, and who was, moreover, probably a failure in the diggings! No less unusual that the 
                  
                            Eureka
                        's birthplace in 
                        Ohio
                    , was its final abandonment at Acapulco, 
                        Mexico
                    , far from the forest of masts in 
                        San Francisco
                     Harbor.
            Author Fletcher has expertly narrated the story of the 
                        
                            Eureka
                        
                     on the basis of a prodigious amount of minute research. He may justifiably be criticized,
                    however, for being all too assiduous in the exercise of scholarly restraint. The final result of his
                    labors could well have been twice as long without losing any of its excellence. For example,
                    landlubbers might have appreciated an explanation for the seemingly out-of-the-way southeastern
                    course to the 
                        Cape Verde
                     Islands. Some readers will wish that there were more information about the ship at sea
                    or about the nautical problems entailed in tacking around Cape Horn. Nevertheless, within the
                    limitations imposed by its brevity, this little work combines all of the style found in Oscar
                    Lewis' Sea Routes to the Gold Fields and the fine scholarship of Raymond
                    A. Rydell's Cape Horn to the Pacific. Such auxiliary features as a dated
                    map of the passage, old and surprisingly well-reproduced photographs of Ohio and of 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay, the generally thorough documentation, and a fair index help make Professor
                    Fletcher's study worthy of the attention of all twentieth-century armchair Gold Rush
                    enthusiasts.
            
               San Jose State College Theodore C. Hinckley
         
         
         
            
               Civil War in the Making, 1815–1860. By Avery O. Craven. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1959. Pp. xiv, 115. $3.00.)
            In this volume, the printed version of the second series of Walter Lynwood Fleming lectures delivered
                    by Craven, the author chooses to stress "interpretation rather than to seek safety in
                    simple narrative" (p. viii) and veers away from the central theme of the first series, The Repressible Conflict, 1830–1861. The futility of singling out and
                    assigning relative importance to various factors that brought on the war is correctly emphasized.
                    The political, social, economic, and psychological elements were confused and tangled; the struggle
                    was as often over symbols as over concrete issues; and on this point Craven ventures no farther than
                    to say that slavery, states' rights, and social-economic interests acted somehow to produce
                    an accumulation that made war inevitable—if it was inevitable.
            In dealing with the transformation wrought in the 
                        United States
                     by the industrial revolution and the resulting conflict with the old ideals, the author
                    points out that the shift from the idea of sinfulness of slavery to opposition to the extension of
                    slavery and then to opposition to the continuance of slavery was almost inevitable. Concepts and
                    attitudes toward sin and its eradication, toward wealth and its creation and just distribution must
                    be understood in the Republican framework or else the southern reaction to 
                        Lincoln
                    's election makes little sense.
            The majority of the southerners are viewed as orthodox and conservative—in keeping with
                    the rural-agricultural pattern; and although relatively quiet in the late 1850's, they had
                    not forgotten that they had been denied equality in national expansion and abused and vilified by
                    the Republicans. They were angered not so much by what the Republicans had done or might do as by
                    what they had said and by the way the North had reacted to the John 
                        Brown
                     episode. Nor were Southerners interested in accepting a "colonial status in
                    the modern world of steam and organized capital" (p. 86).
            Craven feels that the increasing interdependence of man on man brought by the industrial revolution
                    was not accompanied by the requisite increase of humility, intelligence, and patience necessary to
                    make the democratic process work. The sections embraced different sets of values, each believing it
                    was defending the old way of life, ideals, or what it held to be civilization. The extremists, North
                    and South, "made war inevitable" and forced use of the most undemocratic means to
                    save the democratic values.
            This is an excellent little volume of interpretations and should help to remind the reader that
                    history is not a series of vaudeville skits but a continuous play built on a developing theme.
            
               Indiana, University Chase C. Mooney
         
         
         
            
               The Secret Service of the Confederate States in Europe, or How the Confederate
                        Cruisers Were Equipped. Two volumes. By James D. Bulloch. Introduction by Philip Van Doren
                    Stern. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Yoseloff, 1959. Vol. I: Pp. x1, 460. Vol. II: Pp. x, 459. Illustrations, notes,
                    index. $15.00 per set.)
            This work was first published in 1883, in 
                        London
                    , and the next year it was brought out by G. P. Putnam's Sons of 
                        New York
                    , using the same plates. The present edition is an offset of the original publication,
                    the only differences being that the corrections noted in the original errata sheet were worked into
                    the present text, and there have been included an Introduction, a chart of Confederate cruisers of
                    European origin, a chronology, some explanatory notes, an index, and more than a half-hundred
                    illustrations, mostly from Harper's Weekly. Since all three editions of
                    this work came from the same type, the page numbering remains the same throughout.
            James D. Bulloch, the author, was descended from distinguished ancestors, his great-grandfather
                    having been the first elected governor of 
                        Georgia
                     in the Revolution; and it is well known that his half-sister Martha was married to
                    Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., and became the mother of President Theodore Roosevelt. According to a
                    modern appraisal of Bulloch, he was "an accomplished scholar with a thorough knowledge of
                    maritime and international law…[and] had a distinguished personality, magnetic courtly
                    manners, and was courteous and kind" (Dictionary of American Biography
                    [22 vols., 
                        New York
                    , 1928–1958], III, 258).
            The appearance of Bulloch's work attracted no immediate attention in the learned journals of 
                        England
                    ; but in the 
                        United States
                     there was a considerable outcry, somewhat mixed, but predominantly
                    bitter—the war was too near for an objective appraisal. The Atlantic
                    rated Bulloch's work "very interesting and valuable," his tone
                    "extremely temperate…and perfectly impartial," while he remained on his
                    main theme, but when he drifted into the subjects of politics and personalities (especially
                    Secretary Seward), this journal bitterly assailed him (LIII [February, 1884], 260–267).
                        Harper's Monthly Magazine saw little to commend (LXVIII [February,
                    1884], 483–484.)
            The war having receded almost a century into the past, it is now possible to give Bulloch's
                    work a more objective appraisal. He wrote with an easy, flowing style which maintains the
                    reader's interest, despite his tendency to wander off the main theme; but he always makes
                    his transitions easy and understandable. It is high praise to say that in point of interest, his
                    work is in the class of Admiral Semmes' account of the cruise of the 
                        
                            Alabama
                        
                    —and why some enterprising publisher has not republished Semmes is a mystery, but
                    possibly a reprint is in gestation now.
            The main theme of Bulloch's work, as the title indicates, is the building and outfitting of
                    the Confederate cruisers. In carrying out this task, both in 
                        England
                     and in 
                        France
                    , he had terrific obstacles to overcome, not only in securing funds but also in
                    circumventing the eternal vigilance of Charles Francis Adams, American Minister to 
                        England
                    , and of the various consuls and secret agents. In addition to recounting  his activities along these lines, Bulloch passes judgment on the lack
                    of neutrality of the British in allowing themselves to be bluffed by Seward, and he devotes much of
                    his second volume to a discussion of British policy and to a refutation of the 
                        United States
                    ' case in the 
                        Geneva
                     arbitration of the 
                        
                            Alabama
                        
                     claims. His explanation of why the British accepted so many of the American contentions
                    respecting the requirements of neutrality and agreed to the "Three Rules of the Treaty of 
                        Washington
                    ," lay in their view that in some future war John Bull might well profit from
                    them.
            The verdict of history, if there be such a thing, has largely upheld Bulloch; and the republication
                    of this scarce and valuable work is a distinct service to scholarship.
            
               University of 
                            Georgia
                        
                E. Merton Coulter
         
         
            
               Quartermaster General of the Union Army: A Biography of M. C. Meigs. By Russell
                    F. Weigley. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. x, 396. Bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            The flood tide of Civil War literature continues. "Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor
                    gloom of night stays these…." authors from the swift completion of yet another
                    volume. By this day, hard on the eve of the war's centenary, most of the famous men and
                    incidents have been used, re-used, and written off; all that remain are the arid acres of secondary
                    and tertiary figures connected with the conflict. Yet the massive interest in the Civil War persists
                    and grows stronger with each year.
            Amid all the epics about the Civil War published in recent years, all the recapitulations of events
                    under new titles, there are a few new books which deserve a place in the war bibliography. Professor
                    Weigley's book is such a study, for Meigs is the last major figure of the war without a
                    full-length biography.
            On June 13, 1861, Montgomery Cunningham Meigs was appointed Quartermaster General of the Union Army.
                    It was a desirable choice; probably no other man in the army had experience comparable to
                    Meigs's in dealing with Congress, private businessmen, and in supervising large contracts
                    involving disparate materials. As an engineer Meigs had constructed the 
                        Washington
                     aqueduct and had been in charge of the construction of the extensions to the national
                    Capitol. Meigs brought to the office of quartermaster general energy, honesty, and self-reliance in
                    an age when honesty in dealing with the federal government was on the decline.
            Immediately on assuming office Meigs faced a battery of problems. 
                        Lincoln
                     had already issued a call for troops; it was up to Meigs to find equipment to supply
                    their needs. By the end of the war, although criticized at times by the public, Congress, and some
                    military commanders, Meigs was able to point to a number of significant accomplishments. Among these
                    was the policy of making government purchases on a competitive bid basis—during the early
                    part of the war Meigs had been compelled to buy what was necessary at the price asked.  Plagued by political pressure, demands for equipment for the army, and
                    also demands that he buy only American manufactures, Meigs had bought supplies abroad until domestic
                    prices became competitive, so that by 1865 only blankets were still bought abroad. There were other
                    problems that Meigs did not solve: political interference, the need for increasing his own staff to
                    satisfactory proportions, the reduction of turnover in trained personnel. Thus, by 1865 Meigs had
                    taken the office of quartermaster general in hand and had established some definite practices to be
                    used in the purchasing of supplies for the army. It is a tribute to Meigs that this task was done
                    successfully.
            Professor Weigley has done an excellent job with this biography. Not only does he describe the career
                    of an important military officer in a critical era, but he projects to the reader a sense of the
                    man's personality. Meigs was something of a puritan, and once he had made up his mind as to
                    the path of rectitude, he rarely changed it. Meigs was frequently argumentative, especially when he
                    was criticized for some action he firmly believed to be correct. All this and more Weigley includes
                    in an able biography about an interesting soldier in a time of national crisis. The index is
                    exceptionally complete.
            
               Morris Harvey College John A. Kinnaman
         
         
            
               Prince Napoleon in America, 1861: Letters from, His Aide-de-Camp. By
                    Lieutenant-Colonel Camille Ferri Pisani. Translated with a preface by Georges J. Joyaux. Foreword by
                    Bruce Catton. (Bloom-ington: Indiana University Press, 1959. Pp. 317. Illustrations, notes.
                    $6.75.)
            Georges Joyaux, of Michigan State University, has produced a graceful and flowing translation of
                    letters that Lieutenant-Colonel Camille Ferri Pisani, aide-de-camp of Prince Napoleon, wrote to his
                    superior officer, Colonel de Franconière, in 
                        Paris
                    , describing the progress of the royal tour in America during the two months immediately
                    after the Battle of Bull Run in July, 1861. The translation is a particularly sensitive one and
                    succeeds in capturing the poetry of the author's descriptions, which are at their best
                    unusually refreshing and colorful.
            It is too bad that the author of these letters was not able to tour even longer and more extensively
                    in this country, although he covered a broad geographic area as it was. The party set out from 
                        New York
                     and visited 
                  Washington, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh,
                            Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, St.
                            Louis, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Boston
                    . They saw such varied examples of Americana as the White House, 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Cherry Hill Penitentiary, Girard College, and 
                        Harvard
                     University, as well as visiting encampments of both the Northern and Southern armies.
                    Ferri Pisani's view of America, therefore, was not based upon a brief, comfortable, and
                    carefully conducted tour of one of the large cities. He saw all sorts of people from President
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , with whom his party dined, to Little Hare, an Indian guide, who took the touring
                    visitors for a canoe trip through the rapids at Sault Sainte Marie.
            Ferri Pisani was interested in people, and he ably described and characterized many of the leading
                    figures in American life, both  political and military. Ferri
                    Pisani felt that President 
                        Lincoln
                     was a benevolent giant "without brillance," quite overshadowed by his
                    quick, witty, shrewd Secretary of State, William H. Seward. General Pierre Beauregard, General
                    Albert S. Johnston, and the aging General Winfield Scott, leaning on the arm of General George B.
                    McClellan, were observed at their military headquarters and are given fascinating and incisive
                    characterization.
            The author had interests in America other than its people. He commented upon American business,
                    transportation, geology, military affairs, the armies of North and South, politics, education, and
                    religion. In addition Ferri Pisani was something of a philosopher. He felt that America in 1861,
                    like 
                        France
                     in the eighteenth century, was in all probability going quickly in the direction of
                    military dictatorship and that the new order was to be in the hands of what he called a new class of
                    people in America, the West Pointers. This philosophical observer also discoursed upon rationalism
                    and deism and on what seemed to him to be their erosive effects upon Protestantism in general and
                    the Congregational and Unitarian churches in particular.
            Ferri Pisani was wrong about a great many things. 
                        Lincoln
                     was not overthrown by Seward. A Napoleonic regime did not succeed Wash-ingtonian
                    democracy following a collapse of the Northern armies. General John C. Fremont did not play the role
                    Ferri Pisani seemed to imply he might, nor did he run for president against 
                        Lincoln
                     in 1860, as the translator points out. An historian could indeed find many points of
                    difference with the writer in fact and in conclusion, but nevertheless Ferri Pisani's
                    letters offer a great deal to the modern scholar and general reader. His gloomy view of many 
                        Washington
                     politicians has only too authentic a ring. His barbed comment upon the American
                    "genius for publicity"—Barnum-style—certainly is a
                    recognizable facet of American life, and his characterization of many Americans as original,
                    inventive, and daring calls to mind Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner's evaluation of them at the turn of the century.
            Altogether this volume contains a fascinating collection of impressions of mid-nineteenth century
                    America, and it affords important insights into many sorts of questions and problems which the
                    professional historian might well utilize, or at least take into account. Professor Joyaux has
                    performed a service in making this fairly objective, shrewd, and humorously critical observation of
                    America available to a larger number of Americans who should be after all the ones most interested
                    in it.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College Mary Steele Owen
         
         
            
               Portrait of America: Letters of Henry Sienkiewicz. Edited and translated by
                    Charles Morley. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xix, 300. Frontispiece, index. $5.00.)
            The English translation of nearly all Sienkiewicz's letters from America will be welcomed by
                    students of Polish literature and also by those interested in a portrayal of America in the
                    1870's by a prominent European writer. Although, as Charles Morley points out in his
                    introduction,  some of these letters have previously been
                    translated, the present book is their first comprehensive publication in the English language. An
                    excellent introduction provides most of the necessary background, while the letters themselves give
                    the reader ample material for thought and reflection. The author of the Quo Vadis
                    was undoubtedly a shrewd observer and many of his remarks have validity even today. Sienkiewicz
                    analyzes the contrast between the American and the European forms of democracy and enumerates the
                    three elments characteristic of America: respect for labor, absence of an educational gulf between
                    the upper and the lower classes (a gulf so prominent in Europe), and a certain uniformity of
                    manners. Although conditions have changed a good deal since the late nineteenth century, some of
                    these characteristics may still strike European visitors in the mid-twentieth century. Many European
                    visitors would agree with other observations made by Sienkiewicz, for instance those on 
                        New York
                    , American cuisine, or the position of women in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Sienkiewicz discusses, of course, also the America that is gone forever, the America of the wild
                    West, of the open spaces, and of the pioneering frontier. But even in this respect his remarks
                    compare favorably with those of many other nineteenth-century travelers. Perhaps the writer, coming
                    from a predominantly agricultural country like 
                        Poland
                    , had a better understanding of and more sympathy for agrarian America than such
                    representatives of highly urbanized societies as Dickens or Tocqueville.
            Professor Morley has done an excellent job of translating and editing the volume. One might disagree
                    with his method of anglicizing Polish first names—I would prefer Henryk
                    to Henry—but this is but a minor point. The book is a timely and useful
                    publication which serves well its double purpose of giving us an insight into Sienkiewicz's
                    personality on the one hand, and on the other, a portrait of America as it existed over eighty years
                    ago.
            
               Indiana University Piotr S. Wandycz
         
         
            
               History of the Progressive Party, 1912–1916. By Amos R. E. Pinchot.
                    Edited by Helene Maxwell Hooker. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        New York
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. xii, 305. Appendices, notes, index. $7.50.)
            Among the Amos Pinchot Papers at the Library of Congress are two unfinished drafts of a history of
                    the Progressive party which Helene M. Hooker has rescued from neglect by a skillful editorial job.
                    Pinchot did not attempt to write a comprehensive study of the party but to present chronologically
                    arranged recollections of events which were still subject to controversy a generation later. A
                    comparison of judgments expressed by Pinchot during the Progressive era and in the early
                    thirties—when his projected history took shape—indicates that the passage of
                    time improved his perspective. No drastically new interpretations of the third party movement are
                    proposed in Pinchot's study; Roosevelt, LaFollette, and others are described charitably but
                    in familiar terms.
            
            Nevertheless, Pinchot's work is a significant contribution to our understanding of the
                    Progressive mind because Amos Pinchot was typical of the young idealists who entered the reform
                    movement. His comments on Progressive leaders and their policies provide us with genuine insight
                    into the friction between the crusaders and the politicians who undertook to reduce idealistic
                    principles to cautious formulas that would win elections. Pinchot's account of his
                    relations with Roosevelt reflects the collision of different philosophies and methods at the
                    personal level. Through his elder brother, Gifford, Amos Pinchot had met the redoubtable Teddy while
                    the latter was still president. Casual social encounters, however, did not ripen into political
                    intimacy between them until after the insurgent revolt against Taft had begun in 1910. Thenceforward
                    the Pinchot brothers engaged in what they regarded as an epic struggle to save the soul of Roosevelt
                    from Satanic conservatives like Lodge and Root. The Pinchots advised Roosevelt about political
                    tactics, rewrote his speeches, and drew him into long discussions about Progressive principles. In
                    general, their strategy was to entice him onto such advanced radical ground that he could no longer
                    retreat. They redoubled their efforts at the end of 1911 when it seemed probable that Roosevelt
                    would be a presidential candidate. Of the two, Amos was the more emphatic and doctrinaire in his
                    counsel.
            The success of the Pinchot campaign varied inversely with improvements in Roosevelt's
                    political prospects. Whenever the Colonel was irresolute about his plans for 1912, he submitted to
                    skull sessions on ideology good humoredly and even acted on the advice of the Pinchot brothers
                    occasionally. But once Roosevelt decided to bid for the presidency, he relied increasingly on
                    advisors who could deliver votes and campaign funds rather than on "the pure in
                    heart." This plan of action is, of course, the classic strategy of candidates who want to
                    win elections. Gifford accepted the new situation cheerfully, but Amos continued to harass Roosevelt
                    with demands for forthright Progressive platforms and for the ousting of industrialists and machine
                    politicians from key party posts. By 1914 the estrangement of the idealist from the practical
                    reformer was complete. Read in conjunction with Miss Hooker's introductory biographical
                    sketch of Amos Pinchot, his study of the Progressive mind provides a useful corrective to the glib
                    generalization that rank and file Progressives were the spiritual progeniters of the New Deal.
            
               Purdue University George H. Mayer
         
         
            
               W. E. B. DuBois: Negro Leader in a Time of Crisis. By Francis L. Broderick. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xiii, 259. Frontispiece, bibliographical note, notes,
                    index. $5.00.)
            In a volume of two hundred some pages, Francis L. Broderick has managed to trace the many facets of
                    the career of the man, now over ninety years old, who, along with Frederick Douglass and Booker T.
                    Washington, is frequently referred to as one of the three most influential Negro leaders since the
                    Civil War. The book is a biography of  a complex individual of
                    remarkable gifts and equally glaring weaknesses as well as an appraisal of DuBois' role as
                    a race leader. In his own lifetime DuBois has become almost a mythical figure and has himself
                    sedulously contributed to that myth. Although obviously fascinated by his subject, Broderick has not
                    allowed himself to be so dazzled as to lose his objectivity. Instead he has done a penetrating job
                    of separating the man from the myth. He has been fortunate in having at his disposal much material,
                    both published and unpublished. His work is limited, however, by the fact that he was able to use
                    DuBois' own personal papers only for the period before 1910.
            DuBois' life has been a crusade for full equality for the American Negro and for colored
                    people everywhere. The strategy employed in the crusade has changed many times; but in spite of his
                    own inconsistencies and vagaries, DuBois has always been intolerant of those who have disagreed with
                    him. As champion of the "Talented Tenth" and leader of the Niagara Movement he was
                    loud in his denunciation of Booker T. Washington, but Broderick points out that the conflict between
                    the two men was more over differences as to methods than over basic aims.
            DuBois probably attained his greatest stature during the period from 1910 to 1934 when he was editor
                    of Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
                    People. In this position he had ample opportunity to use his brilliant talents as editor and
                    propagandist. After the death of 
                        Washington
                     in 1915 no one else spoke with as much authority and influence for American Negroes.
                    But although to most people DuBois was the voice of the NAACP, the entire period of his editorship
                    was marked by tensions and antagonisms, first with the white liberals who dominated the association
                    in the early years and later with Negro leaders.
            Dubois apparently had read little of Marx until about 1930 and never really assimilated Marxist
                    dogma. Although he early displayed a sympathy for Communist Russia, he was scornful of the American
                    Communist party for years, insisting that it sought to exploit Negroes for its own ends. But after
                    the Second World War, when his own star was in eclipse and his influence had waned, he established
                    an entente with the extreme left. He participated in various "peace movements,"
                    denounced American "imperialism," and ran for the 
                        United States
                     Senate at the age of eighty-two on the American Labor ticket; nevertheless Broderick
                    thinks DuBois retained his intellectual independence.
            The lasting significance of DuBois' career lies first in his unwavering demand for full
                    equality and his influence in persuading Negroes to settle for nothing less; secondly, his own life
                    and writings have inspired younger Negroes to carry on the fight.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               The Man in the White House: His Powers and Duties. By Wilfred E. Binkley. (
                        Baltimore
                    , Md.: Johns Hopkins Press, 1959. Pp. [ix], 310. Bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            As one may expect from the pen of Professor Binkley, of the Department of Political Science of Ohio
                    Northern University, this is a provocative book. Although there is nothing new in its contents,
                    there is,  of course, a slightly different approach and
                    emphasis, and new interpretations are suggested. It is a book obviously designed with the general
                    reading public in mind. It is popular light reading, and the serious student of American history and
                    government will not find it too useful, except to corroborate his own opinions or to challenge them.
            The Preface states that the work was "undertaken in the belief that it is time to take one
                    more comprehensive survey" of the American presidency as an ever evolving institution. The
                    various transformations which have taken place from 1789 to the present are discussed from the
                    chronological standpoint. This type of treatment makes for considerable repetition since each
                    modification is traced through the various presidencies.
            According to the jacket blurb, the book combines brilliant scholarship with lively style. The latter
                    is certainly true, but it is unfortunate that the footnotes contain so few substantial references to
                    primary sources. Indeed, the bibliography itself is made up almost, if not entirely, of secondary
                    sources. Perhaps, however, this is understandable in a work of broad character.
            There are fourteen chapters in the book and each one could stand by itself. Actually, several have
                    been published previously in whole or in part in various periodicals, and the result is that the
                    book lacks proper cohesion. Some of the chapters, however, are very well done—for
                    instance, Chapter IX, "The Chief Executive." Chapter III, "Pressures on
                    the President," is also stimulating, but one wonders why Polk and Theodore Roosevelt were
                    not included in this discussion. The author gives credit for some of the material in Chapter X,
                    "Implementing the Presidency," to Professor Lester G. Seligman, whose paper,
                    "Informal Organization, Presidential Leadership, and Institutionalization: A Case
                    Study," was read at a panel discussion at the annual American Political Science Association
                    meeting in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1954.
            One may have some difficulty accepting certain dogmatic conclusions (and prophesies!) throughout this
                    book. To cite just one example, there seems to be insufficient justification for the statement:
                    "For the time being the Senate has become the recruiting ground for
                    vice-presidents" (p. 275). If such a thing were possible, it would be extremely interesting
                    to hear what comments the presidents themselves would make in support or rebuttal of Professor
                    Binkley's arguments.
            It may be expected that this will not be the last "comprehensive survey of the American
                    presidency" to be undertaken, but it may be hoped that the next attempt will more
                    adequately reflect the best in modern scholarship.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College I. George Blake
         
         
            
               The Supreme Court in Modern Role. By Carl Brent Swisher. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        New York
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. vii, 214. Notes, index. $4.95.)
            This excellent volume consists of material which Professor Carl B. Swisher presented in the James
                    Stokes Lectures on Politics at 
                        New York
                     University in 1957. The book is comprised of six brief essays  that cover some major controversial aspects of modern constitutional
                    problems. Each essay is developed along historical lines with an examination of these problems in
                    their modern role.
            In the essay titled "The Court and the Sweep of History," Professor Swisher says
                    that the task of the Court has always been "to find and declare stability and certainty in
                    the law. But at an overwhelming rate of speed conditions have changed….As to the true
                    path of the law, the Court quite as much as the people has often been in a state of
                    bewilderment" (p. 32).
            The essays on "Checkrein upon Government," "The Goal of Judicial
                    Endeavor," and "The Place of the Military" offer basically sound
                    conclusions. For example, Professor Swisher declares that "whether judicial preoccupation
                    is primarily with positive or negative constitutional provisions, the function of the Supreme Court
                    is predominantly negative" (p. 64). And in discussing the relationship between the
                    executive and the military, the author cites a statement of Roosevelt during World War II that might
                    well have been made by 
                        Lincoln
                     during the Civil War: "I cannot tell what powers may have to be exercised in
                    order to win…. When the war is won, the powers under which I act automatically revert to
                    the people—to whom they belong" (p. 109).
            Swisher's essays on subversion and race, however, are the most significant and the most
                    provocative in this fine book. In "The Threat of Subversion," it is demonstrated
                    that although Americans have emphasized maximum freedom for the individual and have de-emphasized
                    conformity, "threats to our basic beliefs and our internal cohesion have brought the
                    curbing of individual liberty and the liberty of dissenting factions…." And the
                    Supreme Court at such a time, "if it speaks at all, is required either to flout the
                    contemporary demand for coercion or to adduce a body of organic theory that has no adequate rootage
                    in our traditions" (pp. 67–68).
            The essay "Race and the Constitution" makes interesting comparisons between the
                    Dred Scott case of a century ago and the 
                        Brown
                     case. Swisher explores numerous phases of the complicated racial relationships in the 
                        United States
                     at present and in the past. He concludes, and probably wisely, "our immediate
                    governmental responsibility, therefore, is to provide the conditions of formal legal equality over
                    the succeeding decades, while unjustified convictions of inequality are gradually being
                    dissipated…." (p. 160).
            In these essays Professor Swisher summarizes skillfully the main constitutional problems that modern
                    America must solve. His ability to penetrate to the heart of these complicated problems, combined
                    with the rich background he supplies, demonstrates again his outstanding qualifications in the field
                    of American constitutional law.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University David M. Silver
         
         
         
            
               The Great Rebellion. Volume II, The King's War,
                        1641–1647. By C. V. Wedgwood. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1959. Pp. 702. Illustrations, maps, appendix, bibliographical note,
                    references, index. $7.50.)
            The English Civil War from 1641–1647 has some striking resemblances to our own Civil War.
                    In both conflicts there was a profound difference between the protagonists as to where
                    constitutional sovereignty rested (the king versus Parliament and the federal government versus the
                    states); there was also a deep ideological issue which divided the partisans (the freedom of the
                    English church and the freedom of the Negro slave); then, too, there was the late emergence of a
                    popular military hero (Ulysses S. Grant in some respects had his prototype in Oliver Cromwell) who
                    later succeeded to the executive leadership of the nation in the aftermath of reconstruction. In at
                    least two important ways, however, these irrepressible conflicts diverged. First, the fortunes of
                    both 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        Ireland
                     heavily impinged on English affairs in a way that no other nation, not even Great
                    Britain, influenced American concerns from 1861–1865. Second, in the 
                        United States
                     the great rebellion failed; in 
                        England
                    , it succeeded.
            It is not from the point of view of the victorious parliamentary forces under Cromwell's
                    leadership that Miss Wedgwood has framed her fascinating narrative account of the troubled
                    mid-1640's. That has already been done by her predecessors: Gardiner, Firth, and Trevelyan,
                    whose distinguished company Miss Wedgwood joins in this second volume of her history of The Great Rebellion. Instead, by stressing the royalist defeat rather than the
                    parliamentary victory, she dramatically evokes sympathy for the King from the time of his attempted
                    arrest of the Five Members in January, 1642, until the tragic denouement in January, 1647, when he
                    was handed over to the New Model Army by the Scots.
            It is not, however, the figure of the harassed and intransigent King that captures the
                    reader's imagination. Rather, it is the King's nephew and most successful military
                    leader, Prince Rupert, of whom Miss Wedgwood writes: "He inspired in those who knew him
                    best a deep and lasting loyalty, and he easily gained and held the affection and respect of his
                    troops, for he was enduring in hardship, fearless in danger, quick to recognise merit, and as
                    indifferent to praise himself as he was generous in giving credit to others" (p. 159). This
                    is a tribute worthy of Robert E. Lee.
            At times the author seems to be redressing the historiographical weight against the royalist side.
                    For example, on the question of Charles I's forced loans, which had been regarded by most
                    parliamentarians as a serious infringement of the rights of the subject, she shows how the Long
                    Parliament had to resort to this very device in order to finance its war against the King. Or again,
                    on the subject of the much vaunted religiosity of the parliamentary forces, Miss Wedgwood imputes
                    much the same outlook to the King's forces through Sir Jacob Astley. On the eve of battle
                    this royalist uttered: "O Lord, thou knowest how busy I must be this day. If I forget thee,
                    do not thou forget me" (p. 136). It is, then, by the skillful weaving of descriptive bits
                    as to "how" this or  that happened that the
                    author answers by implication, but seldom by direct analysis, the question of
                    "why" this or that happened.
            Less satisfactory than Miss Wedgwood's brilliant accounts of the battles of Edgehill,
                    Marston Moor, and Naseby is her handling of the religious question. Although the distinction between
                    Presbyterian and Independent is correctly stressed, the reader does not receive a clear picture of
                    just who the Independents were. They are not defined as the group most concerned with religious
                    toleration but instead are identified with decreasing accuracy as the dominant body in the New Model
                    Army, the political party known as the Levellers, and the majority in the House of Commons. On this
                    last group, the Independents cannot be said to have had a majority in the Commons until
                    Pride's Purge of the Presbyterians in December, 1648. But this is a minor criticism of a
                    work whose author is unsurpassed in her knowledge of the source materials and whose style of writing
                    is both engaging and scholarly.
            
               Indiana University Leo F. Solt
         
         
            
               George III and the Historians. Revised edition. By Herbert Butterfield. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1959. Pp. 304. Index. $5.00.)
            Historians have many weaknesses, but among the most common is a tendency to set up straw men in order
                    to accomplish their destruction more impressively. Herbert Butterfield, Master of Peterhouse, 
                        Cambridge
                     University, has done just this in his recent book George III and the
                        Historians. The straw man in this case is the Namier school of historians, a group whose
                    flaws are grotesquely exaggerated by Professor Butterfield in overzealous efforts to discredit his
                    colleagues.
            First published two years ago in 
                        England
                    , George III and the Historians now appears in a slightly revised
                    American edition. But apart from increasing the book's availability, there seems little
                    justification for transporting an unhappy and tasteless controversy from its native English shores.
                    Perhaps attacking each other has become the favorite pastime of British historians; Hugh
                    Trevor-Roper's savage indictment of Toynbee's alleged pretensions to divinity is
                    one recent sample of the acerbity with which English scholars can write of each other. While
                    Professor Butterfield never quite attains the level of Trevor-Roper's invective, his prose
                    waxes warm in treating the Namier school as "the most powerfully organized squadron in our
                    historical world," developing "so formidable an orthodoxy as to check the free
                    play of criticism" (p. 10). Suffice it to note that Butterfield's criticism enjoys
                    an impressive freedom of play.
            Here then is a controversial book. If it served to explore the nature of its own controversy some
                    useful purpose would be served. But instead Butterfield supplies an extraordinarily obscure and
                    allusive study of the historiography of eighteenth-century 
                        England
                     with the primary objective of minimizing the contributions of the Namier group of
                    historians. In short, Butterfield seems to be fearful of historical empire-building by Sir Lewis
                    Namier, who just thirty years ago published his famous study of The Structure of
                        Politics at the Accession of George  III. Here Namier
                    provided a detailed examination of the personnel of the House of Commons, demonstrating the absence
                    of any modern concept of a political party and proving that the prevailing notions of Whigs and
                    Tories would have to be modified substantially. He followed this work with 
                  
                            England
                         in the Age of the American Revolution (1930), in which he argued that George
                    III was constitutional in his conduct and had little choice other than to select his ministers in
                    the absence of a party system, even though this very action became a political issue upon which a
                    Whig party developed. Namier's careful research disclosed that the old ideas of the
                    omnipotent monarch were baseless, that George III had in fact a highly limited Civil List and Secret
                    Service Fund, and that his patronage potential was relatively confined. Like Butterfield, Namier has
                    made many brilliant excursions away from the eighteenth century, but returned to the fold in 1952
                    with the excellent "Monarchy and the Party System," in Personalities
                        and Powers (
                        London
                    , 1955). He is currently undertaking a revision of his earlier work as part of a series
                    which he is directing, titled 
                  
                            England
                         in the Age of the American Revolution. Among the historians who have followed
                    Namier's technique and arguments, Butterfield has singled out Romney Sedgwick, John Brooke,
                    and J. B. Owen, who seem to comprise the menacing historical fleet so much to be feared.
            The real basis for such a fear is hard to ascertain. Butterfield himself shares wide areas of
                    agreement with Namier—indeed, it would be difficult to do otherwise. But Butterfield does
                    argue for the existence of more of a party system than Namier would concede. And Butterfield does
                    justly rebuke John Brooke for a species of one-upmanship—Brooke fails to cite secondary
                    works which he must have used and so suggests an unreal originality of material and thought. On the
                    other hand, Stephen Potter himself would be proud to point to Butterfield's assumptive and
                    obscurantist performance as a superlative example of one-upmanship in reviewing. George
                        III and the Historians is in essence just a long and rather ill-contrived book review with
                    little of the charm, urbanity, and insight usually associated with Herbert Butterfield. The only
                    enjoyable section of what seems an awfully long book is the excellent opening essay, "The
                    Historian and His Evidence," which should be required reading for all would-be historians.
            Butterfield's American publishers concede that here is a book "of special interest
                    to professional historians," but this reviewer would suggest that amateur ranks will swell
                    suspiciously if this is to be a test of status. Stephen Potter would enjoy it, but for vastly
                    different reasons.
            
               Indiana University H. Trevor Colbourn
         
         
            
               The Canal Builders: The Story of Canal Engineers Through the Ages. By Robert
                    Payne. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1959. Pp. ix, 278. Illustrations, maps, select bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Like a summer tourist scurrying around Europe, Mr. Payne's superficial story gallops through
                    more than five thousand years of  canaling, pauses briefly to
                    glance at famous ditches, then scampers on. Ancient 
                        Egypt
                    , Sumeria, Assyria, Persia, 
                  Greece, Rome
               , Arabia, and 
                        China
                     jostle in two cursory chapters totaling fifty-three pages. Following a fairly full
                    treatment of Italian canals, a hasty glimpse of the Languedoc, and a fragmentary survey of British
                    waterways, a summary of twenty-four pages disposes of American canals. Only five pages concern the 
                        Erie
                    ; four, the canals of Ohio and 
                  Pennsylvania; Illinois
                gets casual
                    attention; Michigan and Indiana none. An elaborate historical prelude on the 
                        Panama
                     Canal compresses the account of its construction, with all the attendant struggle, into
                    a meager four pages. In a short finale two hundred years of Russian canaling huddle alongside a
                    brief account of the building of the St. Lawrence Seaway, with scant comfort to either. There is no
                    account of Flemish canals, and inadequate comment on others.
            The subtitle of this volume is misleading, for not enough is said about engineers, little about
                    engineering, i.e., about the ingenuity of the Chinese or problems of designers, ancient and modern.
                    In a stereotyped way we hear about the lives and times of Leonardo, Riquet, Brindley, Telford, de
                    Lesseps, and Goethals. For some unknown reason the story of de Lesseps' Suez triumph
                    violates chronology by appearing after his 
                        Panama
                     fiasco and senility. Conspicuous absentees from Payne's book are other
                    well-known engineers: Sir William Rennie and James Watt, notable Britishers; Benjamin Wright, chief
                    engineer of the 
                        Erie
                    ; his able assistants, James Gedds and Canvass White; Nathan Roberts, expert
                    lock-builder; and Jesse Williams, chief engineer in Indiana.
            The quantity of anecdote included in this volume would be more entertaining if less burdened with
                    chestnuts told by canal historians for the past 150 years. The style varies from spruce to shoddy.
                    At times Mr. Payne writes well, then, like a college freshman, lapses into shambling aggregations of
                    phrases and clauses loosely connected, sometimes illogically, by the ubiquitous
                    "and." Such rickety construction implies hasty workmanship.
            Skimming the surface of centuries of incredible human effort, this book is dilettante fluff;
                    perfunctory coverage and too many omissions are inevitable defects of cramping a large subject into
                    a narrow space. The inquiring reader will find greater rewards in the Encyclopedia
                        Britannica. Still, the cover of blue and gray adorned with silver lettering is handsome,
                    the typography pleasing. The publisher has admirably reproduced four maps and twenty-two pictures.
            
               Purdue University Paul Fatout
         
         
            
               Keeping the University Free and Growing. By Herman Lee Donovan. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of Kentucky Press, 1959. Pp. xi, 162. Frontispiece, appendices, index.
                    $4.00.)
            
               Keeping the University Free and Growing is the testament of an obviously sincere
                    and devoted man, President Emeritus Herman Lee  Donovan of the
                    University of 
                        Kentucky
                     (1941–1956). This kind of work, with its straightforward approach to such
                    perennial problems as the ever increasing encroachment of political controls upon the functions of
                    governing boards and with its concern for academic freedom and institutional integrity, is always
                    welcome reading. Those who care about the present and future of the academic world need such
                    summaries of insights and experiences from the elder statesmen of higher education. It is, perhaps,
                    with this need in mind that President Donovan deals with a wide variety of topics—from
                    financing to athletics and from building programs to student citizenship—with the
                    addition of an interesting bit of what must be pure introspection entitled, "The Role of
                    the University President."
            Yet, despite President Donovan's eagerness to speak forth decisively for the maintenance and
                    growth of the great traditions of university development, his book may prove disappointing to some
                    who seek an ordered rationale for the conduct of a major state university. For one thing, as this
                    reviewer sees the book, the author never quite tells us what he considers to be the bedrock on which
                    a free and dynamic university must rest. For another, with certain exceptions, it is difficult to
                    discover the man behind the statements—his basic personality and fundamental convictions
                    do not seem to come through his prose.
            We need to know what kind of men have served in the past, so that we can more successfully fill the
                    presidential chairs of the future. We cannot, of course, expect all such works as this to have the
                    magisterial tone of a Henry Wriston or a James Conant, the deliberate controversialism of a Robert
                    Hutching, or the calm intellectuality of a Nathan Pusey. It would be unrealistic to expect all
                    university presidents to articulate on these olympian levels. Still, these are the heights from
                    which clear views can be had of the insidious crises being bred in new forms in our confusing world
                    of expanding mass education.
            If President Donovan does not quite take us to these heights, if at times his book fails in that it
                    sounds a bit too much like copy-work or a report to a constituency of matters the constitiuency
                    wants to hear, he is aware of the heights reached by others and pays tribute to the ideals they have
                    proclaimed. Further, it is apparent that he has, at times with a commendable sense of urgency,
                    attempted to live and work by the ideals of his more luminous contemporaries. Some, after all, must
                    always confine themselves to the sheer hard work of translating ideas into practice, and if done
                    well, this is a distinguished achievement in itself. The future, not this review, will make the
                    final judgment.
            
               Indiana University John C. Buhner
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               My First Seventy Years. By Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1959. Pp. xii, 172. $3.50.)
            This autobiography reveals Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary's College since
                    1934, as a remarkable person. A native of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , she studied medieval history under Professors Munro and Sellery at the University of
                    Wisconsin when she was only seventeen years of age and found her study "a thoroughly
                    satisfying experience in education" (p. 21). Soon she entered St. Mary's College,
                    and for more than half a century she has served as novitiate and nun. Meanwhile, she has been a
                    teacher, scholar, and/or administrator at the college level during nearly all of her adult years. In
                    1925 she became the first Catholic sister to receive the doctorate from the University of California
                    at 
                        Berkeley
                    , and later she studied at 
                        Oxford
                    , amid study and travel in Europe. In 1958 Sister Madeleva was granted an honorary
                    doctorate by Indiana University.
            Sister Madeleva has long viewed education in a staunchly liberal tradition as properly a lifetime
                    pursuit. An unusually persuasive and capable exponent of Roman Catholicism, she has, moreover,
                    accomplished much in building bridges of good will and mutual understanding among persons and groups
                    with divergent religious, racial, and cultural backgrounds.
            
               Indiana Legislative Issues 1959: Proceedings of the Governor's Pre-legislative
                        Conference. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Bureau of Government Research, Indiana University, [1959]. Pp. x, 115. Graphs, tables,
                    maps. Paperbound, free.)
            Prior to the last three biennial sessions of the Indiana General Assembly there have been
                    pre-legislative conferences at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . The last conference, held November 13–15, 1958, was somewhat more elaborate
                    than the two previous ones, thanks to a subsidy received from the Ford Foundation.
                    Indiana's legislative sessions are so limited in time—sixty-one
                    days—that modifications of traditional procedures have become increasingly important. The
                    present limitation is more than a century old, having been established in 1851 when Indiana had no
                    town with as many as 10,000 inhabitants and almost no factories. Much extremely useful information
                    is included in the Proceedings of the 1958 conference, but various legislative
                    issues are of necessity either omitted or only slightly considered in such a brief conference.
                    Moreover, at times the opinions of panel members appear to be presented as undisputed facts. For
                    instance, the graphs on pages 54–55 show that persons completing the requirements for an
                    elementary beginning teacher's certificate take 75 per cent of their work in liberal arts
                    and sciences, and that persons receiving a secondary teaching certificate devote 82 per cent of
                    their study to the liberal arts and sciences; this kind of statistical material indicates an
                    extremely elastic concept of liberal arts and sciences!
            
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Favorite Poets. By David J. Harkness and R. Gerald McMurtry. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, 1959. Pp. 101. Bibliography. $3.50.)
            David J. Harkness and R. Gerald McMurtry have written of various poets from whose poetry 
                        Lincoln
                     read. Quotations from Shakespeare, Burns, Byron, Longfellow, Hood, Holmes, Whitman,
                    Bryant, Whittier, and 
                        Lowell
                     indicate something of the range and variety of the poetry which 
                        Lincoln
                     enjoyed. Unfortunately lack of citations for important quotations and facts makes it
                    difficult to evaluate this volume. Moreover, the authors' numerous qualifications in
                    appraising the impact of 
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Favorite Poets on 
                        Lincoln
                     suggests that the influence of poetry on particular persons, like poetry itself, does
                    not lend itself to definite and unquestioned evaluations.
            
               "A" is for Axe—A "First Reader" about
                        some Indian Artifacts. By Glenn A. Black. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1958. Pp. 14. Illustrations. Paperbound, free.)
            Professor Black provides concise and readable descriptions of Indian artifacts such as axes, banner
                    stones, celts, drills, fishhooks, knives, ornaments, and scrapers. He closes his
                    "primer" with a statement about the incompleteness of our knowledge of Indian
                    artifacts. This brief publication of the Indiana Historical Society should be useful to numerous
                    teachers and students in their study of Indian history.
            
               Charcoal Sketches of Old Times in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . By John W. Dawson. Edited by Alene Godfrey. Old Fort News,
                    Volume XXII, No. 1. (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: The 
                        Allen County
                    —
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1959. Pp. 68. Illustrations. Paperbound.)
            In 1838 John W. Dawson arrived at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where he resided during most of the years until his death in 1877. As a lawyer,
                    newspaperman, and politician, he learned much about 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's beginnings and its early history. Several chapters of Charcoal Sketches are
                    devoted principally to a description of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as of 1838. Other chapters include sketches about such persons as Charles W. Ewing,
                    William Wells, Little Turtle, and William Polk. Also included are reminiscences and comments about
                    the seige of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1812, Indians and Indian relations, early social life in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the origins of local place names, etc. Charcoal Sketches is
                    appropriately published by the 
                        Allen County
                    —
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society.
            
               Electric Railways of Indiana, Part II. Central Electric Railfans' Association
                        Bulletin No. 102. (
                        Chicago
                    : Central Electric Railfans' Association, 1959. Pp. 176. Numerous
                    illustrations, maps. Paper-bound, $7.50.)
            This item is Part II in a study of the electric railways of Indiana, "a historical project
                    by members of the Central Electric Railfans' Association, working without salary in the
                    interests of the subject as a hobby."  The previous
                    study centered on the electric lines of southern Indiana; this one is mainly concerned with those of
                    central Indiana. The current volume includes a reprint of an historical sketch of the Union Traction
                    Company of Indiana, originally published in 1945. It also includes numerous pictures of interurbans,
                    reproductions of timetables, and running comment. Obviously not intended as the last word in
                    historical study, nevertheless, Electric Railways of Indiana offers much
                    information and numerous clues useful to historians. From time to time the Central Electric
                    Railfans' Association, P. O. Box 503, 
                        Chicago
                     90, publishes similar items about electric railroads in neighboring states.
            
               Some Aspects of Race Relations at Indiana University, My Alma Mater. By Frank O.
                    Beck. (
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.: [Published by the author], 1959. Pp. 80. Paperbound.)
            This booklet includes historical information and much interpretation about Negroes at Indiana
                    University and in 
                        Bloomington
                    . According to Mr. Beck, the first Negro graduated from Indiana University in 1895, and
                    the first Negro coed in 1919. The period emphasized, however, is approximately that of the last
                    quarter-century. Substantial improvement in opportunities and freedoms for Negroes, both on and off
                    the university campus, generally has characterized these years. The questions of race relations is
                    here viewed as the common concern of all students and all citizens. Moreover, removing
                    "barriers" is regarded as only the first step, for "the Negro must learn
                    that he who demands rights must recognize responsibilities" (p. 64).
            
               Their Exits and Their Entrances: The Story of 
                            Richmond
                         Civic Theatre. By Opal Thornburg. (
                        Richmond
                    , Ind.: Graphic Press, 1959. Pp. xii, 144. Illustrations, appendices. Paperbound.)
            
               Their Exits and Their Entrances is an extremely interesting account of the
                    development of 
                        Richmond
                    's Civic Theatre, which opened in 1941. Miss Opal Thornburg has written with
                    delightful frankness, though without rancor or pettiness, thus adding to the value of this history.
                    The glimpses which she gives of Norbert Silbiger, the theatre's only director to date, are
                    fascinating. Silbiger's childhood love of the theatre in his native 
                        Vienna
                     survived his imprisonment in Siberia by the Russians during World War I and further
                    imprisonment in a Nazi concentration camp in the late 1930's. His professional talents,
                    which he utilized in directing a "Little Theatre" among fellow prisoners of the
                    Russians, have been a basic factor in making possible the significant growth and success of the
                    Civic Theatre of 
                        Richmond
                    . But the contributions of numerous citizens of the 
                        Quaker City
                     have also been of vital importance. Although not written as a
                    "how-to-do-it" manual, Their Exits and Their Entrances has
                    information of much value to persons interested in establishing or strengthening civic theatres.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
