
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 73, Issue 1, pages 1-78. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:73+issue:1+year:1977&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Ninth Federal Census of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : A Case Study in Civic Chauvinism
            
                    Robert G. Barrows
                    ∗
                
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Saturday Evening Mirror was exultant. The "frantic efforts" of
                    the census enumerators in the Hoosier capital had been met with a "noble response"
                    in the house of Dr. William B. Fletcher. A blessed event had just taken place, and, the paper noted,
                    "two fine girls have been placed to the credit of the Doctor on the census rolls."
                    On that same day in March, 1871, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Evening News urged all heads of families who had not personally
                    given the census enumerators the required information to contact the 
                        United States
                     marshal to insure that all members of their household had been recorded. Two days later
                    a third 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper had nothing but praise for one of the assistant marshals. For two weeks this
                    gentleman had "been engaged in ferreting out those who slept in stores and roomed in
                    [business] blocks"; he had succeeded in locating some 775 persons not previously
                        enumerated.1
            
            The interest of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     press in the progress of the census takers was clearly intense during those spring days
                    in 1871, but this was no ordinary census. The editors evinced their concern because a recount of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population was taking place, a second enumeration that would, it was hoped, supersede
                    the first count taken during the summer of 1870. As one newspaper commented, "by this
                    census we must be judged and take our rank among the cities for the next ten years."2 The events surrounding this second 
                  
                     ∗Robert G. Barrows is a graduate student in the Department
                            of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mirror, March 18, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, March 18, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 20, 1871.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 26, 1871.
               
                     enumeration of the ninth federal census of 
                        Indianapolis
                     provide an interesting case study of urban rivalry and civic chauvinism in late
                    nineteenth century America.
            A number of scholars have commented upon the rivalries that existed among 
                        American cities
                     during the nineteenth century. Richard Wade, in his study of Ohio River
                        Valley towns during the early years of the century, noted that "one of the
                    most striking characteristics of this period was the development of an urban imperialism which saw
                    rising young giants seek to spread their power and influence over the entire new
                        country."3 A student of antebellum 
                        Chicago
                     has commented that while that city's "voice was strident, its
                    selfesteem was by no means unique…. Indeed, civic boosterism was the logical ideology of
                    the era's urban imperialism."4
            
            One index of a city's development was population growth. An increase in population was not
                    merely an indication of economic vitality; it also suggested to local boosters that the advantages
                    they claimed for their particular locale were becoming readily apparent to others. In antebellum 
                        Chicago
                     most promotional literature contained tables detailing the city's rapid
                    population growth.5 Release of figures for the ninth census (1870) fueled the
                    rivalry between 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                  
                     3 Richard Wade, The Urban Frontier (
                                Chicago
                            , 1964), 322. Several recent works have explored nineteenth century city
                            promotion and interurban rivalries. See, for example, Carl Abbott, "Civic Pride in 
                                Chicago
                            , 1844-1860," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, LXIII (Winter, 1970), 399-421; Robert D.
                            Parmet, "Competition for the World's Columbian Exposition: The 
                                New York
                             Campaign," ibid., LXV (Winter, 1972), 365-81;
                            Francis L. Lederer II, "Competition for the World's Columbian Exposition:
                            The 
                                Chicago
                             Campaign," ibid., 382-94; Patrick E. McLear,
                            "John Stephen Wright and Urban and Regional Promotion in the Nineteenth
                            Century," ibid., LXVIII (November, 1975), 407-20; J. Christopher
                            Schnell and Katherine B. Clinton, "The New West: Themes in Nineteenth Century Urban
                            Promotion, 1815-1880," Bulletin of the 
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Society, XXX (January, 1974), 75-88; Gregg Lee Carter,
                            "Baseball in 
                                St. Louis
                            , 1867-1875: An Historical Case Study in Civic Pride," ibid., XXXI (July, 1975), 253-63; and Peter C. Stewart, "Railroads and
                            Urban Rivalries in Antebellum Eastern 
                                Virginia
                            ," 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, LXXXI (January, 1973), 3-22.
                            Slightly older works include Wyatt W. Belcher, The Economic Rivalry Between 
                                    St. Louis
                                 and 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1850-1880 (
                                New York
                            , 1947); Leonard P. Curry, Rail Routes South: 
                                    Louisville
                                's Fight for the Southern Market, 1865-1872 (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1969); Charles N. Glaab, 
                        
                                    Kansas City
                                 and the Railroads (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1962); James W. Livingood, The 
                                    Philadelphia
                                -
                                    Baltimore
                                 Trade Rivalry, 1780-1860 (
                                Harrisburg
                            , Pa., 1947); and Harry N. Scheiber, "Urban Rivalry and Internal
                            Improvements in the Old Northwest, 1820-1860," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 History, LXXI (October, 1962), 227-39.
                  
                     4 Abbott, "Civic Pride in 
                                Chicago
                            ," 421.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 409.
               
                    
                    
                        Chicago
                     when it developed that the river city had forged slightly ahead of its competitor on
                    the lake.6 Farther west the situation was much the same. "Local
                    boosters in the rival towns along the Missouri River had always found
                    population growth the most satisfying index of progress."7
            
            Concern with population figures was so prevalent, in fact, that Francis A. Walker, superintendent of
                    the ninth census, was moved to complain: 
                        In the absence of definite information[,] estimates as to the growth of cities and States
                            soon become wild and extravagant. Cities vie with cities, and States with States, in their
                            boasts of population and of wealth, like individuals bidding against each other at an
                            auction, until the most palpable facts in the case are lost sight of, and the extravagances
                            of competitors become a sufficient reason for even more extravagant estimates. Claims that
                            perhaps were first made in a spirit of banter soon are taken as serious, and in the event
                            people become angry to find that not true which was originally asserted only to irritate a
                                rival.8
                  
                    
            
            The residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     were not immune from this type of civic chauvinism. In April, 1870, one of the
                    city's major newspapers opined: "Nothing is more certain than the final blossoming
                    of the whilom Hoosier town into the great central emporium of the West, and the Hub on which will
                    center the trade and traffic between the two great sections." Elsewhere in the same issue
                    the editors prophesied "on substantial grounds, and from plain reasoning, that the
                    population of 
                        Indianapolis
                     will double itself in five years from to-day."9 This was
                    an overly optimistic projection— the city was not to double its population during the
                    entire coming decade—but it suggests the attitude of many 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents as local arrangements were being made for taking the 1870 federal census.
            In 
                        Washington
                     steps had already been initiated for conducting the ninth decennial census. In early
                    February, 1870, Walker accepted appointment as superintendent of the census and G. D. Harrington was
                    named chief clerk of the Census 
                  
                     6 Belcher, The Economic Rivalry Between 
                                    St. Louis
                                 and 
                                    Chicago
                                
                     , 177.
                  
                     7 Glaab, 
                        
                                    Kansas City
                                 and the Railroads, 169.
                  
                     8 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870. Vol. I, The
                                Statistics of the Population of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1872), xx.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1870.
               
                     Office.10
                    
                        United States
                     marshals were charged with the administration of census operations in their respective
                    districts, and, for the District of Indiana, General Benjamin Spooner was the individual entrusted
                    with this responsibility. On May 7, 1870, Spooner received thirteen boxes of census schedules (the
                    printed forms to be filled out by the enumerators as they made their rounds) from the 
                        Washington
                     office, and six days later he assigned five assistant marshals to canvass the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Of the five, two appear to have been reasonably well qualified for their positions:
                    Louis Kern was a clerk in the post office and Richard Smock served as a deputy county clerk. It is
                    not known whether the other three enumerators—Calvin Lindley, William M. Blake, and John
                    C. Slawson—also had previous clerical experience.11
            
            Shortly thereafter the Daily Journal noted: "General Spooner and his
                    assistants are busily engaged in sending out the blanks and portfolios received from the Department
                    at 
                        Washington
                    , to the census-takers. Active operations will commence on the first of
                        June."12 Operations in 
                        Indianapolis
                     did, indeed, begin on June 1. Clearly, however, the enumerators were confronted with a
                    formidable task. Four of the men were responsible for two city wards each—a substantial
                    geographic area. The size of the enumeration districts was reflected in the length of time required
                    for the count to be completed. Lindley, who was assigned the first and second wards, did not
                    complete his canvass until August 24—almost three months after the work had been
                        initiated.13
            
            
               
                  10"Journal of Personnel Actions," February,
                        1870-November, 1872, Records of the Ninth Census, Record Group 29 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        ); File 111, Census Personnel Records of the Appointment Division, Interior
                        Department Archives, Record Group 48 (National Archives).
               
                  11
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 10, 13, 1870. Two of the men originally listed by the Daily Journal were apparently removed before the enumeration began and their
                        places filled by Lindley and Smock. The names of the marshals who actually conducted the canvass
                        are listed on the census schedules; see U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, population schedules for
                                
                     Indianapolis, Marion County
                  , Indiana, National Archives Microfilm Publication
                        No. 593, rolls 338-41. The 
                            Indianapolis city
                         directories for 1870, 1871-1872, and 1872-1873 were consulted in an attempt to
                        secure information regarding the enumerators' occupations.
               
                  12
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 24, 1870.
               
                  13The time required to conduct the enumeration of a given district may be
                        determined since the individual census schedules were dated as they were filled out. No matter
                        what date the schedules were actually completed, the enumeration was supposed to be conducted as
                        of June 1, 1870. For the questions asked on the population schedules of the ninth
            
            
            The enumerators, however, were faced with more serious problems than merely the size of their
                    districts. Shortly after the enumeration had begun, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal commented: 
                        A great deal of difficulty has been experienced by the Assistant Marshals appointed for the
                            purpose of taking the ninth census, owing to the fact that a great part of the population of
                            the different counties are very reticent, and reserve information needed and asked for by
                            the Marshals, under the impression that it will be used for the purpose of making out the
                            tax-list, or for other purposes about which the American citizen is naturally sensitive.14
                  
                     A few weeks later the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Sentinel reported the reply given to Assistant Marshal Slawson when he
                    requested an elderly woman to state her age: "Shure, honey, I don't know how ould
                    I am this minute, at all at all, but I was born about the time of the last big wind in 
                        Ireland
                    , and yees can figure that up for yerself, if ye be a schollard."15 Given the area to be covered by each 
                        Indianapolis
                     enumerator and the intransigence (or illiteracy) of some of the citizens, it is little
                    wonder that Spooner felt constrained to publish a letter requesting that "all persons who
                    have been overlooked will at once advise me of the fact, giving street and number of residence, that
                    I may make the correction before the returns go out of my hands."16
            
            During August, 1870, the newspapers paid little attention to the census taking operations. Early in
                    September, however, they began to report the completed returns as they were submitted for various
                    wards. By the end of the month the final tabulations had been made, and the papers reported that the
                    Hoosier capital had surpassed the forty thousand 
                  census and the instructions given to the assistant marshals, see Carroll D. Wright and
                            William C. Hunt, The History and Growth of the 
                                    United States
                                 Census (U.S. Serial Set No. 3856; 
                                Washington
                            , 1900), 154-59. A reprint edition of this work was published in 1966 by the
                            Johnson Reprint Corporation, 
                                New York
                            , N.Y.
                  
                     14
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 16, 1870.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, July 22, 1870.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., July 15, 1870. The problems that plagued the 
                                Indianapolis
                             census officials, and the resulting inaccuracies, were by no means unique. See,
                            for example, Peter R. Knights, "A Method for Estimating Census
                            Under-Enumeration," Historical Methods Newsletter, III /December,
                            1969), 5-8; Peter R. Knights, "Accuracy of Age Reporting in the Manuscript Federal
                            Censuses of 1850 and 1860," ibid., IV (June, 1971), 79-83; and
                            John B. Sharpless and Ray M. Shortridge, "Biased Under-enumeration in Census
                            Manuscripts: Methodological Implications," Journal of Urban
                            History, I (August, 1975), 409-39.
               
                     mark. This figure reflected a substantial rate of
                    growth—an increase of 119 percent since 186017—but the
                    results were not received with universal approbation. Some felt that the enumeration had been
                    carelessly done and that the final figure should have been much higher. The reaction of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Saturday Evening Mirror, a blend of indignation, sarcasm, and, possibly,
                    exaggeration, merits extensive quotation: 
                        THE SCOURGE OF 1870
                        AWFUL RAVAGES OF THE U.S. CENSUS
                        FRAUD! FRAUD! FRAUD!
                        Gen. Spooner's minions have done their worst, and it will take Indiana fully five
                            years to recover from the effects of their devastations…. Cities that went into
                            our fight thirty thousand strong sneak out with half or less than half that
                            number….
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             bled heavily, but we brought off forty-two thousand of our sixty, which was
                            doing pretty well. And it now appears that if justice had been done in the matter of
                            enumeration, we might have done better. Gen. Spooner means well, but his deputies have been
                            shamefully imposed upon by people who didn't want their neighbors to know how many
                            children they had. Children have been hid away in closets and under the bed at the approach
                            of the census man, and one family of thirteen occupied the cellar of a mansion near the
                            rolling mill two days and nights to escape enumeration. One marshal, too, held singular
                            ideas concerning his duty, and never counted but one twin to a family, no matter how many
                            others there might be. He only counted one John Smith in his district, rejecting the others
                            on the score that he had already got them down. Another adolescent enumerator refused to
                            count sick people unless he knew the doctor in attendance….
                        Although it is not a very suitable time to begin lying about our population, we will venture
                            to say, in view of these facts, that 
                                Indianapolis
                             has suffered overmuch at the hands of Gen. Spooner, and that we have fifty
                            thousand people here, counting twins and John Smiths.18
                  
                    
            
            Following this outburst, however, there was no further reaction—at least not on the
                    surface. No mention of the census or the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population was made in the press from late September, 1870, until January 25, 1871,
                    when the Evening News suddenly announced: "The census of this city 
                  
                     17The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 26, 1870, listed the population figure as 40,606;
                            the Daily Sentinel for the same date gave the figure as 40,696. The
                            discrepancy is probably the result of a typographical error. The larger of the two figures
                            was used in computing the percentage increase over 1860. The 1860 population was 18,611.
                            U.S., Eighth Census, 1860. Vol. I, Population of the 
                                    United States
                                 in 1860 (
                                Washington
                            , 1864), 121.
                  
                     18
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mirror, September 17, 1870.
               
                     is to be retaken." The full story of what transpired
                    during this four month interval that led to a reenumeration of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population is unknown and probably unknowable. But some events that apparently played a
                    part in the desire for a recount can be ascertained.
            To begin with, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population did experience a spurt during these four months. The sudden surge was not
                    the result of a "baby boom" or the arrival of an unusually large number of
                    in-migrants. Rather, it was accomplished by the simple procedure of annexation. The wheels for this
                    had been set in motion even before the census takers had completed their final tallies. On July 25,
                    1870, a special committee mandated "to prepare the proper papers in relation to the
                    annexation of certain contiguous territory north and east of the city" reported to the
                    mayor and the Common Council that the requisite legal notices were ready for signature and
                    subsequent publication. Following these prescribed juridical steps it was "proposed to
                    present to the Board of Commissioners of 
                        Marion County
                    , a petition praying for said annexation."19
            
            Such a petition was duly presented to the county commissioners on September 5, 1870. It was a lengthy
                    document, "describing accurately by metes and bounds the contiguous territory desired to be
                    annexed, and setting forth the reasons for such annexation …."20 Among the reasons cited by the Common Council in support of their petition was the fact
                    that the "tracts of land sought to be annexed are in the midst of thickly populated
                    districts, or those rapidly becoming so …." Besides the advantages that would
                    accrue to the numerous new city residents, the petition noted: "The annexation of the
                    proposed territory … will give to the city an increase of revenue and wealth, enhance the
                    value of property and accelerate the progress of useful industry, enterprise and improvement. And
                    not only this; it will stimulate the growth, enlarge the business and advance the prosperity of our
                    beautiful, healthful and flourishing city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."21
            
            The county commissioners evidently agreed with the council since on September 19 they
                    "ordered that the prayer 
                  
                     19
                            Proceedings of the Common Council of the City of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , for the Fiscal Year Commencing May 7, 1870, to May 15, 1871 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1872), 340.
                  
                     20
                     Ibid., 544-45.
                  
                     21
                     Ibid., 562-63.
               
                     of the petition be granted, and that the lands described therein
                    be annexed to the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."22 Thus, at the very moment that the enumerators were
                    concluding their count of the city's population, that population experienced a substantial
                    accretion. Moreover, it was to be augmented twice more before the year was over as two additional
                    annexations were accomplished by resolutions of the Common Council.23 Civic
                    pride must certainly have been wounded a bit with the realization that the census figures by which
                    the "beautiful, healthful and flourishing city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    " would be known for the next decade were already outdated.
            Annexation of contiguous territory during the fall of 1870 was only one reason why residents of the
                    Hoosier capital believed that the census taken during the summer did not truly reflect the
                    population of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The first enumeration was very carelessly done. The evidence for this conclusion is
                    indirect but, cumulatively, quite convincing. As noted above, one 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper had expressed considerable dissatisfaction with the manner in which the
                    census had been conducted.24 General Spooner himself had admitted that some
                    persons had been overlooked.25 Further, it is known that the manufacturing
                    returns for the city were inaccurate. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal complained that there were "no less than three
                        hundred and fifty manufactoring [sic] establishments which were not
                    mentioned, principally because the information was not easily arrived at."26 The Census Office evidently concurred in that assessment since a reenumeration was ordered
                    for the manufacturing schedules.27 Inasmuch as the same enumerators completed
                    the schedules for both manufactures and population, the accuracy of the latter can certainly be
                    questioned. If the enumerators really did overlook 350 manufacturing establishments, how many
                    individuals must also have escaped their attention?
            As the new year of 1871 approached, therefore, those residents who took pride in the Hoosier capital
                    and wished 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 543-44.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 812-14, 828-29. See also William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the 
                                    Railroad City
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 131. Holloway estimated that two thousand persons were added to the
                            city's population by these various annexations.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mirror, September 17, 1870.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, July 15, 1870.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 26, 1871.
                  
                     27 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870. Vol. III, The Statistics of the Wealth and Industry of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1872), 374, 378.
               
                     to foster and publicize its growth had reason to be distressed.
                    The enumeration of the city's population during the previous summer had apparently been
                    inaccurate. In addition, the number of inhabitants had increased during the intervening months as a
                    result of annexations. The Census Office had just made final payments to the assistant marshals28 and would soon begin a detailed analysis of the population figures
                    preparatory to their eventual publication. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it must have seemed, was destined to be incorrectly listed in the official reports
                    unless measures could be taken quickly.
            Precedents existed for a recount. A federal law passed in 1852 provided for reenumerations in cases
                    where "the census of any district or subdivision in the 
                        United States
                     shall have been improperly taken …,"29 Further,
                    reenumerations of the ninth census in 
                        New York City
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     had already been directed under the provisions of an executive order issued by
                    President Ulysses S. Grant.30 Whether the 
                        Indianapolis city
                     fathers were aware of these facts is not known. But they did know that the
                    manufacturing returns were to be redone under official sanction, and they apparently concluded that
                    it would be possible to reenumerate the population at the same time—if not officially,
                    then at least under their own purview.
            Exactly what happened next is uncertain, but one tantalizing detail does deserve mention. On January
                    10, 1871, Superintendent of the Census Walker received a telegram from Spooner in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Extant records provide no clue regarding the subject of this message. Spooner must
                    have considered the matter to be of unusual importance, however, since no evidence has been found of
                    previous telegraphic communication between him and the Census Office.31 Whatever
                        
                  
                     28 Final payments were made to the five 
                                Indianapolis
                             enumerators on December 19 and 20, 1870. "Record of Final
                            Payments," 1871-1872, Records of the Ninth Census, Record Group 29.
                  
                     29
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large and Treaties of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America, X, 25.
                  
                     30 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, I, xx; "Record
                            of Pay Certificates," 1870, Records of the Ninth Census, Record Group 29.
                  
                     31"Record of Accounts," 1870-1872, 2 vols., Records
                            of the Ninth Census, Record Group 29. These volumes list financial obligations of the Census
                            Office to individuals and business establishments. Included are monthly statements of
                            amounts owed the Western Union Telegraph Company, the dates and costs of the telegrams, and
                            information regarding from whom telegrams were received and to whom they were sent. The
                            communication from Spooner to Walker is noted in volume I, page 188. There is no record of
                            any telegrams being exchanged between 
                                Indianapolis
                             and the Census Office from June, 1870, when the records were begun, and the
                            telegram cited here.
               
                     the subject of this telegram may have been and however it was
                    received at the Census Office, one salient fact remains: a reenumeration of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population, using official census schedules, began just three weeks later.32
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers heralded the event. The Daily Journal reported that
                    Colonel William Wiles, the 
                        United States
                     revenue assessor for the Sixth District of Indiana, had been entrusted with retaking
                    the census. "This work," the paper noted, "is one that every citizen
                    should take an interest in, and we hope that it may be done in a correct manner." The Daily Sentinel agreed, calling on the citizens to "be prepared to receive
                    those deputed to do this work, and to render them prompt and full information."33
            
            A few days later a circular appeared in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers under the heading "The New Census." Distributed by Wiles
                    and directed to the "Citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," the circular read in part: 
                        The manufacturing statistics of our city being evidently incomplete and unsatisfactory in
                            many respects to the Census Bureau, orders have been received for the re-enumeration of the
                            same, and at the request of the honorable the, Common Council [sic] and
                            many prominent citizens of our city, I have undertaken to superintend the work, including the re-enumeration of our inhabitants.,34
                  
                     Wiles proceeded to list the information that he wished manufacturers to have on hand. He
                    also noted: "Many of our citizens are of the opinion that our population is larger than
                    reported, and look for an increase in the re-enumeration. All that I can say upon this subject is,
                    that it will be my purpose to make the work complete in accordance with the law, trusting that the
                    result will prove satisfactory."35
            
            Compared to the first enumeration, the recount was conducted thoroughly and expeditiously. The city
                    was divided into twenty-one enumeration districts (contrasted with five the previous summer), and an
                    assistant marshal was assigned to each. Available evidence suggests that at least two thirds 
                  
                     32 The origin of the census schedules used for the second enumeration
                            is not known. They may have come from the Census Office in 
                                Washington
                            . It seems more likely, however, that Spooner had extras in his possession that
                            had not been used during the summer of 1870.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 26, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, January 26, 1871.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, January 31, 1871. Italics were added by the author.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid.
               
                     of the assistant marshals had previous clerical experience, and
                    this fact may also have helped to facilitate the work.36 The canvass commenced
                    on January 31, and the final district was completed exactly four weeks later. The enumeration of
                    most of the districts was accomplished in fifteen or twenty days—again, a great
                    improvement over the previous summer.
            Once again, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     press monitored the work of the enumerators and encouraged them in their efforts.
                    Noting that the recount conducted in 
                        New York
                     had increased that city's population by only about 2 percent, the Evening News remarked: "If 
                        Indianapolis
                     does not gain more in proportion it will not be worth while to retake the
                        census."37 The same publication reported a few days later that some
                    were finding fault with the enumerators "because they are not thorough enough in their
                    work. There may be no cause for this," the paper admitted, "but while so much
                    depends upon their accuracy, it is not deemed out of place to call their attention to the fact that
                    dissatisfaction exists."38 The Saturday Evening
                    Mirror apparently had no such qualms: "The census takers are indefatigable in the
                    discharge of their duties. We have been harassed by them of late, but it gave us great pleasure to
                    forward their search for information."39
            
            This "search for information" had not been completed for even a day when the papers
                    announced the news: the population of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on reenumeration, was found to be 49,411, an increase of 8,715 (or 21 percent) over
                    the 
                  
                     36 As was done for the first enumeration, population schedules and
                            city directories were consulted to obtain the names of the enumerators and information
                            regarding their occupations. See note 11. Two anomalies in National Archives Microfilm
                                Publication No. 593 must be noted. The 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 population schedules for both enumerations of the ninth census may be found
                                on rolls 338-41 of this publication. Logically, rolls 338-39 should contain the first
                                enumeration and rolls 340-41 the second canvass. Indeed, this is what the National
                                Archives title pages at the beginning of each roll of film indicate. In reality,
                                however, the reverse is true—rolls 338-39 actually contain the second
                                enumeration, rolls 340-41 the first count. The National Archives indicated an intention
                                to correct their master negative (Rose K. Greenburg, acting chief, Publications Sales
                                Branch, National Archives and Records Service, to the author, February 18, 1972), and a
                                telephone call to the Publications Sales Branch in January, 1977, confirmed that the
                                changes have been made. But all copies of these rolls produced prior to February, 1972,
                                were erroneously labeled. In addition, because of an error when the manuscript schedules
                                were originally bound, pages 81-104 of ward nine's first
                                enumeration are to be found between pages 24 and 25 of the second enumeration of ward
                                one (subdivision 2).
                  
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, February 7, 1871.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., February 13, 1871.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mirror, February 25, 1871.
               
                     previous summer.40 This was certainly
                    welcome news, but little time was wasted in pointing out that it could be made even more
                    satisfactory: "Only about four hundred more are required to raise the census of our city to
                    fifty thousand. It is to be hoped, therefore, that all who know themselves or others to have been
                    omitted will make said fact known at the [census] office …. The rolls can only be kept
                    open for a few days. The interest of the city makes this the duty of every citizen."41 One week later the deficit had been reduced to fifty persons. Carped the Evening News: "What a miserable set of counters we must be if we
                    can't gain fifty in counting fifty thousand."42 The other
                    papers joined in the exhortation,43 apparently to good effect; the drive for a
                    more populous 
                        Indianapolis
                     quickly went "over the top" and peaked at 50,203.44
            
            It must be kept in mind, however, that only the recount of manufacturing establishments had been
                    formally ordered; the reenumeration of population was strictly a local, unofficial enterprise
                    conducted under the auspices of the Common Council. All this hard work would be wasted unless the
                    proper authorities could be convinced of the inaccuracy of the 1870 canvass and the propriety of
                    adjusting those figures. In order to achieve this objective the city fathers approached two
                    individuals who they knew had a personal interest in the reputation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and influence in the 
                        Washington
                     bureaucracy—Senator Oliver P. Morton and Representative John Coburn. In
                    addition to being part of the Indiana congressional 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, February 28, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, March 1, 1871.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 9, 1871.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, March 16, 1871.
                  
                     43See the initial paragraph of this paper and the citations provided
                            in note 1.
                  
                     44
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, March 24, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, March 24, 1871; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 25, 1871. Although the ninth census was supposed to
                            be taken as of June 1, 1870, there is evidence to suggest that the second enumeration of 
                                Indianapolis
                             included territory that had been annexed to the city during the fall of 1870.
                            In order to examine this possibility, several individuals who lived on Malott Avenue (a
                            street that lay just outside the preannexation city limits and was absorbed in the fall of
                            1870) were selected from the 1871 
                                Indianapolis city
                             directory. If the second enumeration was, indeed, taken as of June 1, 1870,
                            none of these individuals should have been included since they did not actually reside
                            within the city limits at that time. Several of these persons were, however, found on the
                            schedules of the second enumeration, which suggests that at least some of the annexed
                            territory was canvassed during the February, 1871, recount.
               
                     delegation, both men had close, personal ties to the Hoosier
                        capital.45
            
            As a result of the Common Council's appeal for their intercession, Morton and Coburn wrote a
                    lengthy letter on March 28, 1871. Although addressed to 
                        Columbus
                     Delano, secretary of the Interior Department, the dates on various supplementary papers
                    and endorsements strongly suggest that the letter was transmitted directly to the Census Office for
                    consideration. Morton and Coburn began their appeal by emphasizing their long association with the
                    Hoosier capital and noting that they were "well acquainted with its population [,]
                    resources and general condition." They then stated their case: "we believe that
                    the enumeration of inhabitants made by the officers authorized to take the Ninth Census in that city
                    did not include all the names of persons who were inhabitants on the first of June last, on the
                    contrary that a large number of persons were not reported by such officers and put upon the lists of
                    the Census." After summarizing the actions of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Common Council, which was "so well convinced" of the inaccuracy of
                    the census that they had commissioned a recount by "officers acting under oath with
                    schedules identical in form with those of the 
                        United States
                     Census," Morton and Coburn went on to report the divergent figures between the
                    two enumerations for all nine wards of the city. The recount had produced a total of 48,343 persons
                    "while the report of the Census shows 41669 persons making a difference of 6674 persons not
                    counted." A final paragraph buttressed the city's claim: 
                        We further state that the schedules for the Eighth Ward have been examined by three clerks of
                            skill in whom we have confidence as a test of the probability of these reports thus made.
                            That the names included under the letter B in said schedules were examined in said ward and
                            the heads of 21 families covering 86 persons have been found to be in the 
                        
                           45 Morton had been elected lieutenant governor of Indiana in
                                    1860 and had become governor the following year. He was elected governor in his own
                                    right in 1864 and moved on to the 
                                        United States
                                     Senate in 1867. Coburn was an 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     native, born in the city in 1825. He practiced law in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for many years and held a variety of judicial posts. From March 4,
                                    1867, to March 3, 1875, he represented the congressional district that included the
                                    Hoosier capital. Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                        1774-1971 (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1971), 758, 1446. It is purely surmise, but Spooner may have
                                        personally transmitted the results of the reenumeration to Morton and Coburn. He
                                        was apparently in 
                                            Washington
                                         during late March, 1871. 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Daily Journal, March 31, 1871.
                        
                     
                             list made out under direction of the City and not in the
                            list made out by the officers of the Census. We believe that the same proportion of
                            omissions would be found under other letters taking into account the fact that names are
                            probably most numerous under the letter B.
                     Morton and Coburn concluded by requesting that "the proper officers be directed to
                    make another enumeration of the inhabitants" of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Attached to their letter was a list of the twenty-one "B" heads of
                    families in the eighth ward whose names were purported to have been omitted in the first
                        enumeration.46
            
            Approval of the congressmen's appeal was not automatic. Superintendent of the Census Walker
                    had little sympathy for those who registered complaints against the work of the enumerators.
                    "In the case of ninety-nine out of a hundred individual complaints of persons or families
                    omitted in the enumeration," he was able to say from the perspective of a year's
                    time, "examination of the returns will prove the census right …."47 The simple fact that a city desired reenumeration was not sufficient to
                    secure his approval. Only a few weeks before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     appeal reached his desk, in fact, he had responded to a similar request by the city
                    council of 
                  Wilmington, Delaware
               . Walker's recommendation to the secretary
                    of the Interior Department was curt: "I have reason to believe that the U.S. Census of 
                        Wilmington
                     is substantially thorough and complete, and I think all the better of it for not
                    agreeing with the city census."48 Approval of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     petition, therefore, was not a foregone conclusion.
            Fortunately, the Hoosier capital's appeal was well substantiated. Walker immediately turned
                    the list of twenty-one "B" omissions in the eighth ward over to the chief of the
                    Fourth Population Division requesting verification that the names were, indeed, missing from the
                    1870 schedules. That gentleman responded the next day (March 29): "Of the [twenty-one]
                    names mentioned in said paper only the following 
                  
                     46Oliver P. Morton and John Coburn to 
                                Columbus
                             Delano, March 28, 1871, File No. 186, Incoming Correspondence Pertaining to
                            Census Affairs, Patents and Miscellaneous Division, Interior Department Archives, Record
                            Group 48.
                  
                     47U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, I, xx.
                  
                     48Walker's recommendation is quoted in 
                                Columbus
                             Delano to William Bright, January 4, 1871, General Outgoing Correspondence,
                            vol. VI, pp. 16-17, Patents and Miscellaneous Division, Interior Department Archives, Record
                            Group 48.
               
                     [four] are found, which, while differing to some degree, are
                    supposed to mean the same parties."49 In other words, at
                        least seventeen of the twenty-one omissions claimed by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Common Council were not, in fact, included on the schedules of the first enumeration.
                    This apparently convinced Walker. His March 29 endorsement on the Morton-Coburn letter reads:
                    "Respectfully forwarded. It appears to me that a good case for Reenumeration is made
                        out."50
            
            The next step was up to the officials of the Interior Department, and they acted with dispatch. The
                    following day (March 30) W. F. Otto, the acting secretary, addressed a letter to the superintendent
                    of the census directing that a reenumeration be conducted.51 The good news
                    probably traveled quickly; that same day the chief clerk of the Census Office sent a telegram to
                    Spooner in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , presumably announcing the favorable decision.52
            
            One final detail remains to be considered. The letter directing an official reenumeration was dated
                    March 30,1871. But the manuscript schedules that made their way to the Census Office—and
                    eventually to the National Archives— include those completed in February under the Common
                    Council's auspices. No enumeration was conducted following the formal authorization on
                    March 30. An examination of the last sheet of returns for each of the enumeration districts provides
                    a solution to this puzzle. Two statements are to be found immediately below the last name recorded.
                    The first is a "certification statement" and consists of a formal declaration by
                    each assistant marshal that the foregoing pages "constitute a full and true copy of the
                    census returns" for the district to which he was assigned. This statement was dated either
                    on or within a few days of the completion of the enumeration (i.e., February,
                        1871).53 This is followed by a 
                  
                     49I. M. Grassie [?] to Francis A. Walker, March 29, 1871, attached to
                            the Morton-Coburn letter cited in note 46.
                  
                     50Endorsement attached to the Morton-Coburn letter cited in note 46.
                  
                     51W. F. Otto to Superintendent of the Census, March 30, 1871, General
                            Outgoing Correspondence, vol. VI, p. 141, Patents and Miscellaneous Division, Interior
                            Department Archives, Record Group 48.
                  
                     52"Record of Accounts," 1870-1872, vol. I, p. 239,
                            Records of the Ninth Census, Record Group 29.
                  
                     53U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, population schedules for
                                    
                        Indianapolis, Marion County
                     , Indiana, National Archives Microfilm
                            Publication No. 593, rolls 338-41. The "certification statement" was not
                            dated for four of the twenty-one enumeration districts.
               
                     "verification statement" that reads:
                    "Having carefully verified the above and foregoing census returns, I certify that the same
                    is in all things correct and true." With only two exceptions, these verification statements
                    were dated April 12, 1871.54
            
            When word arrived from 
                        Washington
                     that a reenumeration had been authorized, the assistant marshals—or someone
                    acting for them—apparently made (or pretended to make) spot checks of the returns. They
                    then attested that the enumeration made in February still constituted a "correct and
                    true" picture of the city's population.55 Some refinements
                    obviously were made; the 50,203 persons reported by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers in mid-March and the 48,343 claimed in the Morton-Coburn letter were
                    eventually reduced to the 48,244 recorded in the published volumes of the ninth census.56 What remains clear, however, is that a census recount originally commissioned
                    by the city fathers in February, 1871 (apparently including some territory annexed during the fall
                    of 1870), and subsequently "verified" in April, 1871, became accepted as the
                    official enumeration of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     population at the ninth census—taken, in theory, as of June 1, 1870.
            As suggested at the outset of this paper, civic chauvinism and urban rivalry were strong forces in
                    nineteenth century America. The events surrounding the ninth federal census of 
                        Indianapolis
                     take on more than a simple antiquarian significance when considered within this broader
                    context. The concern evidenced by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     press when the original returns were not as large as anticipated; the bold action taken
                    by the Common Council to remedy the situation; the apparent decision to canvass areas during the
                    reenumeration that technically should have been excluded; and the strong representations made by the
                    city's delegates in Congress—all these things suggest the intensity of emotion
                    that could be generated when a city's reputation was at stake.
            
               
                  54
                  Ibid. One "verification statement"
                        was not dated, and another was dated April 5, 1871.
               
                  55The original signatures on some of the "certification
                        statements" were lined out and replaced by the signature of the same individual who
                        signed the "verification statement." This suggests that the verification may
                        sometimes have been done by individuals other than the original enumerators—or may
                        not actually have been done at all.
               
                  56U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, I, 127.
            
         
         
         
            History as Present Politics: Claude Bowers' The Tragic Era
            
                    David E. Kyvig
                    ∗
                
            "I have written a book which will be the most powerful single factor in bringing the South
                    back into line…," Claude G. Bowers proudly confided to fellow Democrat Jouett
                    Shouse in August, 1929.' Bowers referred to his soon to appear history of Reconstruction,
                        The Tragic Era: The Revolution after 
                            Lincoln
                        
               , completed, in the aftermath of the Alfred E. Smith-Herbert Hoover
                    presidential campaign of 1928. In that election the "Solid South" wavered from its
                    traditional Democratic loyalties for the first time in a half century as seven southern states gave
                    Hoover their electoral votes. Scholars have long suspected that politics motivated Bowers in writing
                        The Tragic Era, but—as is often the case in such
                    situations—they have been unable to document their beliefs. The recently discovered
                    letter to Shouse not only confirms that Bowers intended to warn southerners about the dangers of
                    Republicanism, but it also provides a fascinating picture of the composition and promotion of this
                    important work. This letter offers striking evidence of the easy compatibility of historical
                    scholarship and political persuasion in Bowers' mind. Seldom have the political preferences
                    shaping an historiographically important work been so clearly revealed.
            In September, 1929, Houghton Mifflin published Bowers' vividly written account of the years
                    from Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's death to the election of Rutherford B. Hayes. The Tragic
                    Era became an immediate best seller. The Literary Guild, then 
                  
                     ∗ David E. Kyvig is assistant professor of history,
                            University of Akron, Akron, 
                                Ohio
                            .
                  
                     1 Claude G. Bowers to Jouett Shouse, August 26, 1929, Jouett Shouse
                            Papers (University of 
                                Kentucky
                             Library, 
                                Lexington
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  CLAUDE G. BOWERS
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     headed by Mark 
                        Van
                     Doren, chose it as a regular selection and took over seventy thousand of an announced
                    first printing of one hundred thousand copies. The hardbound edition went through twelve subsequent
                    printings. The book remains in print today, having been brought out in a paperbound edition by its
                    original publisher in 1962 and having gone through several printings since then.2
                    The Tragic Era stands as perhaps the single most widely read history of
                    Reconstruction and therefore a work of considerable influence. When the book first appeared, one
                    academic reviewer somewhat ruefully and probably correctly observed: "it is certain that
                    hundreds of American readers will get their impression of the period from these graphic
                    pages… to one who will derive it from the biographies of the professional doctors of
                        philosophy."3
            
            
               The Tragic Era presented a dramatic picture of post- Civil War American politics:
                    "Never have American public men in responsible positions, directing the destiny of the
                    Nation, been so brutal, hypocritical, and corrupt. The Constitution was treated as a doormat on
                    which politicians and army officers wiped their feet after wading in the muck."4 Bowers argued that the Radical Republicans were relieved by Lincoln's
                    death because they rejected the president's conciliatory principles and regarded him as an
                    obstacle to their plans for dealing with the South. The Radicals, led by Thaddeus Stevens, were
                    eager to punish Confederate leaders and to force the South to pay for the war. They were even more
                    concerned, Bowers asserted, about retaining national political power and hoped that by enfranchising
                    southern blacks while suppressing the white aristocracy they would be able to keep southern state
                    governments and electoral votes in Republican hands. They viciously abused Andrew Johnson, a
                    capable, reasonable, and moderate president with roots in the Democratic party, when he sought to
                    substitute mild treatment for the South.
            According to Bowers, once the Radicals drove Johnson from office and replaced him with Ulysses S.
                    Grant, they 
                  
                     2 Houghton Mifflin Company to David E. Kyvig, May 15, 1969, January
                            21, 1976.
                  
                     3 David S. Muzzey, review of The Tragic Era, Current
                                History, XXXI (November, 1929), 212.
                  
                     4 Claude G. Bowers, The Tragic Era: The Revolution after 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1929), v.
               
                     gained control of the federal government and exploited the
                    southern states politically and economically through blacks and carpetbaggers. A saturnalia of chaos
                    and corruption resulted. In 
                        South Carolina
                    , for example, illiterate black "peanut eaters" dominated the state
                    legislature, engaging in an orgy of drunkenness, graft, and self indulgence at the
                    taxpayer's expense. Carpetbag businessmen looted the old Confederacy through bribery and
                    guile. Bowers concluded that corruption was also the order of the day at the national level: Credit
                    Mobilier, the Whiskey Ring, Jay Gould's attempt to corner the gold market with the
                    unwitting assistance of Grant, and Secretary of War William Belknap's sale of Indian
                    reservation post traderships headed the list of exposed scandals. Increasingly authoritarian
                    measures were required to maintain the Republican hold on the South. As a rising tide of resentment
                    turned southern white voters toward the Democratic party, the Republicans stole the 1876
                    presidential election through corrupt vote counting in 
                  Florida, South Carolina
               , and 
                        Louisiana
                    . Having forged an alliance with industrialists and financiers which would keep the
                    party in power for decades to come, the Republicans could finally, said Bowers, safely relinquish
                    their faltering hold on the South.
            Several themes recur throughout The Tragic Era. Bowers repeatedly defended the
                    rights of states, even recently rebellious ones, to determine their own affairs without excessive
                    interference from a central government. He characterized Johnson and the postwar Democratic party as
                    defenders of Jeffersonian principles of states rights against Republican advocates of central
                    authority. Bowers also frequently condemned the political and social encouragement which blacks
                    received at Republican hands during Reconstruction. Of course the Negro was not ready for the vote,
                    claimed Bowers; only idleness, promiscuity, drunkenness, arrogant assumptions of equality, and
                    manipulation by carpetbaggers followed the political elevation of the freedman. Furthermore, Bowers
                    argued again and again, the Republicans, intent on rewarding the capitalists, continually ignored
                    the needs and difficulties of the common folk, the farmers and workers of both North and South. The
                    book presented, in sum, an unrelieved picture of Republican venality and flawed judgment in terms
                    the white South was certain to recognize.
            
            Bowers' views of Reconstruction was not new. A series of southern novelists, among them
                    Thomas Nelson Page and Thomas Dixon, Jr., had since the 1880s propagated the "Lost
                    Cause" legend, romanticizing the antebellum South and arguing that superior force rather
                    than superior virtue caused its demise. David Wark Griffith's 1915 film, The
                        Birth of a Nation, and the 1907 novel on which it was based, Dixon's The Clansman, spread the view that Radical Republicans had badly mistreated the South
                    during Reconstruction. Of more consequence, The Tragic Era reflected the
                    interpretive viewpoint of 
                        Columbia
                     University historian William A. Dunning and his students. The "Dunning
                    School," in a series of dissertations and monographs which began to appear early in the
                    twentieth century, emphasized the harm done to the South by Radical Reconstruction and challenged
                    earlier pro-Republican histories.5 But the works of Dunning and his followers,
                    although critically well received, appealed primarily to other scholars. Bowers' colorful,
                    fast paced, and dramatic writing style, his apparently thorough research, his ability to draw vivid,
                    detailed portraits of important figures, and his skill at weaving into his story brief quotations
                    from contemporary documents produced a narrative which many found both compelling and convincing.
                        The Tragic Era became a great popular success, reached an audience
                    immeasurably larger than had the Dunning school, and was taken much more seriously than the earlier
                    fictional accounts.
            Reviews generally complimented The Tragic Era when it appeared. In part their
                    comments reflected the era's atmosphere of Social Darwinist intellectual racism, in part an
                    acceptance of the Dunning interpretation, and in part an appreciation of Bowers' research
                    and presentation. The greatest praise appeared, significantly, in general circulation journals.
                    Arthur Krock concluded an enthusiastic review in the 
                  
                            New York
                         Times Book Review by calling The Tragic Era
                    
                  
                     5 Works of Dunning and his students cited in Bowers'
                            bibliography included William A. Dunning, Reconstruction: Political and
                                Economic, 1865-1877 (
                                New York
                            , 1907); Walter Lynwood Fleming, Civil War and Reconstruction in 
                                    Alabama
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1905); James W. Garner, Reconstruction in 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1910); Joseph G. de Roulhac 
                                Hamilton
                            , Reconstruction in 
                                    North Carolina
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1914); Charles W. Ramsdell, Reconstruction in 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1910); Thomas S. Staples, Reconstruction in 
                                    Arkansas
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1923); and C. Mildred Thompson, Reconstruction in 
                                    Georgia
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1915). An interesting assessment of the Dunning school can be found in Philip
                            R. Muller, "Look Back Without Anger: A Reappraisal of William A. Dunning,"
                                Journal of American History, LXI (September, 1974), 325-38.
               
                     an "immensely important contribution to
                        history."6 The Christian Century described the
                    book as "absorbing," a "titantic research work," while the Nation judged: "There is no history of the sordid epoch better worth
                        reading…."7
            
            Professional historians were more critical than non- scholars, but not excessively so. Charles R.
                    Lingley, writing in the American Historical Review, found Bowers' style
                    "a bit too strident" but concluded: "The central contention of Mr. Bowers
                    is that both in purpose and execution the northern Republican conduct of the southern problem was
                    characterized by abysmal ignorance, precipitous stupidity, flagrant partisanship, and sordid greed.
                    With that conclusion, all judicially minded will have to agree."8 The
                    harshest review of the book appeared in the 
                  Mississippi Valley
                        Historical Review where James C. Malin charged Bowers with being too partisan, too one
                    dimensional in his characterizations, and too shallow in his research. Nevertheless Malin concluded:
                    "Even though the presentation does not always give the exact shading and emphasis, or omits
                    vital material at times, it requires a great deal of strong writing to redress the balance in the
                    popular mind, and even in the scholarly mind, saturated as it has been with a half a century of rank
                        prejudice."9 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., would have preferred an
                    account which stressed the "great impersonal tides in human affairs" rather than
                    dramatic episodes and personalities, but he found The Tragic Era generally in tune
                    with other scholarship on the period.10
            
            When The Tragic Era was published, several reviewers noted Bowers'
                    Democratic bias, but none saw this as a reason to reject his version of Reconstruction. A decade
                    later, however, some historians saw only partisanship and no historical merit in the book. Francis
                    B. Simkins, for one, charged: "Less scrupulous writers have so effectively correlated the
                        
                  
                     6 Arthur Krock, "Mr. Bowers Rebuilds the Stormy
                            Reconstruction Period," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Book Review (September 8, 1929), 3, 22.
                  
                     7 Edgar DeWitt Jones, review of The Tragic Era, Christian
                                Century, XLVI (December 4, 1929), 1504; William McDonald, "The Great
                            American Tragedy," Nation, CXXIX (September 18, 1929), 306-307.
                  
                     8 Charles R. Lingley, review of The Tragic Era, American
                                Historical Review, XXXV (January, 1930), 382-83.
                  
                     9 James C. Malin, review of The Tragic Era,
                                    Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XVI (March, 1930),
                            561-64.
                  
                     10 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., "The Tragic Era," New Republic, CX (October 9, 1929), 210-11.
               
                     events of Reconstruction with those of their own times that
                    their books have been best sellers. The outstanding example of this is Claude Bowers' Tragic Era, in which an attack upon the Republican enemies of Alfred E. Smith in
                    1928 is veiled behind attacks upon the Republican leaders of 1868, 1872, and 1876."11 By the time the book was thirty years old, it was being dismissed by Bernard
                    Weisberger as a "zestful work of imagination" and by David Donald as "a
                    luridly colored anti-Republican tract." More recently, Larry Kincaid characterized Bowers
                    as "the best, or worst, example" in the late 1920s of "unabashedly
                    partisan historians" who "reduced the politics of Reconstruction to a personal war
                    between an honest, generous, statesmanlike President and dishonest, hateful, partisan
                        ‘Radicals’…."12
            
            As images of the Radical Republicans have been revised, as Johnson's reputation has
                    declined, and as appreciation of the limited role of blacks as well as the significant involvement
                    of native whites in southern politics during Reconstruction has grown, the stature of The Tragic Era has fallen.13 Nevertheless, Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    , at work on a biography of Bowers, recently argued that the author of The
                        Tragic Era was no blind partisan, but rather a judicious, well read, established historian
                    presenting views developed over a long span of years and widely accepted by contemporaries.14
                    
                  
                     11 Francis B. Simkins, "New Viewpoints of Southern
                            Reconstruction," Journal of Southern History, V (February, 1939),
                            49.
                  
                     12 Bernard Weisberger, "The Dark and Bloody Ground of
                            Reconstruction Historiography," Journal of Southern History, XXV
                            (November, 1959), 428; James G. Randall and David Donald, The Civil War and
                                Reconstruction (2nd ed., 
                                Boston
                            , 1961), 776; Larry Kincaid, "Victims of Circumstance: An
                            Interpretation of Changing Attitudes Toward Republican Policy Makers and
                            Reconstruction," Journal of American History, LVII (June, 1970),
                            55-56.
                  
                     13 Many Reconstruction studies of recent years directly challenge
                            Bowers' views. John Hope Franklin, Reconstruction: After the Civil
                            War (
                                Chicago
                            , 1961), and Kenneth Stampp, The Era of Reconstruction (
                                New York
                            , 1965), treat the freedmen sympathetically while discounting their political
                            power. Eric McKitrick, Andrew Johnson and Reconstruction (
                                Chicago
                            , 1960), and John and LaWanda Cox, Politics, Principles and
                                Prejudice, 1865-1866 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), led a growing attack on Johnson's politics and racial
                            attitudes. William R. Brock, An American Crisis: Congress and Reconstruction,
                                1865-1867 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), argued that Reconstruction did not go far enough in the direction of
                            reform, and Michael Les Benedict, A Compromise of Principle: Congressional
                                Republicans and Reconstruction, 1863-1869 (
                                New York
                            , 1974), concluded that Republican moderates, not the Radicals, controlled the
                            Reconstruction Congress.
                  
                     14 Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , "Before ‘The Tragic Era’: Claude
                            Bowers's Earlier Attitudes Toward Reconstruction," Mid-America, LV (October, 1973), 235-44.
               
                     Thus Bowers is not without his defenders even though in general
                    his reputation as a historian has slipped as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed.
            In order to assess The Tragic Era as well as to understand the varied opinions
                    which have been expressed about the book, it is necessary to know something about its author.15 Bowers was a small, frail appearing, but vigorous man who simultaneously
                    fashioned careers as a journalist, historian, and Democratic politician. He grew up in the
                    "overwhelmingly Democratic" small town of Whitestown and in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , twenty miles distant, during the 1880s and 1890s. As a child he attended Democratic
                    rallies with his father and met state party leaders. He remembered being
                    "thrilled… through and through" in 1896 by the appearance in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of William Jennings Bryan.16 Bowers immersed himself in an
                    investigation of Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     and Thomas Jefferson for the Indiana State High School Oratorical Contest in 1898, and
                    although his prize winning oration was titled "
                        Hamilton
                     the Constructionist," he emerged with life long enthusiasm for Jeffersonian
                    Democracy and the study of history. A year later he was writing articles on the 
                        Hamilton
                    - Jefferson conflict for the national party magazine, The Jeffersonian
                        Democrat, while making a brief, abortive attempt to study law. By 1901 Bowers was writing
                    editorials for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, and in 1903 he became editorial writer for the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Star. At the same time he involved himself in politics, giving speeches in the
                    1900 campaign and running unsuccessfully for Congress in 1904 and 1906. The young journalist caught
                    the eye of 1908 Democratic vice presidential candidate John W. Kern who, when he was elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate from Indiana in 1910, asked Bowers to serve as his secretary. Especially after
                    Kern became Senate majority leader in 1912, Bowers had the opportunity to meet many national figures
                    in the Democratic party.
            
               
                  15 A full biography of Claude Bowers is yet to be published. Unless
                        otherwise noted the information below is taken from his posthumously published memoir, My Life (
                            New York
                        , 1962).
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 7, 43. Additional information on Bowers' early years can be
                        found in Holman 
                            Hamilton
                         and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             in the "Gay Nineties": High School Diaries of Claude G.
                            Bowers (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1964).
            
            
            After Kern's retirement in 1917, Bowers returned to Indiana as editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette. He remained politically active, chairing the platform committee
                    at the 1918 state Democratic convention and delivering the keynote address at the same meeting two
                    years later. During his rise in the ranks of journalism and politics, Bowers kept his historical
                    interests alive. His first book, Irish Orators: A History of 
                            Ireland
                        's Fight for Freedom, appeared in 1916, followed two years later by
                        The Life of John Worth Kern. In 1922 Bowers attracted a wide audience for the
                    first time when he published an admiring study of Andrew Jackson. The Party Battles of
                        the Jackson Period called Bowers to the attention of Frank Cobb, Democratic editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    World. Cobb brought Bowers to 
                        New York
                     in 1923, installing him as an editorial writer on the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening World.
            While at the World, Bowers kept on with his historical research and writing during
                    lunch hours and evenings. In 1925 he published Jefferson and Hamilton. This book
                    cast Jefferson as a masterful leader of men, revolting against an entrenched elite who ignored the
                    rights of states and individuals and initiating the era of popular government. The book summarized
                    Bowers' states rights, libertarian, egalitarian political philosophy. Written in a powerful
                    dramatic style, Jefferson and Hamilton became a best seller and earned its author
                    both scholarly and partisan praise.17
            
            Democrats, still divided by the rural-urban, conservative- progressive intraparty struggles of 1924,
                    could all find something attractive in Bowers' Jefferson. As a result, Bowers found himself
                    repeatedly called upon to address party gatherings to generate harmony and stir enthusiasm. With his
                    background in oratory as well as history, he proved very adept at the task. In January, 1928, when
                    the Democrats' Jackson Day banquet in 
                        Washington
                     threatened to become a verbal battle among various presidential contenders, Bowers was
                    asked to give the principal address. Using the Jefferson and Jackson eras as historical examples, he
                    attacked party factionalism and pointed to past glories of a united Democratic party. The speech was
                    so enthusiastically received that Bowers was soon chosen as the keynote speaker for the 1928
                    Democratic National Convention in 
                        Houston
                    .
            
               
                  17 Merrill D. Peterson, The Jeffersonian Image in the
                            American Mind (
                            New York
                        , 1960), 347-53.
            
            
            Not only was it unusual for a convention keynote speech to be given by a nonofficeholder, but also it
                    was rare for such a speech to attract much attention. Bowers, however, with an eloquent delivery and
                    a message sprinkled with historical references, made a memorable address. He drew a clear
                    distinction between Republicans as Hamiltonian advocates of privilege and Democrats as bearers of a
                    Jefferson- Jackson tradition of concern with common people. The Republicans had abandoned the
                    democratic principles of 
                        Lincoln
                     for the aristocratic beliefs of 
                        Hamilton
                    , he entoned. 
                        You cannot believe with 
                                Lincoln
                             that the principles of Jefferson are "the definitions and the axioms
                            of a free society," and with 
                                Hamilton
                             that they are the definitions of anarchy.
                        You cannot believe with 
                                Lincoln
                             in a government "of the people, by the people and for the
                            people," and with 
                                Hamilton
                             in a government of the wealthy, by the influential and for the powerful.18
                  
                     This forceful, effective speech doubtlessly marked the pinnacle of Bowers' long
                    public career.
            A combination of historical study, dramatic style, and partisan commitment, therefore, brought Bowers
                    to his greatest moment. Richard V. Oulahan of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times wrote that Bowers "invoked the spirit of democracy in a ringing
                    speech which brought a great shouting of approval from delegates, alternates, and the thousands of
                    spectators who crowded the vast space of Sam 
                        Houston
                     Hall."19 The speech was also heard by a national radio
                    audience. That Bowers enjoyed his 
                        Houston
                     triumph, is evident in the better than two full pages of his memoirs which he devoted
                    to recalling the favorable reception of the keynote address.20
            
            After the convention Bowers clearly felt a personal stake in the election of 1928, both because he
                    knew and admired the Democratic nominee, Alfred E. Smith, and because of his much publicized keynote
                    speech in which he had "sharply drawn [the line] between the two schools of political
                    thought to permit the electorate to know what fundamental principles were involved."21 The results of the balloting deeply disappointed Bowers. He attributed the
                    heavy Democratic defeat 
                  
                     18
                            Official Report of the Proceedings of the Democratic National Convention,
                            1928 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1928), 10.
                  
                     19
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 27, 1928, p. 1.
                  
                     20 Bowers, My Life, 196-99.
                  
                     21
                     Ibid., 195.
               
                     to intolerance toward Smith's Catholicism and felt that
                    religious bigotry had caused many Americans to overlook the substantive issues dividing the parties.
                    The South's abandonment of the Democratic party for the first time since the Civil War did
                    not escape Bowers' notice. The experiences of 1928 were very much on Bowers' mind
                    as he turned once again to historical writing.22
            
            Ever since finishing Jefferson and Hamilton Bowers had been collecting material for
                    a book on Reconstruction. Early in 1929 he began to write The Tragic Era. By the
                    summer it was completed.23 In August, shortly before the book was to appear, he
                    wrote to his friend Jouett Shouse, a former 
                        United States
                     congressman and lawyer from 
                        Kansas
                     who had been put in charge of the day to day operations of the Democratic National
                    Committee by party chairman John J. Raskob. The letter explained how and why Bowers had prepared
                    what was to be his most important book.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 26, 192924
                           
                                
                        Dear Shouse:—
                        I am amazed at the idiotic letter of Landon Bell,25 all the more
                                    so because he has been in correspondence with me in a most friendly manner, and his
                                    "fears" are based on no information whatever.
                        As a matter of fact I have written a book which will be the most powerful single
                                    factor in bringing the South back into line, and I have been so intimately in touch
                                    with Southern leaders that every great newspaper in the South is arranging for both
                                    elaborate reviews and editorials upon it. It is the true story of the manner in
                                    which the Jeffersonian Republic was overthrown through military force in the South
                                    during the years 1865 and 1877, and the story of this period during which the
                                    Republican party solidified its power by bayonets, and corruption is the most
                                    tremendous indictment of that party ever penned in history. Advance copies for
                                    review have gone out and from John Stewart Bryan of the 
                                        Richmond
                                     News-Observer I have it that he intends to use the book effectively in
                                    the coming contest in 
                                        Virginia
                                    . He is extravagantly enthusiastic about it. From some historians such
                                    as Prof. W. E. Dodd of 
                              
                                 22
                                            Ibid., 199-204.
                              
                                 23
                                            Ibid., 208.
                              
                                 24 The punctuation, capitalization, spelling, and
                                            spacing of the original typewritten letter have been retained as nearly as
                                            possible in this reproduction. Errors which were obviously typographical
                                            have been corrected. A few written corrections, presumably in
                                            Bowers' handwriting, have been included. In a few instances
                                            information or punctuation has been added in brackets to clarify
                                            Bowers' meaning. The letter is located in the Jouett Shouse Papers
                                            (University of 
                                                Kentucky
                                             Library, 
                                                Lexington
                                            ).
                              
                                 25 Landon Bell was a 
                                                Virginia
                                             born and educated lawyer, a lumber and coal company executive,
                                            and an organizer of the Hardwood Manufacturers Association and Southern Coal
                                            Producers Association. 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            Times, August 11, 1960, p. 25.
                           
                                     the University of 
                                        Chicago
                                     I have it that "it is the most absorbing story I have ever
                                    read" and he is reviewing it for the- 
                                        New York
                                     Tribune. Col. E. M. House26 has prepared a
                                    statement for publication to the effect that I tell the truth about the persecution
                                    of the South by the carpetbaggers backed by bayonets for the first time and do it
                                    "brilliantly".
                        If I do not have the appreciation of the Democratic Party for this work on which I
                                    near broke myself down by day and night labor for five years I have written my last
                                    line in an attempt to serve it.
                        House says in a personal letter to me: "You will have the grateful
                                    appreciation of the Southern people", and I think I shall.
                        I had access to the unpublished, hitherto concealed Diary of George W. Julian,27 Radical member of Congress and a leader[,] which has the most
                                    damning disclosures concerning the actions of party caucuses, showing the low
                                    motives that dominated. Of course as I show, and is generally known by all
                                    intelligent people, Lincoln was on the verge of a deadly feud with the Radicals of
                                    his own party at the time of his death. I have the proof in the notations of the
                                    diary on the day of his [
                                        Lincoln
                                    's] death[.] He died at 7:30 in the morning. At 2 P.M. there
                                    was a party caucus. I quote a few lines:
                        "I liked the radical tone of the caucus. But in all my experience in 
                                        Washington
                                     I never heard so much profanity and obscenity. It was intolerably
                                    disgusting. Every one was bitterly criticising 
                                        Lincoln
                                     for his policy of conciliation and his contemptable cowardice, and the
                                    universal expression of all the leaders was that HIS DEATH IS A GODSEND TO OUR
                                    CAUSE". I give this; also the story of the conference of leaders the next
                                    day "to select a new cabinet for Johnson to get rid of the last vestige of
                                    Lincolnism". This from the diary of a man who was in the conference. Also
                                    the fact that this conference had the effrontry to decide on Ben 
                                        Butler
                                     for Secretary of State.28 Also the conference with 
                                        Butler
                                     three days after Lincolns death when Butler said that "Johnson
                                    must not administer on the estate of 
                                        Lincoln
                                    ".
                        
                           
                              26 "Colonel" Edward M. House (the title
                                        was honorary, bestowed by a 
                                            Texas
                                         governor whose campaign House managed) was Woodrow
                                        Wilson's closest presidential advisor, his personal emissary to foreign
                                        governments on several occasions, and an influential, behind the scenes figure
                                        in Democratic politics from 1912 to 1932. Dictionary of American
                                            Biography, XI, Supplement 2, pp. 319-21.
                           
                              27 George W. Julian was an Indiana abolitionist, a
                                        congressman (Free Soil party, 1849-1851; Republican, 1861-1871), and a leading
                                        Radical who served as a member of the Committee on the Conduct of the War and as
                                        one of seven House managers for the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson. He came
                                        to oppose the Republican leadership during the first Grant administration,
                                        presided at the 1872 Liberal Republican convention, and by 1876 had joined the
                                        Democratic party. As a youth in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         Bowers got to know the elderly Julian before the former
                                        congressman's death in 1899. Julian's daughter allowed Bowers
                                        to use her father's detailed and frank diary. Ibid.,
                                        V, 245-46.
                           
                              28 Benjamin F. Butler of 
                                            Massachusetts
                                         was an antebellum Democrat, a flamboyant Union general, and, from
                                        his election in 1866 to his defeat in 1874, one of the most prominent and
                                        extreme Radical Republican congressmen. Ibid., II,
                                    357-59.
                        
                        
                        All this comes in the first few pages, as the book begins with the death of 
                                        Lincoln
                                     and he plays no part in it.
                        There are a few fools in the South, Josephus Daniels29 has often
                                    told me about them, who want us to attack 
                                        Lincoln
                                    . It is assanine. It is a little element that represents not 2 per cent
                                    of Southern opinion. This man Bell is from the South and is one of the worst of
                                    them. Some of these fools actually wanted me to make a hot defence of Jefferson
                                    Davis in the book. Of course it would have no place in "a book of this sort
                                    in the first place.
                        I am glad you make it clear to Bell that you were sending me his letter[.] It will
                                    make him squirm. Of course I shall not mention it to him at all.
                        Just today I have a clipping from the Jackson (
                                        Mississippi
                                    ) paper saying the greatest service I have ever rendered is in this
                                    book. The Republican papers will be hostile if they dare, though the Tribune here [
                                        New York
                                    ] will have a wholly favorable review. [Franklin D.] Roosevelt has just
                                    read it, written me that he was "thrilled by it" and he is
                                    preparing a statement for the publishers.30
                        
                        Since the Literary Guild has taken 70,000 copies for its members31 and the first printing is 100,000 copies it will have a great circulation
                                    and will do infinite good. It will be dynamite to Hoovers flirtation with the South.
                                    I hope you people at headquarter will see the wealth of amunition at a glance. It
                                    comes out September 6th.
                        
                                    Thanks for sending the letter
                                    Regards,
                                    Sincerely,
                                    Claude G. Bowers [signed]
                                
                         Hon. Jouett Shouse Democratic National Committee
                                    
                                        Washington
                                    , D.C.  If you hear any more such stuff tell the writer I write
                                    history from the records and that any one who undertakes to tell me how to do it may
                                    go to hell in an elevator. 
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  29 Josephus Daniels was editor of the Raleigh, 
                            North Carolina
                        , News and Observer and served as secretary of the navy under
                        Woodrow Wilson from 1913 to 1921. Ibid., [XIII], Supplement 4, pp. 215-18.
               
                  30 According to Merrill D. Peterson, The Jeffersonian
                        Image, 351-52, Franklin D. Roosevelt never reviewed another book but at Bowers'
                        request reviewed Jefferson and Hamilton for the 
                            New York
                        
                        Evening World. FDR, his esteem for Jeffersonian principles enhanced, praised
                        the book. Bowers reported in his memoirs that after The Tragic Era appeared,
                        FDR wrote to him from Warm Springs, 
                            Georgia
                        , to say that the book "had a very definite influence" on southern
                        thought. Bowers, My Life, 210.
               
                  31 According to Bowers, Mark 
                            Van
                         Doren took The Tragic Era for the Literary Guild without having
                        seen the manuscript. Bowers, My Life, 152.
            
            
            As Bowers had hoped, The Tragic Era was appreciated by Democrats. One measure of
                    the party's esteem for the author appeared in 1932. Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt of 
                        New York
                    , the leading Democratic presidental contender, and his advisors settled on Bowers as
                    the best person to nominate FDR at the convention. Roosevelt extended the invitation to Bowers
                    during a private meeting in 
                        Albany
                    . Bowers felt obliged to consult William Randolph Hearst for whose 
                        New York
                    
                    Journal he worked after the collapse of the World in 1931.
                    Hearst, a conservative, isolationist Democrat who backed John Nance Garner for the nomination,
                    indicated his opposition, probably recalling Bowers' ability to stir a convention audience.
                    A bitterly disappointed Bowers declined FDR's offer.32
            
            Roosevelt continued to hold Bowers in high regard and appointed him ambassador to 
                        Spain
                     in 1933. Bowers remained at the sensitive Madrid post for six years and then served as
                    ambassador to 
                        Chile
                     until his retirement in 1953. This partisan recognition as well as the relatively light
                    duties of the embassy assured that Bowers had not "written my last line in an attempt to
                    serve… [the Democratic party]." Two more laudatory volumes on Jefferson were
                    written during Bowers' foreign assignments.33 Although many considered
                    a 1932 biography of Indiana Senator Albert J. Beveridge to be Bowers' finest work, none of
                    his efforts after 1929 had the impact of The Tragic Era.34
            
            In his letter to Shouse, Bowers acknowledged the partisan purpose of The Tragic Era
                    but insisted that the work was a solid, well documented history. Those who disagreed could
                    "go to hell in an elevator." Bowers obviously saw no difference between a
                    Democratic perspective and objective reality. To his way of thinking, pointing out Republican sins
                    to the South was both good politics and good history. It certainly 
                  
                     32 Frank Freidel, Franklin D. Roosevelt: The Triumph (
                                Boston
                            , 1956), 293; Bowers, My Life, 239-42.
                  
                     33 Claude G. Bowers, Jefferson in Power (
                                Boston
                            , 1936); and Claude G. Bowers, The Young Jefferson, 174-3-1789 (
                                Boston
                            , 1945).
                  
                     34 In addition to Beveridge and the Progressive Era (
                                Boston
                            , 1932) and the Jefferson volumes, Bowers published after 1929 The
                                Spanish Adventures of 
                                    Washington
                                 Irving (
                                Boston
                            , 1940); Pierre Vergniaud: Voice of the French Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 1950); Making Democracy a Reality: Jefferson, Jackson, and
                            Polk (
                                Memphis
                            , 1954); My Mission to 
                                    Spain
                                : Watching the Rehearsal for World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1954); 
                        
                                    Chile
                                 through Embassy Windows, 1929-1953 (
                                New York
                            , 1958); and his memoirs.
               
                     was good politics, for the South returned to the Democratic fold
                    after the 1928 defection and remained an essential factor in party presidential victories from 1932
                    through 1964. There is no way of knowing whether The Tragic Era directly
                    influenced votes, but its arguments were woven into the rhetoric and rationale of southern
                    Democracy. The book, however, failed the test of time for good history. Subsequent scholarship has
                    demonstrated many serious inadequacies in its conclusions.
            Both its political and historical dimensions must finally be taken into account in assessing The Tragic Era. The book was, after all, not out of step with the scholarly
                    accounts of the time which dealt with Reconstruction. Furthermore, it brought to light significant
                    material, the Julian diary in particular, which tended to reinforce such interpretations. The
                    book's greatest departure from the Dunning school was its lively, dramatic style which
                    together with its successful marketing produced its great impact. At the same time The
                        Tragic Era stands revealed as a book with a clear partisan intent, one which brought
                    appropriate political rewards to its author. Bowers, as he examined primary and secondary material
                    on Reconstruction and then wrote his account, constantly chose to cast Republican behavior in the
                    worst possible light. Scholars certainly cannot block others from writing
                    "history," but they should consider the implications of leaving the writing of
                    exciting, readable, popular accounts to those with special interests to plead or of allowing biased
                    interpretations to stand unchallenged once they appear. In the hands of as talented an author as
                    Claude G. Bowers, such opportunities can register a deep and seriously distorted impression of the
                    past on the public mind.
         
         
         
            Locke, Indiana: The Making of a Ghost Village
            
                    James Lamar Weygand
                    ∗
                
            In the golden age of the railroad builders during the last half of the nineteenth century, what
                    happened to a village when the railroad passed it by? Exactly that predicament faced Locke Town,
                    Indiana, in 1872–1873.1 The only village in Locke Township, 
                        Elkhart County
                    , Locke had been platted about 1867. In six years it had grown to nearly two hundred
                    people. According to one source there were "three dry goods stores, one drug store, one
                    grocery store, one hardware store, one tin shop, one furniture store, two shoe shops, two sawmills,
                    one shingle-mill, one wagon-making shop, one steam grist and flouring mill, three blacksmith shops,
                    about forty dwellings, one hotel, one public school-house, one church (United Brethren), three
                        physicians."2 It was a pleasant, prosperous village with no place
                    to go but forward. Alarming news, however, came in 1872–1873. In laying out its route to 
                        Chicago
                     the 
                  Baltimore, Pittsburgh
                and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad, which later became the B&O, had bypassed Locke.3
                    Unless one flew like the crow, Locke would be no nearer the new rail line than two and one half
                    miles. By the end of August, 
                  
                     ∗ James Lamar Weygand is a retired letterpress printer who
                            resides in Nappanee, Indiana. He is the author of several books on paper- making, printing,
                            and private presses in America.
                  
                     1 The village was often called Locke Town, or Locketown, to
                            distinguish it from Locke Township.
                  
                     2 Higgins, Belden & Co., pubs., An Illustrated
                                Historical Atlas of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1874), 101; Anthony Deahl, A Twentieth Century History and
                                Biographical Record of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1905), 124.
                  
                     3 For the proposed route of the B&O through 
                                Elkhart County
                             see Higgins, Belden & Co., Illustrated Historical
                            Atlas, 101; see also Edward Hungerford, The Story of the 
                                    Baltimore
                                 and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Railroad, 1827–1897 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), II, 108; and Extracts From Diary Kept by Levi P. Ulery,
                                Beginning January 1, 1865, October 24, 1872, September 11, 1873 (Nappanee Public
                            Library Historical Room, Nappanee, Indiana).
               
                     1874, the work engine on the B&O had reached 
                        Bremen
                     on the west, six miles away, and 
                        Milford
                     crossing on the east, eight miles away. The road was rapidly nearing completion.4
            
            There was an air of expectancy and uneasiness about Locke. Businessmen—for the most part
                    young and energetic —recognized that access to the B&O was necessary if the town
                    were to remain a viable entity. The merchants had goods to bring in; the producers had products to
                    ship out. Their solution was to build a station—Locke Station, as it were—at
                    the railroad's nearest access point. From Locke it was one half mile east to the
                    Locke-Union Township road which led, chuck- hole by chuckhole, two miles south to an intersecting
                    east-west road, which was less than two blocks from the railroad right of way. Existing roads, such
                    as they were, thus brought the town within several hundred feet of the action. At that point the
                    Locke businessmen would build their station and set up a hack or carryall to transfer passengers and
                    freight to their town.5
            
            Agreement was quickly reached with the B&O. Locke would donate five acres on which the
                    railroad could construct necessary buildings, and the town would grade the side tracks without
                    charge. In return the railroad contracted to build a side track station and passenger house to be
                    called Locke Station.6 Problems soon developed, however. The town could not
                    fulfill all its part of the bargain. The five acres were not to be had. The owners, Daniel Metzler
                    and John Culp, Jr., through whose farms the railroad ran, did not make the land
                    available—not at least for the purpose Locke had in mind. Under circumstances that remain
                    cloudy and mysterious, Locke (rather than the railroad) did put up a private
                    passenger house or depot on railroad property or right of way. The new depot became Locke (Station)
                    on the B&O time cards.7 At five o'clock on December 6, 1874,
                    the new station's schedule went into effect. One train from each direction stopped daily,
                    and passengers and freight were transferred by hack to Locke.8
            
            
               
                  4
                        
                            Goshen
                        
                        Times, August 27, 1874.
               
                  5
                        
                            Wakarusa
                        
                        Sun, November 12, 19, 1874.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., November 12, 1874.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., December 10, 1874.
               
                  8
                        
                            Goshen
                        
                        Times, December 10, 1874. Hungerford, The Story of the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Railroad, II, 107–109, states that operations on the division
                        commenced November 23. This may, of course, have referred to through trains or work trains or
                        both.
            
            
            Although on the surface it seemed that things had not worked out so badly after all, any euphoria was
                    short lived. If trouble had not been suspected or known earlier, it was by the middle of December,
                    1874: Metzler and Culp, joined by Henry Stahly who owned land north of them, had platted and
                    surveyed their own village, Nappanee, around Locke's station.9 Worse
                    still, Metzler and Culp had donated two and three acres respectively to the railroad for one dollar
                    each for "the location of a station."10 As matters stood by
                    1875, then, Locke had its depot—now almost surrounded by a new village
                    plat—its own man in charge of the depot, its Locke Station on the B&O time cards,
                    its daily hack service, and a passel of big problems. The rest of the story concerns
                    Locke's attempts to remain a viable village and Nappanee's endeavors to become
                    one.
            Much of the abundance of infighting that followed the completion of the railroad was reported in the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Times, the 
                        Wakarusa
                    
                    Sun, or, indeed, any other journal that would accept correspondence from the
                    citizens of Locke or Nappanee. Nappanee residents claimed in the pages of the newspapers that from
                    the beginning certain parties in Locke "played the wolf in sheeps clothing":
                    "in the guise of friendship for the new village they [Locke residents] had misrepresented
                    the town" and "had done their very best to put every obstacle in the way of the
                    Nappaneese." Nappanee partisans also occasionally enumerated persons in Locke who had been
                    "friends from the start."11 Whether there was substance to any
                    of these claims is not known since specific evidence was not cited. There is a possibility that some
                    Locke parties, in their zeal to keep their own village alive, planned to purchase lots in Nappanee
                    but never to build on them. Such action would, of course, have been disruptive and delayed
                    development in the new town. But this is supposition based upon general claims plus certain
                    "conditions" attached to a number of early lot sales in Nappanee: "Five
                    or six other Locke 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Elkhart County
                             Deed Record Book, XLVIII, 280 (Recorder's Office, 
                                Elkhart County
                             Courthouse, 
                        Goshen, Indiana
                     ). The origin of the name Nappanee is a long
                            and interesting story in itself. The village is generally believed to have been named for
                            Napanee (one "p"), 
                                Ontario
                            , from which some of the pioneers of this area came. See James L. Weygand and
                            Esther Hoover, They Called it Nappanee (Nappanee, 1974), 20–21.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Elkhart County
                             Deed Record Book, XLVIII, 346–47.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Wakarusa
                            
                            Sun, February 26, March 18, 1875; 
                                Goshen
                            
                            Times, March 18, May 6, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  B&O TIME CARD LISTING LOCKE RATHER THAN NAPPANEE, MAY 13, 1875
                  Reproduced from 
                                Goshen
                            
                            Times, May 13, 1875.
               
                     men have bought lots, on condition of their putting up
                    buildings, next summer …,"12 There were also claims in
                    Nappanee that Locke citizens, by word of mouth and by letters purporting to come from Nappanee, had
                    spread "false and malicious information" about the new town. Again, however, the
                    specifics were not outlined. Locke partisans probably made similar statements about their neighbors
                    in Nappanee, but their correspondence with the newspapers is considerably less in quantity so fewer
                    such claims have been found.13
            
            In the competition between the two towns Locke had got off to a fast start. In the early newspaper
                    debates Locke's correspondent, OCCASIONAL, naturally stressed the town's depot,
                    owned and operated by the Eby brothers of Locke with Henry Eby as station agent; its daily hack;
                    and, most important of all, its station. He also pointed out that business was
                    "flourishing" in the town, and he tossed in a tongue in cheek query. Where was
                    that magnificent place called Nappanee anyway? He had checked his atlas but could find no such town
                    in it. He closed, though, by saying he "hoped to get a situation there."14
            
            Meanwhile, Nappanee had also taken to the newspapers. On December 17, 1874, less than a week after
                    the village had been platted and surveyed, the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Times printed the first of Nappanee's blurbs: "NAPPANEE
                    … Is the name of a town laid out in 
                        Elkhart County
                    , Ind. on the B.P.& C. Railroad eight miles west of 
                        Milford
                    , where a general station is located. Persons desiring to locate in business would do
                    well to call there and get the advantage of inducements held out. Inquire of D. Metzler and Jno.
                    Culp, Jr., Locke, Indiana."15 Shortly thereafter in correspondence also
                    published in the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Times a writer signing himself NAPPANEE covered much the same ground. He also
                    commented on OCCASIONAL's problems in finding Nappanee: 
                        … OCCASIONAL says that he consulted the County Atlas of Messrs. Higgins, Belden
                            & Co. but that it [Nappanee] could not be found. He cannot surely pretend to be
                            ignorant that Nappanee was never thought of until two or three years after the collection of
                            the 
                        
                           12
                           
                                        Wakarusa
                                    
                                    Sun, March 4, 1875.
                        
                           13
                                    Ibid., February 26, March 18, 1875; 
                                        Goshen
                                    
                                    Times, March 18, May 6, 1875.
                        
                           14
                                    
                                        Goshen
                                    
                                    Times, January 21, 1875.
                        
                           15
                                    Ibid., December 17, 1874.
                     
                             manuscript for the publication of the County
                            Atlas—and therefore that he might as well looked in Webster's
                            Dictionary.
                        The station that he speaks of as our station on the B., P.& C.R.R. is just 21/2 miles
                            from Locke, at Nappanee, and the only railroad that the people of Locketown have got is a
                            two-horse railroad between Nappanee and Locketown.
                        As to his "being in hopes of getting a situation there" the citizens of
                            Nappanee no doubt feel highly flattered by his condescension, and Nappanee would probably
                            rise at least one hundred percent in value on his advent.
                        But, what would Locketown do?16
                  
                    
            
            The exact nature of the "inducements" which Nappanee was purportedly offering to
                    businessmen was not explained in the newspapers, but with Nappanee offering such incentives could
                    Locke do less? One prominent Locke businessman offered "up to $250" to
                    a "bending factory" to locate in his town rather than in Nappanee. His attempt at
                    persuasion, however, was unsuccessful since shipping facilities were obviously superior in
                        Nappanee.17 Residents of Locke also planned improvements within the town.
                    The streets were to be widened and were to be lighted by a system of gas lamps, presumably one at
                    each corner. Since the plan never got beyond installing a single gas lamp, it became a running joke
                    with NAPPANEE at the expense of OCCASIONAL and Locke: "the latest move … [is] to
                    embellish the classical shades of Locke with street lamps, the gentleman who originated the idea
                    munificently heading the subscription with $1.00. Truly such generous conduct ought to be
                    remembered, and coming generations may well exclaim as they gaze with awe on such improvements,
                    ‘He was the father of Locke!’ "18
            
            In correspondence to the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Times NAPPANEE reported, too, on momentous happenings in the new village: 
                        Two stores have been opened here, one by Henry F. Eby, and the other by Jas. Lake, both from
                            Locke town, and the prospects are that there will be more in a week…. There has
                            been about 25 or 30 car loads of lumber and general freight shipped, mostly eastward
                            bound…. Messrs. Peddycord, Truex & Hartman, of Locke, and Metzler of this
                            place, intend putting up a store block having 88 feet frontage, and 50 feet in
                            depth…. Two of our neighbors … were around among their friends
                            collecting subscriptions for a United Brethren church, and 
                        
                           16
                                    Ibid., January 21, 1875.
                        
                           17
                                    
                                        Wakarusa
                                    
                                    Sun, March 4, 1875.
                        
                           18
                                    Ibid.
                     
                             we believe they have already succeeded in raising
                            several hundred dollars …
                    
            
            The correspondent from Nappanee closed with some choice barbs for OCCASIONAL: 
                        We would like to know what has become of "Occasional," we sincerely hope he
                            has not overtaxed himself in his endeavors to find Nappanee, and made himself sick. He was
                            seen in a cutter, recently, furiously driving northward from here, his hat pulled down
                            o'er his brow and he looked neither to the right or left but straight ahead, and by
                            the determined glare in his eyes it could plainly be seen that he meant to find Nappanee or
                            die in the attempt. Whenever he arrives the citizens of good Nappanee intend treating him to
                            a grand oyster supper and firing off anvils, and the day will be observed as a general
                            holiday. We hope he will be around before all the lots are sold.
                        The lines below were found, written on a dry goods box by some enterprising youth, and will
                            not be out of place:
                        Oh Sister Locke do not be cross
                        Though 'tis unto you a heavy loss,
                        Because ere long you may able be
                        To move the remainder to Nappanee.19
                  
                    
            
            Without even allowing OCCASIONAL a reply NAPPANEE picked up the following week where he had left off:
                        
                        Please step behind this stump, Mr. Editor, and I will tell you something, —but we
                            must talk very low, as those Locke fellows are running back and forth all of the time and
                            might overhear us: Locke is in our way, and we want to hide it as much as possible; and if
                            we can only make a few capitalists think we are all right, and persuade them to come here,
                            don't you see, we are all sound. To be plain, I have a few lots to sell; lots that
                            a few years ago were covered with the mightiest oaks and elms—you can see the
                            stumps now—and if I can only sell these lots at about four times their value, it
                            will let me out of the woods—that is, I could afford to go out into the open
                            country and buy a nice farm. All we want is men and money, and if all goes well I think we
                            can get both.20
                  
                    
            
            OCCASIONAL presumably had had enough; no further correspondence from him was found. TRUMP, JR.,
                    however, took up the cudgels in Locke's behalf. What was apparently his first epistle in
                    the newspaper wandered off in several directions but began by emphasizing Locke's continued
                    prosperity in adversity: "The storekeepers are doing a lively winter's work. They
                    have carried on a larger trade, by one- half during the 12 months just past than at any other period
                    in our history, notwithstanding the almost universal prostration 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Times, March 4, 1875.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., March 11, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Higgins, Belden & Co., pubs., An
                                Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1874), 100. ft
               
                     of business, showing that our patronage is increasing. [George]
                    Eby's and Hartman's boys know how to make trade lively, and how to use their
                    customers." He added a bit of sarcasm of his own: "Was over south last week past
                    Metzler's corners. Jim Lake and Hank [Henry] Eby [the station agent] are stopping at the
                    corners running peanut stands…. The boys are old friends and fellow-townsmen of ours
                    …."" TRUMP, JR., concluded with an inventory of
                    Locke's contributions to Nappanee's success and an appeal for a few kind words in
                    return: 
                        NAPPANEE is rather severe on us after all our efforts to help him build a town. Two of our
                            merchants are already there with a fine stack of peanuts and bologna. Locke put up the
                            depot, graded the side tracks, runs a hack for the accommodation of those who may stop at
                            the station, yet he prophesies our utter annihilation. Makes sport of our best efforts to
                            evert [sic] destruction; even denying us the poor privilege of street lamp … by
                            the light of which we, the survivors of Locke's desolation, can gaze with bowed
                            heads and aching hearts upon our "broken idols." Oh, charity, charity!
                            have you departed from human breasts, that brethren should be treated thus? Nappanee, shake.
                            We are your father.22
                  
                    
            
            Within the week NAPPANEE replied: 
                        A terrible tornado passed over this place … First comes our friend TRUMP, JR. who
                            accuses us of the blackest ingratitude in our conduct towards the Lockites, who have made us
                            what we are, and on whom we depend for our future support. … Oh Locke! Locke! Who
                            can read such a touching account of your calamities without moistened eyes? We can not. But
                            forgive us when we politely inform you that you were never asked to build the depot as the
                            railroad company were under bonds to do that, and it was done thru purely interested
                            motives; that Locke did not grade the sidetrack, and that the Locke Horse Car Co. is only
                            for the benefit of Locke….
                        We congratulate you upon the accession of that refulgent lamp, and so far from denying you
                            the privilege of having one, we will give one cent towards another. But is it not in danger
                            so near the gas factory?23
                  
                    
            
            LOCKETOWN then took up the cause for Locke. He tried a tug at the heart strings approach. A candid
                    evaluation of Locke's dim prospects was slightly overstated in an impassioned appeal for
                    even a rival's natural sympathy for the feelings of the underdog: 
                        Business dull…. Of course things are not as flourishing here as what we pretend
                            they are; but we have a part to play. We see plainly that 
                        
                           21
                                    
                                        Wakarusa
                                    
                                    Sun, March 11, 1875.
                        
                           22
                                    Ibid.
                        
                           23
                                    Ibid., March 18, 1875.
                     
                             Nappanee is going to eclipse Locke, in spite of our
                            utmost endeavors to prevent it. But still we must appear as if business is brisk here, for a
                            little while longer.
                        The truth is, we own property here, that since the coming of Nappanee has been rapidly
                            depreciating in value and if things go on the way they have been going, after a while we
                            could make more by letting it out for a potato patch. But you see, Mr. Editor, if we can
                            only induce a ew people to believe that Nappanee is a part of Locke, as we have been trying,
                            and succeed in roping in a few greenhorns to buy our real estate here, we can then move over
                            to Nappanee and find a situation there….
                        We have tried every expedient that we could hit upon for puffing Locke, in fact we played the
                            "wolf in sheeps clothing," and have written from Nappanee, damaging it as
                            much as we could. Of course we did not strictly confine ourselves to the truth; but then it
                            was in a good cause. We have now a plan we think will do. It is to widen the streets here,
                            and put lamps on the corners. We are doing nicely at present and if
                            "Nappanee" will only keep his mouth shut, we think our plan will
                            succeed….
                        We have only one lamp at present, and we have ten times as much gas as it can consume, but
                            even then, between you and me, we think we can work better in the dark, at all events, until
                            our property is sold—and Locke looks better by night.24
                  
                    
            
            But was this genuine correspondence from Locke, or was it fabricated in Nappanee and planted in the
                    press? While it has some ring of authenticity, it is suspect. The general tone and style are
                    reminiscent of NAPPANEE. It is also the only correspondence signed LOCKETOWN. Moreover, the next
                    correspondence again conies from TRUMP, JR., who makes a point which may have more significance than
                    appears on the surface: "today, were it not for the energy of the Eby Bros,
                        the trains would go smoking thru your place as thru any other wilderness. We do not propose
                    donating anything in charity to Nappanee; nor will we permit her to pilfer from us. Send in your
                        penny."25 Did Locke's aborted "donation"
                    of those five acres to the railroad perhaps trigger Metzler's and Culp's notions
                    to plat a village, or had they come to that decision earlier, independently? The true story will
                    probably never be known; yet, TRUMP, JR., raises a question upon which it might be profitable to
                    speculate.
            In the midst of this wrangling the 
                        Wakarusa
                    
                    Sunalso offered some observations and a bit of advice which is not 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Times, March 18, 1875.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Wakarusa
                            
                            Sun, March 25, 1875. Italics have been added by the author.
               
                     completely clear: "Our Nappanee correspondent writes a
                    good article, but he should not try to disturb the ‘old landmarks’ of Locke,
                    for they have the oldest title in law and will hold the ‘balance of power.’
                        "26 At a later date the 
                        Wakarusa
                     newspaper added: "Nappanee and Locke correspondents are having a little
                    wrestling match. Who will win, is the question. They are too near together. Our mother told us long
                    ago that children never got along as well when they settled down near the old folks."27
            
            Still later NAPPANEE returned to the matter of the lamps and the penny: "That penny I laid
                    in readiness at my bankers, made out to your order, and the only trouble now is how to send it, as
                    you say that there are so many carpet baggers around Locke, I would be afraid to make my appearance
                    there with so large amount of specie on my person. What has become of that other lamp? Did it
                    explode already?" Worse for Locke than the sarcasm was a note that prefaced the foregoing:
                    "There is some rumor, with what foundations we cannot say, that Henry F. Eby has received
                    orders from the railroad company to remove his depot, so that the company can commence building
                    their own station." As if that were not enough, NAPPANEE added that the postmaster at
                    Nappanee had received his credentials and that the new postoffice — called Nappanee
                    — had been established. Joe Strohm, he further reported, was moving his planing mill from
                    Locke to Nappanee, and he charged: "Some malicious individual belonging to Locke inserted a
                    pin with the point upward in the cushion of a buggy seat, belonging to a gentleman who went to Locke
                    from this place the other day…. such deplicable [sic] tricks are a disgrace to any
                    civilized community."28
            
            Meanwhile, if NAPPANEE's account can be believed (and his is the only report of the event),
                    one Locke partisan personally carried the battle right to the streets of Nappanee. Supposedly he
                    made the point that as a more advanced town Locke had certain advantages over an upstart, but his
                    choice of words was poor, again assuming that NAPPANEE reported the story faithfully. 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., March 4, 1875.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., March 18, 1875.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., April 8, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  B&O DEPOT, 1875-1911
                  Courtesy Nappanee Public Library, Nappanee, Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                        Some Lockeite was blowing around here to-day that Locke has the advantage of Nappanee in
                            being a finished town. Little did he think of the judgment he was
                            pronouncing on Locke. It is now nearly time for that potato patch arrangement to come into
                            operation. It is finished it is true….
                        Locke has at length got that refulgent street lamp in operation, but the quality of the gas
                            they burn there is so poor that the glass is nearly black—and there it stands and
                            probably will stand, long after Locke has ceased to exist, to mark the spot where once stood
                            the mighty rival of Nappanee.29
                  
                     Of course NAPPANEE could afford to pour it on. For him and his village the day had been
                    won. New people, many from Locke, were moving in almost by the day, often bringing their dwellings
                    or business houses with them. And the announcements of new buildings and businesses continued at a
                    rapid clip.30
            
            With all the charges and countercharges, the hot air and horseplay, Nappanee people writing from
                    Locke, and Locke people writing from Nappanee—with all this action—the source
                    and true nature of some newspaper communications are in doubt as has been noted. The most bizarre
                    affair, however, occurred in May, 1875. Presumably the new postmaster at Nappanee, as one of his
                    first duties, had on May 10 written the B&O suggesting that since a postoffice had been
                    established at Nappanee, the time was ripe to change the railroad station's name from Locke
                    to Nappanee. The alleged reply was dated May 15. NAPPANEE quoted it as follows: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Office of the B&O RR
                           
                                    May 15, 1875
                                
                        Mr. Postmaster of Nappanee:
                        Yours is at hand of the 10th inst. We cannot change the name of your station. Locke
                                    has already cost us four thousand dollars, and if your town can raise ten thousand
                                    dollars it might effect a change.
                        
                                    N. Guilford, M.D.31
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            NAPPANEE commented: 
                        Probably you are not aware that the B.& O. R.R. has removed their headquarters to
                            Locke. Our postmaster received a letter last Friday from that point, purporting to be from
                            the head manager of the road…. If our Locke friends want to make any
                            communications from the railroad in future, we hope they will do it thro' the
                            medium of the Times.
                        
                     
                        29
                                
                                    Goshen
                                
                                Times, May 6, 1875.
                     
                        30
                                Ibid.
                     
                        31
                                Ibid., June 10, 1875.
                  
                        
                        … And we advise our unknown friend before he undertakes to write again, to reflect
                            that by using another man's name he lays himself open to serious charges. And
                            again, when railroad companies write letters they generally have them signed by the
                            Secretary and not by their physician. We excuse our Locke friend, as we know they have not
                            much to do there at present, and must pass away the time; but if they cannot manufacture
                            anything better than this, they had better quit letter writing and build some more street
                                lamps.32
                  
                    
            
            There is an abundance of questions about this affair. Was such a letter actually received in Nappanee
                    or was it concocted in Nappanee? On the other hand, if it was fabricated in Locke, as NAPPANEE
                    implied, how did the Locke correspondent so quickly intercept a postmaster's letter to the
                    B&O? Or a final question, was the letter a genuine communication from the B&O?
            With this rhubarb NAPPANEE, too, ceased as a correspondent. All the original protagonists were thus
                    removed from the scene: OCCASIONAL, TRUMP, JR., LOCKE-TOWN, and the hardiest of them all, NAPPANEE.
                    With respect to the Locke-Nappanee tussle, no further correspondent of note arose in Locke. In
                    Nappanee, however, two new writers appeared, KITTY and MINNIE. While each reported genuine and
                    meaningful information, they also needled one another! But that is part of another story.
            By August, 1875, KITTY was reporting momentous progress in Nappanee. The citizens had agreed to build
                    a passenger depot and to donate one thousand dollars to the railroad. In return the B&O
                    agreed to build a grain elevator, freight depot, lumber dock, and stockyards. In fact, the president
                    of the B&O was reported to have been in Nappanee to locate them. In addition to this news,
                    KITTY could not resist taking some potshots at Locke: 
                        Messrs. Eby Bros., of Locke, have been given notice to remove their building that now answers
                            the purposes of a depot, within 60 days, and when that is gone we suppose the claims of
                            Locke of having been the benefactor of Nappanee, perishes….
                        What has become of all the Locke correspondents, who were so busy last winter? We should like
                            to hear how they are getting on over there. We know that they try to persuade themselves and
                            others that they do as much business as formerly, but the fact that in one store where four
                            men used to be kept busy attending to the wants of customers, one man can now easily attend
                            to business…. 'Tis true they induced one man 
                        
                                    32
                                    Ibid.
                                
                     
                            
                            
                        MAIN STREET, NAPPANEE, INDIANA, LOOKING SOUTH (c. 1876–1877)
                        Courtesy James L. Weygand.
                     
                            
                            
                        MAIN STREET, NAPPANEE, INDIANA, LOOKING NORTH (c. 1876–1877)
                        Courtesy James L. Weygand.
                     
                             who intended building in Nappanee to go there. But if we
                            can believe all that we hear, we hardly regret his absense.33
                  
                    
            
            By December KITTY too had faded away; a mildmannered "N" took over: 
                        Our town has grown to the astonishment of the R.R. officials, who frequently stop here. They
                            say it is not equaled by any of the new villages on the line, except 
                                Garrett City
                            .34 The grain elevator is completed and is receiving
                            wheat…. The passenger depot is nearly completed, and will be quite nice when
                                done.35 The U.B. church is also nearly completed.
                        Our Christmas present was a new time-card, changing the name of our station from Locke to
                            Nappanee; (just as OCCASIONAL said it should not be.)36
                  
                    
            
            Even as Nappanee replaced Locke on the B&O time cards, the former had already equaled or
                    surpassed its old rival in every respect. It was in fact in a period of rapid development that in a
                    few years made it the third largest city in the county after 
                        Elkhart
                     and 
                        Goshen
                    .37 So furious was the one way traffic to Nappanee that the 
                        Wakarusa
                    
                    Sun through its Nappanee correspondent, YOPPY, wrote: "Your Locke
                    ‘Buddhist’ forgot to say ‘We are shipping houses to Nappanee at the
                    rate of two a week and if the good sleighing lasts a few weeks longer, we will run entirely out of
                    stock.’ "38
            
            With just about everything going its way Nappanee was prepared to accept at face value almost any
                    kind of good 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., August 12, 26, 1875.
                  
                     34 Nappanee eventually overtook Garrett in producing revenues for the
                            railroad and, until the rapid rise of 
                                Gary
                             after 1906, was unequaled in generating money for the B&O between 
                                Chicago
                             and Canton, 
                                Ohio
                            . Even when surpassed by the steel city, Nappanee generated revenues far out of
                            proportion to its size. This information was furnished to the author in the early 1950s by
                            the Nappanee B&O freight agent.
                  
                     35 To make way for a new brick depot in 1911 the building mentioned
                            here was moved two miles south of Nappanee for use as a barn. It was rediscovered there in
                            1973, still a barn, and in reasonably good condition even after nearly one hundred years.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Times, December 30, 1875. "N" was not completely
                            accurate. The B&O changed the name to Napanee—with only one
                            "p." It was not until 1919 that the railroad got around to adding the
                            second "p" to conform with town and postal usage. "Our records
                            indicate … the spelling of the name was changed by the railroad [from
                            ‘Napanee’] to ‘Nappanee’ with two
                            ‘p's’ in 1919." R. M. Van Sant, director of public
                            relations, B&O Railroad, to James L. Weygand, September 22, 1943.
                  
                     37 In 1874 there were ten towns in the county offering town lots. By
                            1880 Nappanee's population was 592; by 1887, 1,500; by 1892, 2,025. Nappanee News, July 22, 1880, November 1, 1887, December 15, 1892.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Wakarusa
                            
                            Sun, January 30, 1879.
               
                    
                    
                  GAS LIGHT IN NAFPANEE, INDIANA (LATE 1870s)
                  Courtesy Nappanee Public Library, Nappanee, Indiana.
               
                     news, or rumor thereof, about the village. It was not unusual
                    then when the Nappanee News in November, 1879, reported: 
                        We learn from a reliable source that the B&O has purchased ground opposite the
                            passenger house for the purpose of erecting repair shops thereon: If the report is true, and
                            we have no reason to doubt it, it will be quite a benefit to Nappanee, as they will employ
                            about 75 men. The managers say that nearly all their ‘breaks’ on this
                            division happen between Garrett and LaPaz, and as Nappanee is about the center between the
                            two points, have decided to locate the shop here. The land was sold last week
                            …."
                     A red faced editor had to eat his words two weeks later: "A week or two ago we
                    stated that the B&O road had purchased land here and was going to erect repair shops. It now
                    seems that we were the victim of misplaced confidence, as the company has no idea of locating shops
                    here at all. We hope the public will take note accordingly."39
            
            To the possible relief of county newspaper readers the press had by 1879 virtually ceased to
                    publicize any further infighting between Locke and Nappanee. For Nappanee the day had been won. For
                    Locke it was a matter of accepting what had been inevitable from the start.
            Locke had continued its skid. Its people continued to drift to Nappanee. The history of the county
                    published by Charles C. Chapman in 1881 was, in fact, the last in which Locke was considered a
                    viable village. Inventoried as existing in the town were "one first-class drug store
                    … a large dry goods and grocery store … a furniture store … one
                    first-class grist and flouring mill … a large saw mill … a mill doing general
                    wood work … one boarding house, two physicians and surgeons, [three additional] saw
                    mills, one United Brethren Church, one excellent school-building, one carpenter, one jeweler, two
                    blacksmith shops, and 50 to 75 dwelling houses …."40 The
                    history was woefully out of 
                  
                     39 Nappanee News, November 27, December 11, 1879. In November, 1879,
                            the Nappanee News was in its eighth month of publication in Nappanee. Anson B. Smith had
                            bought the 
                                Wakarusa
                             Sun and had moved it to Nappanee for its first issue there, March 27, 1879.
                            Nappanee Weekly News, March 27, 1879; Nappanee News, December 25, 1879,
                            February 19, 1880, and others. For the complete story of the first year of the Nappanee News and Smith's years with the 
                                Wakarusa
                            
                            Sun see James L. Weyland [Weygand], "Nappanee's
                            Pioneering, Two-Fisted News Editor," 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Tribune magazine section, March 14, 1976, pp. 3–5. The author
                            plans to publish this article later in book form under the title Written in the
                                Stick.
                  
                     40 Charles C. Chapman and Company, pubs., History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 1046–47.
               
                     date, however, before it reached subscribers' hands. In
                    June, 1881, even the "first class drug store" was moved to Nappanee where it
                    remained a drug store until the 1940s.41 It is one of the few buildings yet to
                    remain of those early ones; behind a new facade it is today a Sears catalog store. The Locke post
                    office was discontinued in 1893.42 In 1905 Anthony Deahl's history of
                    the county stated: "Now there are perhaps twenty-five or thirty people residing within the
                    original limits of the village. … a small store building … [has] just been
                    erected by E. J. Pippenger, who accordingly has the honor of being the sole representative of
                    business activity in the place."43 Even that commercial activity lasted
                    only a short while. Three years later the Nappanee News reported: "Locke
                    Town's Landmark Gone. John May is having the Locketown store building moved thru town to
                    his place south of town for a barn. This is the last landmark of a once prosperous village absorbed
                    by Nappanee."44
            
            To this day Locke exists in a sense, with perhaps thirtyfive to forty residents. There has been no
                    commercial activity of any kind for many years, however. Histories and articles usually lump the
                    village with other "Towns that Never Grew Up," or "Ghost Towns."
                    It has been most recently characterized as "just a little hamlet by the side of the
                        road."45
            
            
               
                  41 Nappanee News, June 16, 1881.
               
                  42
                        Ibid., December 20, 1893.
               
                  43 Deahl, A Twentieth Century History and Biographical Record
                            of 
                                Elkhart County
                            
                  , 125.
               
                  44 Nappanee News, December 23, 1908.
               
                  45 Emil V. Anderson, Taproots of 
                                Elkhart
                             History (
                            Elkhart
                        , 1949), 51.
            
         
         
         
            Proclamation
            
            
         
         
         
            Awards of Merit and Certificates of Commendation from American Association for State and Local
                    History
            The Certificate of Commendation is given for outstanding achievement by an
                    individual or an organization in the field of state, provincial, and local history, but with that
                    achievement judged in the light of local limiting circumstances rather than on a basis of overall
                    excellence in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     as a whole. The certificate is a pat on the back and says to the individual or
                    organization that receives it: "We think you are doing a wonderful job in your area, and we
                    want to recognize you for it." Such recognition was made in Indiana in 1976 to Dorothy June
                    Williams for her work in 
                        Hancock County
                     history.
            The Award of Merit was the original award of the American Association for State and
                    Local History and is still the backbone of its competition. It is given for excellence of
                    accomplishment or program in the field of state, provincial, and local history and is in no way
                    judged relative to local limiting circumstances. The giving of the Award of Merit is the same as
                    saying to everyone: "This is public acknowledgment by the American Association for State
                    and Local History that this accomplishment or this program, in comparison with all similar
                    accomplishments and programs in North America, deserves the adjective excellent." The
                    Indiana award for 1976 was made to Karl J. R. Arndt for his contribution to the history of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Nomination forms are available from Gayle Thornbrough, executive secretary, Indiana Historical
                    Society, 315 West 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
                46202. Miss Thornbrough is chairman for nominations
                    from Indiana for 1977. All nominations must be made on the "Awards Nomination
                    Form" and postmarked by not later than May 21, 1977. Each nominator must
                    include a supporting letter which is explicit in indicating why the award or certificate seems
                    merited. Each nominator is also responsible for making certain that at least two or three other
                    persons send similar statements directly to the state chairman. Finally, each nominator should send
                    relevant supporting material such as pamphlets, newspaper clippings, programs, scripts, and
                books.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The American Revolution in the West. By George M. Waller. (
                        Chicago
                    : Nelson-Hall, 1976. Pp. xxi, 153. Illustrations, notes, maps, suggestions for
                    additional reading, index. $10.00.)
            George M. Waller eschews "academic profundities" (p. xiii) in this volume on
                    military campaigns in the West during the time of the American Revolution. While all theaters are
                    dutifully covered, George Rogers Clark's exploits provide a narrative focus.
                    Waller's portrait of Clark is generally an admiring one notwithstanding Clark's
                    "personal reasons" for pressing 
                        Virginia
                    's cause. "Fortunately his personal ambitions coincided with the
                    public interest" (pp. 49–50). Waller's story climaxes with the
                    successful campaigns against Kas-kaskia and Vincennes. The march on 
                        Vincennes
                     and capture of the "hair buyer," British Colonel Henry Hamilton, was
                    "a minor epic of heroic and determined men" (p. 69). Indeed, Clark may have
                    aborted a decisive British campaign against the frontiers.
            If Clark's heroics give this volume a dramatic unity, they also limit its scope. The
                    American Revolution does not fit neatly into western history; conversely, the significance of these
                    episodes in Revolutionary history is not clear. It is doubtful that Clark's conquests were
                    important in treaty negotiations at 
                        Paris
                    . Further, British-American conflict in the Northwest continued long after the war was
                    supposed to be over. The time frame appears inappropriate too if frontier hostilities are seen in
                    the broader context of white-Indian conflict. Waller is aware of these problems. Within the limits
                    of his conception of the war in the West he succeeds admirably in reducing dozens of minor episodes
                    into some kind of order. But this conception is too narrow to be of much use or interest to the
                    serious historian; lay readers may be left with dangerous misapprehensions.
            Waller asserts that "the ever-increasing number of Americans" moving West was
                    "the most significant factor in determining the outcome of the war" (p. 96). But
                    the shifting fortunes of war illuminated political and sectional tensions within the new
                    settlements. It is clear that many frontiersmen were indifferent to the American cause; Loyalism was
                    a major problem. Indeed, the political loyalties of westerners remained suspect long after the war,
                    and, as  Waller points out, the westward thrust of settlement
                    scattered population, creating a "new kind of weakness." The links between
                    ultimate military success and political and social developments in the West thus appear to be more
                    complicated than Waller allows.
            Perhaps such "profundities" are out of place in a bicentennial history. Perhaps the
                    only way to write a book about American "heroes" is to focus on military
                    operations, no matter how trivial and no matter how complicated and compromised the motives of the
                    protagonists. Yet if Americans celebrate "heroic" soldiers following
                    "their leaders on seemingly hopeless missions, enduring privation and danger" (p.
                    31), must their Indian enemies always "lurk about" committing acts of unimaginable
                    savagery on defenseless women and children? Must Indian soldiers be described as "unstable,
                    vacillating, and unreliable" (p. 31) ? Waller admits that "Indian-hating"
                    whites committed some atrocities, but who would not hate the Indians of
                    Waller's book ? Surely a proper bicentennial history can celebrate the
                    heroism and recognize the humanity of all American peoples.
            
                    
                  
                            Columbia
                         University, 
                            New York
                        
               
                
            Peter Onuf
         
         
            
               Fort Laurens, 1778–1779: The Revolutionary War in 
                            Ohio
                        
               . By Thomas L Pieper and James B. Gidney. ([
                  Kent, Ohio
               ]: 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1976. Pp. xi, 97. Illustrattions, notes, maps, note on sources.
                    $7.95.")
            This slim, attractive volume tells the story of Fort Laurens, the little outpost on the
                        Tuscarawas River that marked the westernmost advance of American
                    continentalss into the 
                        Ohio
                     country during the Revolutionary War. The fort was established by General Lachlan
                    McIntosh, the second of four soldiers who commanded at Fort Pitt under General George 
                        Washington
                     and the Continental Congress. Constructed in November, 1778, Fort Laurens was designed
                    to support the line of attack against the British western headquarters at 
                        Detroit
                    . Moving west from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Mclntosh had established a fort named for himself on the north bank of the
                        Ohio River at the mouth of Beaver River. Fort Laurens
                    represented a further extension westward some seventy miles.
            
            The authors recount from first hand sources the arduous advance of McIntosh's forces,
                    numbering about twelve hundred, burdened with supplies and slowed by weakening pack horses. Pressure
                    from 
                        Virginia
                    , whose leaders favored George Rogers Clark's stroke against British outposts
                    on the Mississippi and Wabash rivers, led Congress to scale down its plans.
                    McIntosh was ordered to attack Indians along the Sandusky River rather than to
                    attempt an attack on 
                        Detroit
                    . Worsening weather, dwindling food supplies, and expiring enlistments halted the
                    enterprise at the Tuscarawas. McIntosh decided to retire to Fort Mclntosh and Fort Pitt as soon as
                    Fort Laurens was completed. By early December, 1778, the little army withdrew, leaving one hundred
                    fifty men under Colonel John Gibson to complete construction and man the outpost. Indians besieged
                    the fort most of the winter. The garrison suffered and starved until Mclntosh led a relief
                    expedition in the spring to replace Gibson's stubborn defenders with Major Frederick 
                        Vernon
                     and fresh troops.
            Colonel Daniel Brodhead, successor to Mclntosh, urged abandonment of Fort Laurens. Arguing against
                    the strategic concepts of his predecessor, Brodhead opposed spreading his slender forces among many
                    small forts. Under orders from 
                        Washington
                    , Brodhead maintained Fort Laurens for six months. It was finally abandoned in August,
                    1779. In an interesting final chapter the authors discuss the archaeological findings of Richard
                    Michael Gramly and his associates, who have excavated the site of the fort, and the successful
                    efforts directed by the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society to preserve and display the area.
            The book justifiably dispenses with footnotes since it is based almost entirely on a limited number
                    of sources fully acknowledged in a concluding note. The lack of an index may hamper use of the book
                    for reference.
            Brief references to other events—such as Dunmore's War, Clark's
                    campaigns, Chief Cornstalk's murder, or the relationships between leaders at Fort Pitt and
                    the eastern 
                        Ohio
                        Delaware
                     Indians and their Moravian missionary leaders—are likely to arouse interest
                    in events with which this account does not deal. If so, one hopes this lively little volume will
                    stimulate further reading on wider aspects of the valiant, frustrating, but finally successful
                    struggle that held the western borderlands for the new nation.
            
                    
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            George M. Waller
         
         
         
            
               The Impact of the American Revolution Abroad. Papers presented at the fourth
                    Library of Congress Symposium on the American Revolution, May 8 and 9, 1975. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1976. Pp. viii, 171. Notes. $4.50.)
            This volume maintains the scholarly standards of its three predecessors and perhaps presents a more
                    cohesive intellectual design and texture than the others. One finishes the book with a sense that
                    the Revolution's impact abroad was considerable, though not always in the places, at the
                    times, or upon the persons one might most readily suspect. Quite commonly, as Robert R. Palmer
                    points out in his restrained and judicious opening essay, "it was the action of the
                    Americans, not their ideas, that was influential" (p. 13).
            Claude Fohlen's "The Impact of the American Revolution on 
                        France
                    " tends to be very critical of previous interpretations, overly cautious,
                    sometimes agnostic ("it is better at this point to admit our ignorance," p. 28),
                    and occasionally just plain banal ("The American Revolution was more or less present in the
                    background of the Constituent Assembly," p. 35). He also, unfortunately, seems to be
                    unaware of Joyce Appleby's very pertinent article in the William and Mary
                        Quarterly (April, 1971).
            In essays covering the impact of the Revolution on the Dutch Republic, the Spanish and Portuguese
                    speaking world, and 
                        Ireland
                    , J. W. Schulte Nordholt, Mario Rodriguez, and Owen Dudley Edwards all offer much more
                    vigorous, substantial, well documented, subtle, and charming discussions. Edwards' article,
                    in fact, is brilliantly written and is frequently fresh in its conclusions, although it is also
                    outrageous or hyperbolic at times. (Even his footnotes are both puckish and provocative.) Edwards
                    reinforces Palmer's point with this well founded assertion: "It quickly emerged
                    that the American revolution, if it contributed little in ideology to 
                        Ireland
                    , gave a new sense of priorities to Irish Protestants. Once they were armed they could
                    see the logic of more economic power for themselves as preferential to the absolute subordination of
                    the Catholics" (p. 141).
            Edwards' treatment seems in some respects to contradict John H. Plumb's passing
                    remarks upon 
                        Ireland
                     in his essay concerning the Revolution's impact upon Great Britain. Otherwise,
                    Plumb's piece is very personalized and readable, though 
                    it suffers from the strange neglect of relevant monographs by Arthur Sheps, Dora Mae Clark, and
                    Solomon Lutnick. Nikolai N. Bolkhovitinov, a senior academician from the Union of Soviet Socialist
                    Republics, performs very predictably in "The American Revolution and the Russian
                    Empire." Proper incantations about Karl Marx ana the capitalist system pop up in the first
                    two paragraphs. The author then settles down to some good descriptive writing but loses all sense of
                    proportion on pages 89–90 with a series of wildly overstated claims about the cosmic
                    importance of Aleksandr N. Radischev.
            The book concludes with three very brief commentaries about the Revolution's impact upon
                            
                  Germany, Japan
               , and 
                        Spain
                    . Overall the volume has been poorly proofread, and it lacks an index, which will reduce
                    its utility. It does offer rich documentation, however, which many will mine to good effect in the
                    future. It is, most certainly, an interesting volume with some stimulating lessons for the 
                        United States
                     about the Enlightenment's applied influence, about the consequences of
                    provincial pride in tension with metropolitan arrogance, about the filtration of the
                    "American" experience to other lands through French books, and, implicitly, about
                    the inappropriate usage of "America" when one really means the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    Cornell University, 
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y.
                
            Michael Kammen
         
         
            
               Servants of the Sword: French Intendants of the Army, 1630–70. By
                    Douglas Clark Baxter. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1976. Pp. xvii, 243. Notes, tables, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $11.95.)
            This is, despite its merits, a flawed volume. As the author correctly points out in his preface,
                    there are at least three major limitations to the work. The study is extremely narrow in scope; it
                    is based upon a flimsy research foundation; and there are serious methodological problems in
                    determining precisely who the French intendants of the army were in the seventeenth century. These
                    are, however, not the only limitations to Baxter's book. It is written in a disjointed and
                    often opaque manner. As a result it is often difficult for the reader to come to grips with the
                    essential thrust of the author's argument. Moreover, the fragmentary  nature of the evidence presented creates serious problems regarding
                    both continuity and analysis.
            Baxter traces the evolution of the office of the French army intendant during the period from 1630 to
                    1670. The army intendant's major responsibility shifted gradually from the administration
                    of justice to a far more complex role. He became responsible for the army's finances; he
                    took care of its sick and wounded and also paid the troops. In addition, he supervised work on
                    fortifications and reported to his superior, the secretary of state for war, everything that
                    occurred in his locality. It is clear that the army intendant's real power rested not only
                    on his own administrative ability but also on the kind of support he received from his king. Not
                    surprisingly the king utilized army intendants to try to impose civilian control upon the regions of 
                        France
                    .
            Despite the book's structural and stylistic weaknesses, there is a great deal of valuable
                    information regarding seventeenth century 
                        France
                     to be found in Servants of the Sword. Furthermore, a serious effort
                    has been made to write an administrative history about what until now has been a most obscure
                    office.
            
                    Queen's University, Kingston, 
                            Ontario
                        
               
                
            George A. Rawlyk
         
         
            
               Sir William Johnson: Colonial American, 1715–1763. By Milton W.
                    Hamilton. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1976. Pp. xiv, 402. Illustrations, notes, note on sources,
                    appendixes, index. $17.50.)
            Within two decades of his arrival in North America Sir William Johnson had become a legend. As a
                    farmer, merchant, soldier, and diplomat, and as a Mohawk sachem, colonial official, and English
                    baronet, Johnson's decisions and activities affected the lives of many Americans, both red
                    and white, during the volatile years of the second half of the eighteenth century. As a result,
                    previous accounts of Johnson's life have often been mired in myth, half truth, and
                    misstatement. In this first of a projected two volume biography, Milton W. Hamilton seeks to rescue
                    Johnson, who "has suffered so much unjust representation over the passage of
                    time…" (p. ix). As former editor of the Johnson Papers and retired state
                    historian of 
                  New York, Hamilton
                is eminently  equipped
                    to accomplish his task. Perhaps he has succeeded too well.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     concludes this first volume at 1763 with the construction of "Johnson
                    Hall," the material capstone of Johnson's rise to preeminence in 
                        New York
                     and the colonies generally. During the course of the book he details Johnson's
                    accumulation of personal and public influence by concentrating on his activities as frontier
                    entrepreneur, Indian diplomat, and military leader. The amount of detail and 
                        Hamilton
                    's grasp of it is prodigious. In fact, for almost one third of the text readers
                    follow Johnson to the successful conclusion of the 1755 Canadian campaign which resulted in a defeat
                    for the French, the capture of Baron de Dieskau, and atonement for Edward Braddock's
                    debacle (pp. 113–200).
            For all its precision, however, the book has faults. The emphasis on the particular has precluded
                    real analysis. Johnson does not come to life. For example, in the spring of 1738 Johnson arrived in 
                        Boston
                     knowing little "of frontier conditions or needs…" (p. 8).
                    In the space of eight years and fourteen pages, "while trade declined, and with it the
                    interest of the English colony [
                        New York
                    ] among the natives [Iroquois]…," Johnson made himself "a
                    man of affairs, and his trade with the Indians had won him their friendship" (p. 22). But 
                        Hamilton
                     does not explain precisely how this immigrant become entrepreneur succeeded where
                    others failed. It is necessary to know more than that he "perhaps… at first fell
                    in with the traders' ways," that "he was far-sighted," that he
                    "consulted the Indian chiefs," and that he "watched for his
                    opportunities…" (p. 22). Did this make Johnson unique, or was it a process often
                    repeated on this and other frontiers? That the data for such analysis exist 
                        Hamilton
                     demonstrates through an over abundant use of direct quotations from contemporary
                    sources.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    's characterization of the American Indian is also open to question. The native
                    American, he writes, "for all his cruel savagery, his lust and greed that frequently led to
                    his corruption and degeneracy, was an ingenious child" (p. 45). Given the significance of
                    the Iroquois Confederacy to Johnson's success the reader might expect 
                        Hamilton
                    's description of the red man to have been tempered by recent and available
                    works such as Anthony F. C. Wallace's The Death and Rebirth of the Seneca
                    (1969).
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     has indeed presented a precisely detailed account of Johnson's rise to
                    preeminence in colonial America. This reviewer, at least, hopes the legend will achieve flesh and
                    blood in the forthcoming, concluding volume.
            
               
                  Saginaw Valley State College, University Center,
                        Mich.
            John Vincent Jezierski
         
         
            
               Adams: An American Dynasty. By Francis Russell. 
                        New York
                    : American Heritage Publishing Co., Inc., 1976. Pp. 374. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $15.00.)
            In 1966 Thomas Boylston Adams, peace candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate, received eight percent of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Democratic vote. Descendant of two presidents who were defeated after single terms,
                    Adams took an unpopular stand which he thought consistent with the meaning of his name. An Adams, he
                    told a reporter in 1975, should "always be on the side of the rebels" (p. 369).
            Adams' view is one permissible way of interpreting a tradition that includes John and John
                    Quincy Adams, the "Novanglus" papers, and unbending opposition to the gag rule.
                    Others who bear that tradition may view it differently; George Caspar Homans, 
                        Harvard
                     sociologist, Republican, and "hard-boiled egghead," is no rebel in
                    any obvious sense; and fellow Adamses have been business executives, yachtsmen, and gentlemen
                    farmers more often than leaders of revolt (p. 369). Their tradition, begun by a rebel who was also a
                    founder of American conservatism, is consistently distinguished but not uniformly rebellious.
            Francis Russell's deeply respectful history of the Adams family briefly recognizes its
                    living members but properly concentrates on the generations from President John Adams through great
                    grandson Brooks, last of the line to occupy the "Old House" at 
                        Quincy
                    , now part of the Adams National Historic Site. Those four generations were united by a
                    sense of place, education at 
                        Harvard
                     College, brilliant achievements in politics and literature, deep personal
                    disappointment, and recurrent pessimism about the course of democratic culture. Whether they
                    rebelled against empire or slave power, learned to make and keep money in Jay Gould's
                    unseemly era, or sought refuge in the Virgin, the Adamses were usually out  of harmony with their times. In 1919 Brooks Adams thought that the
                    world had grown tired of his family; the idea was more characteristic than original.
            The Adams family history is familiar to literate Americans, and Russell tells it in familiar terms.
                    He has digested the standard books and documents, which are listed in his short bibliography, and
                    has made a coherent, highly entertaining narrative which will neither excite nor offend scholars.
                    Some might object to his insistent support of the Adamses against all
                    opponents—"devious" Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren, "hawk-nosed, slaveholding" John Tyler—but that is
                    unimportant (pp. 202, 226–27). This is a tribute as much as it is a history; its
                    partisanship is entirely aboveboard and is not usually heavy handed.
            The book owes much to its publisher, American Heritage. It is characteristic of the firm's
                    products, handsomely printed and bound, lavishly illustrated, and unencumbered by any scholarly
                    apparatus beyond a single page of bibliography. It is intended to be popular in an honest and
                    instructive way; it fully merits an extensive readership.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        
               
                
            Donald B. Marti
         
         
            
               Andrew Jackson and the Search for Vindication. By James C. Curtis. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, 
                        Brown
                     and Company, 1976. Pp. xi, 194. Note on sources, index. Clothbound, $7.50;
                    paperbound, $3.95.)
            Like other volumes in the Library of American Biography series, Andrew
                        Jackson and the Search for Vindication is a concise, interpretive biography intended for a
                    general college audience. Based primarily on published sources, the book retells the familiar saga
                    of Old Hickory. James C. Curtis clearly recounts Jackson's turbulent youth, rise to power
                    and prominence in frontier 
                        Tennessee
                    , military exploits, entry into presidential politics, and eventful two term presidency.
                    Because the events of Jackson's life have been described many times, this brief volume adds
                    no new details to the story.
            What Curtis has done is to interpret Old Hickory's life and career in a fresh manner. Using
                    an incisive, no nonsense, psychological analysis, Curtis argues that Jackson's life
                    represented a continual search for personal vindication. Beneath Old Hickory's aggressive
                    and bold behavior lay "deep uncertainties" 
                    rooted in his childhood. "Throughout his life he felt a need to prove himself, to triumph
                    over enemies he believed were assaulting his reputation. Even in victory, he never felt victorious.
                    The more his reputation grew, the more he feared that some conspiracy, some cabal was working to
                    diminish his standing with the people" (p. ix). Curtis believes that this anxiety resulted
                    in an obsessive quest for "control" and "order" in
                    Jackson's personal life and public career. Hence, Jackson's military career and
                    campaign for president as well as his conduct in the Peggy Eaton affair, the bank war, Indian
                    affairs, and nullification are viewed respectively as part of this intense personal search. In each
                    case Curtis argues that Jackson was moved primarily by personal anxieties, not political or national
                    objectives.
            The author's approach inevitably results in an unflattering portrait of Jackson as a
                    military chieftain and public servant. Always preoccupied by selfish personal considerations,
                    Jackson is never depicted as a leader who acted because he believed that what he did was in the best
                    interests of his party or the American people. "Founder of the national party system,
                    champion of the common man, and creator of the strong presidency are but a few of the accolades
                    history and historians accord him. Jackson did not set out to serve these ends. His goals were more
                    limited" (p. 184). Curtis is even critical of Jackson's handling of the
                    nullification crisis. Although long accorded high marks by scholars for his conduct during the
                    controversy, Jackson is criticized here because he followed "no consistent political
                    course" during the crisis and failed "to give much thought to partisan
                    consequences of his actions" (p. 133). Curtis is forced necessarily to ignore a wealth of
                    interpretations dealing with Jackson's role in the bank war, nullification, Indian removal,
                    the creation of the Democratic party, and the growth of the presidency. As a result this intriguing
                    biography is not likely to have much impact on existing historiography.
            
               Andrew Jackson and the Search for Vindication is a well written and fascinating
                    study. Because it is written for a general audience, the book carries no footnotes and includes only
                    a perfunctory note on sources. Nor has Curtis cluttered his narrative with psychological jargon. In
                    short, this modest but suggestive volume should be of interest to college students as well as
                    historians of the period.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milwaukee
                
            John H. Schroeder
         
         
         
            
               Radical Republicans in the North: State Politics during Reconstruction. Edited
                    by James C. Mohr. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1976. Pp. xvi, 200. Notes, tables, figure,
                    historiographical note and summary of source materials. $11.95.)
            This collection of studies, one for each of nine northern states, is an important contribution to an
                    understanding of state and local history in Reconstruction politics, a subject relatively neglected
                    in the past but currently attracting considerable attention. The volume brings together the
                    expertise of nine scholars, each of whom has an intimate knowledge of the state about which he
                    writes. With the exception of David 
                        Montgomery
                    's work on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Radicals, their accounts are originals rather than reprints.
            The most rigorously analytical and illuminating chapter is that of Robert Dykstra on 
                        Iowa
                    . Richard Current writes on 
                        Wisconsin
                     with characteristic grace and perception. The Midwest is indeed generously treated with
                    additional chapters on 
                        Michigan
                     by George Blackburn, 
                        Illinois
                     by Philip Swenson, and 
                        Ohio
                     by Felice Bonadio. Besides 
                        Pennsylvania
                     the East is represented by 
                  Massachusetts, Connecticut
               , and 
                        New York
                    , handled respectively by Richard Abbott, John Niven, and the editor. Mohr also
                    contributes an historiographie essay and an introduction that brings some cohesion to the separate
                    state studies.
            A collection devoted to a single topic raises expectations of internal coherence and broad
                    conclusions that are difficult to satisfy, especially with nine distinctive political entities under
                    consideration. A final chapter of conclusions, even if tentative ones, squarely based upon the nine
                    studies would have been helpful. Each contributor has shed some light upon reform at the state
                    level, but it is disappointing that the editor makes no explicit evaluation of the hypothesis raised
                    by his earlier work, namely that in the immediate postwar years Republicans tried to transform their
                    party into a vehicle for progressive social reform, an effort shattered in 
                        New York
                     by hostile public reaction to black suffrage. The separate studies confirm the fact
                    that advocacy of equal suffrage where it had not existed before the war was politically dangerous
                    though not necessarily devastating. They do not, however, establish an unequivocal relationship
                    between Republicans and socioeconomic reform. Only 
                        New York
                    
                     leaders seem to have turned deliberately to reform as a means of
                    retaining power in anticipation of the disappearance of wartime issues. Yet in most of the other
                    eight states Republicans in positions of power were responsive to reform impulses and were generally
                    ready to accept an expansive role for state government. Why institutional reform (other than black
                    suffrage) at the state level did not become an effective partisan issue remains obscure. Limited
                    perceptions in the face of socioeconomic change and a diversity of interests and values within the
                    Republican constituency appear to have played a larger role than any subservience to vested economic
                    interests.
            Ironically, the state focus of these studies underscores the importance of the national scene for
                    even the local politics of the postwar decade. Except in respect to Reconstruction and the Negro,
                    issues did not define party lines but cut across them. As congressional Republicans advanced from
                    equality before the law to equality at the ballot box, the national issue concerning black suffrage
                    became dangerous and divisive, but no alternative promised to unite the party and advance its
                    fortunes. Loyalty forged in civil conflict remained strong, but state Republican leaders
                    increasingly turned from advocacy to patronage machines and the politics of accommodation.
            
               Hunter College and Graduate Center, City University of 
                            New York
                        
               
            
            LaWanda Cox
         
         
            
               The Democratic Party and the Negro: Northern and National Politics,
                        1868–92. By Lawrence Grossman. 
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1976. Pp. xi, 212. Notes, tables, bibliography, index. $9.95.)
            It is generally believed by historians and laymen alike that black voters in the 
                        United States
                    —where they were permitted to vote—were overwhelmingly Republican
                    from the 1860s until the 1930s, after which period they have been over-whelmingly Democratic.
                    According to the common view, there were a couple of instances in which this was not true, such as
                    the presidential election of 1912 when many Negroes, including W. E. B. Du Bois, crossed over and
                    temporarily supported Woodrow Wilson; but it was not until the New Deal era that the vast majority
                    of black voters left the party of  Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     and joined the party of Franklin D. Roosevelt. It has also been freely acknowledged
                    that the Republican hold on the black electorate was not so much a result of a beneficent racial
                    policy or an organized effort to recruit Negroes as it was a consequence of the fact that black
                    voters simply had no where else to go.
            In this interesting analysis of northern Democratic party politics, Lawrence Grossman questions the
                    traditional view. Beginning with the Ulysses S. Grant-Horatio Seymour contest of 1868 and concluding
                    with the Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    -Benjamin Harrison contest of 1892, Grossman traces the evolving posture of the
                    Democratic party toward black Americans. He concludes that northern Democrats, contrary to the
                    popular image, did in fact make a qualified but sincere effort to win black support. The
                    "new departure" in Democratic policy, i.e., accepting the principle of
                    congressional reconstruction in the South while undermining its enforcement, enabled the national
                    party to make liberal overtures to potential northern black voters and, at the same time, to avoid
                    alienating the southern wing of the party, the support of which was essential for the national
                    ticket. These efforts were, of course, most successful in state and local elections. Moreover, the
                    existence of a real two party system in the North made the appeal for black votes a pragmatic
                    consideration. Unfortunately, it was not usually a case of Democrats offering positive alternatives
                    to blacks so much as it was a case of Republicans taking the black vote for granted and doing
                    nothing to deserve it. "The middle and late 1880's marked the high tide of Negro
                    rebellion against Republican neglect," Grossman states (p. 61). In other words the
                    Republicans lost many black votes by default.
            While Grossman's book displays traces of its origin as a doctoral dissertation—a
                    somewhat lockstep recitation of historical events in precise chronological order and extremely heavy
                    and detailed documentation—it is, nonetheless, written with an obvious concern for
                    engaging the reader's interest. On the negative side Grossman occasionally uses adjectives
                    of questionable accuracy to underline his point, as when he identifies Representative Samuel
                    Sullivan Cox of 
                        New York
                     as a racial "moderate" (p. 15). Finally, in setting forth his central
                    thesis in the preface, Grossman either commits a serious non sequiter, or there is
                    a printer's error. After citing  the commendable
                    northern Democratic success in the "search for Negro support," the author
                    suggests: "Northern Democratic racial liberalism helped to blunt and defeat Republican
                    desires to safeguard Negro suffrage" (p. x).
            
                    
                  
                            California
                         State College, Bakersfield
                
            Forrest G. Wood
         
         
            
               Conquering the Great American Desert: 
                            Nebraska
                        
               . By Everett Dick. 
                  
                            Nebraska
                         State Historical Society Publications, Volume XXVII. ([
                        Lincoln
                    ]: 
                        Nebraska
                     State Historical Society, 1975. Pp. xiii, 456. End maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.95.)
            Since the appearance of his Sod House Frontier in 1937, Everett Dick has impressed
                    his fellow historians with a vast array of subsequent studies. Here is another volume which will
                    surely become a classic too. It is a study of 
                        Nebraska
                     agriculture utilizing the motif of the Great American Desert, a description which was
                    applied erroneously to the area west of the one hundredth meridian during the first three quarters
                    of the nineteenth century. Dick surveys the origin of the desert myth and traces the challenges
                    facing 
                        Nebraska
                     settlers in the period following the Civil War into the early twentieth century.
            West of the one hundredth meridian settlers faced a topography increasingly devoid of trees, the lack
                    of which posed problems with housing, fuel, and fencing. The tale of constructing homes on the
                    treeless plains is fascinatingly told in the chapter on sod construction. Accompanying photographs
                    of sodbusting plows, of the cutting and loading of sod bricks, and of various types of sod houses
                    illustrate the hardships and hazards associated with those early dwellings. The chapter on fencing,
                    drawn from traditional sources, examines the use of sod and osage orange for fences and discusses
                    the impact of barbed wire on the farming and cattle industries. Since timber was also in short
                    supply as a fuel source, settlers resorted to burning corn, hay, and "buffalo
                    chip." However important the sunflower was for 
                        Kansas
                    , Dick maintains that its dried stalks were never widely used as a fuel in 
                        Nebraska
                    .
            The lack of timber explains why settlers in this region became early advocates of tree culture. One
                    of 
                        Nebraska
                    's  contributions to the national heritage
                    of the 
                        United States
                     is the Arbor Day festival, first celebrated in that state in 1872. So zealous were
                    Nebraskans in their sylvan devotion that the legislature in 1873 passed a law protecting trees:
                    "In those gun-toting days in 
                        Nebraska
                    , if you had something against your neighbor, it was safer to whip out your gun and
                    shoot him than to cut down his trees. You could plead self-defense when you shot someone, and often
                    a killer got away scot-free; but no such subterfuge could be claimed by a tree mutilator. It was the
                    penitentiary for him, according to the law" (p. 120).
            Dick differs with Walter Prescott Webb's view that the windmill is best identified with
                    ranchers on the Great Plains; rather, his research on 
                        Nebraska
                     suggests that the prairie farmer deserves the credit for popularizing these devices. On
                    another controversial point for which extant data are confusing, Dick contends that the temporary
                    decline of settlement in 
                        Nebraska
                     during the period from 1873 to 1877 owed more to the national economic depression than
                    to the local grasshopper scourge. The volume concludes with an incisive analysis of irrigation and
                    its effect on 
                        Nebraska
                    's rural economy up through the recent 1950s.
            In summary, the research for this volume is impressive, and it is written in a refreshingly exciting
                    style. The book is a handsome addition to the 
                  
                            Nebraska
                         State Historical Society Publications series as well as to the general history
                    of the frontier and Great Plains. It is truly a definitive study in which Dick and the society can
                    take pride.
            
               
                  
                            Texas
                         A & M University, College Station
            
            David E. Schob
         
         
            
               A Ghetto Takes Shape: Black 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1870–1930. By Kenneth L. Kusmer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1976. Pp. xiv, 305. Notes, tables, figures, maps, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $12.95.)
            Rare are those studies which successfully bridge the varied specialty areas in American historical
                    research. Kenneth L. Kusmer's A Ghetto Takes Shape is such a book. It is
                    a valuable study on a city long neglected by urban historians. At the same time it makes an
                    important contribution  to the field of black history. Following
                    the approach established by Allan Spear in Black 
                            Chicago
                        
                (1967), Kusmer develops a broad comparative framework within which he
                    clarifies the origins and rise of 
                        Cleveland
                    's black community. He retains, however, a sharp focus in discussing the
                    details of that story.
            After a brief introduction to pre-1870 black 
                        Cleveland
                    , Kusmer divides his book into two large sections. The first, entitled "The
                    Black Community in Transition, 1870–1915," explores such key topics as
                    residence, occupation, income, and civil status among black residents during a period of growing
                    uncertainty. By tracing shifts in black leadership, Kusmer illustrates how changing economic
                    conditions and social attitudes on race undermined the traditionally conservative and
                    assimilationist Negro middle class of 
                        Cleveland
                    . By examining closely the important members of the old elite, such as Charles W.
                    Chesnutt, John P. Green, and Harry C. Smith, Kusmer illuminates the values and tactics of this
                    earlier leadership group. He shows how these individuals were then "challenged by a new
                    group of black businessmen and politicians who relied primarily upon Negro patronage for their
                    success" (p. 140). The newer leaders, whose actual differences with the older leadership
                    were not that great, nevertheless accepted the emerging social and cultural separatism forced on the
                    black community by deepening white hostility.
            In the second half of the book Kusmer documents the impact of black southern migration on black 
                        Cleveland
                    . The vital socioeconomie statistics are again analyzed, but this time they are examined
                    in relation to a period of rapid population growth and expanding neighborhoods. In a final chapter
                    Kusmer discusses the question of leadership in a ghetto, which is what the 
                        Cleveland
                     black community became after fifteen years of demographic and residential
                    consolidation. He concludes that the new conditions represented a paradox for black Clevelanders:
                    greater group solidarity in the midst of broader social and cultural isolation.
            This work has many attractive features. Kusmer provides extensive comparisons between blacks in 
                        Cleveland
                     and other cities. He also compares similarities and differences between ethnic and
                    black Clevelanders. Twenty-eight statistical tables, largely dealing with occupational data, and a
                         bibliographical essay further strengthen this
                    book's claim for serious attention by all those interested in the black urban experience.
            
               
                  
                            Georgetown
                         University, 
                  
                            Washington
                        , D.C.
            
            Ronald M. Johnson
         
         
            
               Eugene V. Debs. By Harold W. Currie. (
                        Boston
                    : Twayne Publishers, 1976. Pp. 157. Notes and references, selected bibliography, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Based primarily on Debs' published writings, Eugene V. Debs is a
                    contribution to Twayne's 
                            United States
                         Authors series. Harold W. Currie disclaims any attempt at producing another
                    full dress biography of the Socialist leader. His purpose is "to provide for the reader a
                    brief but comprehensive discussion of Debs's ideas, both major and minor, with emphasis on
                    those ideas and attitudes that are most significant in understanding the man and his
                    thought" (p. 10). Currie points out that Debs was not only a great orator but also a
                    prolific writer. Despite the extent of his writings, however, he neither sought nor earned a
                    reputation as a party intellectual or theoretician. His essays were, as Currie phrases it,
                    "colorful, direct, uncomplicated, aimed at the common man rather than at the
                    scholar" (p. 7). With the possible exception of Julius A. Wayland, editor of the Appeal to Reason, Debs probably did more to popularize socialism among American
                    workers than any man who ever lived. What he wrote, however much it lacked intellectual depth,
                    therefore remains of interest to students of the past.
            
               Eugene V. Debs is organized topically—each chapter dealing with a
                    particular aspect of the Socialist leader's thought or career. Chapter four, for example,
                    entitled "The Debs Style," is subdivided into "The Orator,"
                    "Debs's Use of Language," "Debs's Sense of
                    History," and "The Optimist." Chapter five, "Socialism and the
                    Labor Movement," contains "Socialist Ideas," "Debs and
                    Violence," and "Debs and the Labor Movement." There is nothing in the
                    volume that could not have been learned from Ray Ginger's The Bending
                    Cross (1949), but, in fairness, Currie does not claim otherwise. The book is well written, and
                    its careful organization makes it a convenient guide to Debs' views on most of the
                    important issues of his time.
            
            The shortcoming of the book is that the author has tried to do too much in too few pages. This
                    results in a superficial treatment of everything. Too often Currie presents Debs' views
                    without attempting to explain, in any depth, why the Socialist leader held these views or why his
                    position changed over a period of years. For example, in four short paragraphs Currie chronicles
                    Debs' transition from a conservative trade unionist opposed to the use of the strike and
                    boycott to a labor leader who conceded that such weapons were a necessary part of labor's
                    arsenal (pp. 20–21). Yet Currie offers no insights as to why this important change took
                    place in Debs' thinking. Surely readers could expect any addition to the mountain of
                    published material on Debs to offer more than an uninspired repetition of well known facts.
                    Currie's excuse is that it was not his intention "to assess the sources of
                    Debs's ideas, for to do so would necessitate another book-length study" (p. 10).
                    While this may be true, a simple cataloging of Debs' views seems pointless. It would have
                    been better if Currie had selected a single theme (Debs and the labor movement, Debs and industrial
                    unionism) and developed it at length.
            Finally, Currie's assertion that the "fundamental principles behind Debsian
                    Socialism and Americanism are the same, for both profess a belief in equality, individual freedom
                    and democracy" (p. 9) defines both concepts so broadly as to rob them of all meaning.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Errol W. Stevens
         
         
            
               Ambiguous Imperialism: American Foreign Policy and Domestic Politics at the Turn of
                        the Century. By Goran Rystad. (Stockholm, 
                        Sweden
                    : Esselte Studium, 1975. Pp. 365. Tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, Sw. Crs 58:.)
            In this volume Goran Rystad examines American politics from adoption of the peace treaty of 1899,
                    which concluded the Spanish American War and in which the 
                        United States
                     acquired a small colonial empire, through the presidential election of 1900, when
                    imperialism occupied a prominent place in political rhetoric. He seeks to determine if foreign
                    policy was the foremost issue in this election, what effect foreign affairs had on politics, and
                    what impact politics  had on foreign policy. He gives special
                    attention to politics in Indiana, a state which at that time was pivotal in the national election.
            The book is a detailed, at times almost tedious, examination of politicians and politicking, state
                    party conventions and platforms, leading to the national conventions and the presidential contest
                    between William Jennings Bryan and William McKinley. The author shows that
                    imperialism—and politics—was indeed ambiguous and confusing. People supported
                    or opposed imperialism for many reasons, and conflicts often developed within the parties. Democrats
                    in one state sometimes sounded like Republicans in another. Although the Democratic party attacked
                    imperialism as the "paramount issue" in the campaign, Bryan did not propose
                    immediate relinquishment of the Philippine Islands or 
                        Puerto Rico
                    , and in parts of the country he scarcely mentioned foreign policy. Because of
                    Bryan's endorsement of free coinage of silver, some dedicated anti-imperialists ended up
                    voting for the other party. The Republican party supported recent American expansion (Republicans
                    would not concede that it was imperialism), but many campaigners preferred to stress economic issues
                    and Bryan's stand on currency. Partly because of these confused circumstances, partly
                    perhaps because of a narrow vision of foreign policy, Americans decided to vote on grounds more
                    familiar than imperialism. The contest of 1900, concludes the author, "was more an election
                    for prosperity and against change than a referendum of the new foreign policy" (p. 309).
            Rystad has produced a useful volume. There are a few problems of style. Writing is occasionally
                    repetitious; sentences frequently are cumbersome; here and there a word is not used
                    properly—problems doubtless fostered by the difficulty of translation. The introduction
                    and first chapter provide excellent summaries of reasons for and interpretations of American
                    expansion. The author maintains admirable objectivity and carefully avoids conclusions not supported
                    by fact. His research is impressive and illustrates the tiresome digging needed for many topics in
                    American history. Rystad has undertaken the difficult task of determing attitudes at a time when
                    there was little in the way of opinion surveys. He examined several manuscript collections and
                    scholarly or semipopular journals; research in newspapers was massive. As a result one finds a great
                    deal  about attitudes of politicians, newsmen, and leaders from
                    other segments of society—no complete coverage of public opinion but probably the best
                    that could be done. Readers interested in Indiana will enjoy the attention given that state and the
                    generous mention of counties, small towns, and newspapers with which they might identify.
            This book does not determine if Americans in 1900 supported imperialism, but it does suggest some
                    meaningful generalizations about politics and diplomacy. Faced with an issue even as important as
                    imperialism, the people were less concerned with foreign affairs than with domestic issues which
                    affected their immediate interests. Politicians did not hesitate to use foreign policy as a
                    political device to be trumpeted or left alone as the situation seemed to indicate. However
                    uncertain the decision in 1900, so the author concludes, imperialism had attracted so much
                    attention, left so much doubt, that the government was in no mood to embark on future colonialist
                    ventures.
            
                    Western 
                            Michigan
                         University, 
                            Kalamazoo
                        
               
                
            Ross Gregory
         
         
            Papers of Aaron Burr Desired
            The New-York Historical Society would appreciate any information concerning letters to or from Aaron
                    Burr or any documents written by Burr. Such materials will be included in a definitive microfilm
                    edition of Burr papers to be published by the society. Please send any information to Mary-Jo Kline,
                    Editor, The Papers of Aaron Burr, New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West,
                            
                  New York, New York
                10024.
         
         
            Book Reviewers
            Readers interested in having their names added to the list of potential book reviewers for the Indiana Magazine of History are invited to inform the editor. The prospective
                    reviewer should enclose a 4 x 6 card indicating name, address, and specific areas and topics of
                    competence and interest. Additional information that might be provided, if relevant, includes degree
                    granting institution, current academic or professional affiliation, and publications.
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               1861 Atlas By Townships from the Map of 
                     Perry
                            County, Indiana
                  
               . Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, 1975. Maps, illustrations, index. Paperbound, $8.00.)
                    In 1861 the 
                  Perry County, Indiana
               , commissioners ordered ten copies of a cadastral map of the
                    county and its seven townships. Some years ago two local residents, Bert Fenn and William E.
                    Kreisle, combined the best portions of two of these maps, each 351/2 inches by 4411/2 inches in
                    size. It is from this "combined" map that this publication has been made. An index
                    to names of landowners has been compiled by Publisher R. T. Mayhill, who explains that magnifying
                    glasses and "research experience" were used in identifying almost illegible names
                    from the 1861 listing of land owners (preface). Among the 
                        Perry County
                     landowners noted are various members of the Esarey and Esary families in Oil
                    Township—in which Hoosier historian Logan Esarey was born. The 
                        Tell City
                     Historical Society sponsored this interesting and useful atlas, but its publication
                    under the auspices of R. T. Mayhill is a further example of Mayhill's continuing
                    contributions to Knights- town.
            
               Barns and Other Outbuildings on Indiana Farms. Edited by Linda Bauer, Doug Jewel,
                    and Jon Turpin. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, in cooperation with the Society of Indiana
                    Pioneers, 1975. Pp. 56. Illustrations. Pamphlet, $1.00.) Most previous publications by
                    the Indiana Junior Historical Society concerning Indiana architecture have dealt with a particular
                    town or locality. This pamphlet surveys and illustrates barns and other outbuildings (apparently
                    buildings other than houses and privies) which were found in 
                  Benton, DeKalb
               , Scott, and Jefferson
                    counties and which are of pre-1920 vintage. The dozens of pictures, in black and white, are mainly
                    of barns; also included, however, are hog houses, hen houses, corncribs, and sheds. For each item
                    information is generally given about the county in which it can be found, its approximate road
                    location, and its original and present owner. The numerous pictures are themselves an interesting
                    and useful record.
            
               
                  ∗ Unless otherwise indicated all review notices have been
                        written by Donald F. Carmony, former editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
            
            
               Twice a Boy. By Charles F. Bales (
                        Terre Haute
                    , Ind.: Sycamore Press, 1976. Pp. xi, 127. Illustrations, genealogy. Paperbound,
                    $3.84.) This is one man's memory of rural life in Indiana during the first seven
                    decades of the twentieth century, most of it spent in 
                        Morgan and Monroe counties
                    . Bales taught in various one room schools, installing a basketball goal at each. In
                    addition to his career in education, he recounts with pleasure his experiences as a farmer and as a
                    township trustee. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Hoosier School-Master: A Novel. By Edward Eggleston. Reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Hart Publishing Company, 1976. Pp. 224. Illustrations. $6.95.) This reprint
                    of a classic work in Indiana literature, first published in 1871 and since translated into several
                    foreign languages, provides a melodramatic picture of rural life in southern Indiana during the
                    midnineteenth century. Eggleston's fiction had great effect in creating the popular image
                    of Hoosiers—an image not all Indiana residents found accurate. James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Old 
                            Chicago
                         Houses. By John Drury. Reprint. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xvii, 518. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $6.95.)
                    Originally published as a series in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News, Old 
                            Chicago
                         Houses initially appeared as a book in 1941. It offers one hundred pictures of
                    what at the time were outstanding old houses of 
                        Chicago
                    . According to Drury houses were chosen because all but one were of the nineteenth
                    century, they represented examples of architecture at various periods, they were neighborhood
                    landmarks, or they were once homes of locally or nationally famous persons (p. x). The text mainly
                    consists of brief sketches focused on the houses pictured. The rapidity with which such houses often
                    disappear is suggested by the observation in an introductory note that a house by house check
                    revealed that only thirty-four of the one hundred houses listed in the 1941 edition were found on
                    the same location when this reprint was prepared. In short, roughly two of these houses, on an
                    average, disappeared each year between 1941 and 1975.
            
               Architecture in Old 
                            Chicago
                        
               . By Thomas E. Tallmadge. Reprint. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1975.  Pp. xv, 218. Notes, illustrations,
                    index. Paperbound, $3.95.) Completed by friends of Tallmadge following the
                    latter's death in a train accident, this volume concerns the development of architecture in 
                        Chicago
                     to 1893. It includes much historical context, often detail as well, and its emphasis is
                    mainly on public structures. Tallmadge, himself an architect who was a specialist in church
                    architecture, gives information about construction techniques ranging from how American pioneers
                    notched logs to make the corners of log cabins to the "skeleton construction" plan
                    for building skyscrapers. A limited number of illustrations is used, but they are less significant
                    than the text itself.
            
               Governor Charles Robinson of 
                            Kansas
                        
               . By Don W. Wilson. (Lawrence: The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1975. Pp. ix, 214. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $11.00.)
                    Robinson, a New Englander, gained prominence as a leader of radical antislavery forces in 
                        Kansas
                     during the 1850s. Elected governor in 1861, he later embraced a variety of third party
                    movements, giving him a role in 
                        Kansas
                     politics similar to that which George W. Julian played in Indiana in the same period.
                    Wilson has produced an informative and readable volume, a scholarly, concisely written tome. Persons
                    interested in the important role which James H. Lane, former Hoosier politician, played in 
                        Kansas
                     in the 1850s and 1860s should consult this book.
            
               The Character of the Country: The 
                            Iowa
                         Diary of James L. Broderick, 1876-1877. Edited by Loren N. Horton. (
                        Iowa City
                    : 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Department, Division of the State Historical Society, 1976. Pp. 136.
                    Illustrations, notes, maps, index. Paperbound, $2.75.) This is a well edited version of a
                    diary kept by an English visitor to 
                  Dubuque, Iowa
               , in 1876-1877. Almost daily entries provide
                    information and insight into the people and events of nineteenth century 
                        Iowa
                    . James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The American Revolution and the West Indies. Edited by Charles W. Toth. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1975. Pp. xi, 225. Notes. $12.95.) Although this
                    volume breaks no new ground, it does provide an important 
                    service to scholars and lay readers alike by summarizing much of what is known about the role of the
                    West Indian islands in the mainland colonies' drive for independence. The theme of the book
                    is trade and the continuing economic interdependence of the West Indies and the mainland colonies.
                    This interdependence was both a cause of the American Revolution and a guarantor of its success.
                    Moreover, by surviving both the mercantile restrictions of empire and the machinations of the
                    imperialists, the economic ties between the mainland and the West Indian islands proved just as
                    significant as ideology in hastening the decline of the European overseas empires. The book also
                    provides an important bicentennial tribute to historians of the era by successfully combining the
                    accumulated scholarship of over three quarters of a century into a story which is both readable and
                    coherent. Paul R. Lucas, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Biographical Dictionary of American Labor Leaders. Edited by Gary M. Fink. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1974. Pp. xiv, 559. Bibliography, appendixes, index.
                    $19.95.) Biographical sketches of about five hundred past and present labor leaders are
                    included in this Biographical Dictionary. Particular emphasis was given to
                    representatives of trade unions, but an effort was made to obtain a representative group of
                    "labor-oriented" politicians, editors, radicals, etc. (p. xii). The usefulness of
                    this pioneering work is enhanced by the inclusion of bibliographical material about persons
                    sketched. Unfortunately an examination of two entries uncovered some disturbing errors of fact.
                    Robert Dale Owen was not "elected to the Indiana legislature for three terms, 1832-1838;
                    defeated in 1838 and 1840, but elected to the 
                        United States
                     Congress as a Democrat in 1842 and served two terms" (p. 280). Instead, he was
                    elected to the legislature for one year terms in 1836, 1837, and 1838; for a two year term in 1851;
                    and to Congress in 1843 and 1845, serving in this body from 1843 to 1847. Further, Powers Hap-good
                    ran for governor of Indiana, not 
                        Illinois
                    , on the Socialist ticket in 1932. The bibliographical sources cited confirm the
                    inaccuracy of these items as regards Owen and Hapgood.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
