
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 57, Issue 4, pages 279-400. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:57+issue:4+year:1961&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Canal Agitation at Ohio Falls
            
            Paul Fatout⋆
            
            When Indiana became a territory in 1800, it embraced present-day 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the western half of 
                        Michigan
                    , and part of 
                        Minnesota
                    . In what is now the Hoosier state a scanty population of about three thousand clustered
                    in the southern part, hugging the Wabash River, the Whitewater, and the
                    majestic curves of the broad 
                        Ohio
                    . La Belle Rivière inspired adulation. "By far the
                    noblest river in the universe," said the Kentuckian, Henry McMurtrie.1
                    An anonymous observer, rhapsodizing upon fertile plains and lofty forests, saluted the stream:
                    "And thou beautiful 
                        Ohio
                    , the litteral [sic] boundary of this modern Paradise, shall remain an impenetrable barrier to guard this sacred land."2 Under the spell of the great river, even critical Frances Trollope forgot to
                    complain of mosquitoes, squalid villages, rowdy steamboat passengers, and the horrid American custom
                    of eating with the knife when she remarked: "Were there occasionally a ruined abbey, or
                    feudal castle, to mix the romance of real life with that of nature, the 
                        Ohio
                     would be perfect."3
            
            Magnificent to contemplate, the wide channel was also an admirable thoroughfare for commerce and
                    travelers all the way down from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , except for a rough stretch of about two miles at 
                        Louisville
                    . There, an oblique limestone ledge athwart the flow reared a twenty-two-foot dam,
                    through 
                  
                     ⋆ Paul Fatout is professor of English, Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 H. McMurtrie, Sketches of 
                                    Louisville
                                 and Its Environs (
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., 1819), 6.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and 
                                    Hamilton
                                 Gazette, September 3, 1799.
                  
                     3 Mrs. [Frances 
                                Milton
                            ] Trollope, Domestic Manners of the Americans (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1832), I, 45.
               
                     and over which the current raced at fourteen miles an hour to
                    form the "boiling place," or falls. That observant tourist, Judge James Hall, was
                    impressed by this turbulence: "The ear is stunned with the sound of rushing waters: and the
                    sight of waves dashing, and foaming, and whirling among the rocks and eddies below, is grand and
                        fearful."4
            
            Through these rapids were three channels, the best of which was on the Indiana side, known as the
                    "Indian chute" or "shoot." Navigation was possible only in high
                    water, and only by a skillful pilot able to steer through a narrow passage fifteen feet wide between
                    outcroppings capable of ripping the hull out of a boat. Even then some mariners came to grief, as in
                    the disaster of April, 1807, when three ships attempted to run the rapids on a rise. The John Atkinson "bore down for the head grand shoot and passed handsomely
                    by, rubbing the rocks two or three times," but the Rufus King and Tuscarora piled up. "The apparent perilous situation of the crews and
                    gentlemen on board was dreadful; in ships without rudders or keels tumbling from rock to rock and
                    rolling from side to side… without a possibility of being relieved from the
                        shore."5 Before the age of steam a boat was at the mercy of the
                    current; an upstream craft could get through only by paying out a line forward to some solid object
                    on shore, moving ahead hand over hand of all hands on board: a laborious method but sure unless the
                    line parted, as it sometimes did.
            Low water prevented all loaded boats, even of light draft, from negotiating the falls, and forced
                    boatmen to portage two miles between 
                        Louisville
                     and Shippingport, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Shippers paid a handsome fee for cartage of cargo and for extra hands to tow the
                    unloaded boat over to the Indian chute or to reload on another craft at the opposite end. To save
                    labor and expense, skippers needed a safe channel around the falls.
            Captain Gilbert Imlay, Revolutionary veteran and adventurer serving as deputy surveyor in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1783, took note of Ohio Falls: 
                        The fall is not more than four or five feet in the distance of a mile; so that boats of any
                            burthen may pass safely when there is a flood, but boats coming up the river must unload,
                            which inconvenience may easily 
                        
                           4 James Hall, Letters From the West (
                                        London
                                    , 1828), 186.
                        
                           5
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Western Spy and Miami Gazette, May 18, 1807.
                     
                             be removed by cutting a canal from the mouth of
                            Beargrass, the upper side of the Rapids, to below the lower reef of rocks, which is not
                            quite two miles, and the country a gentle declivity the whole way.6
                  
                    Colonel Jonathan Williams, after a reconnaissance of the Ohio River in
                    1801, concluded: 
                        That it would be easy to make a canal is probable, because there seems to be no reasonable
                            apprehension of meeting with rocks in the way… and as the whole country, above
                            these falls, to an extent of fifteen hundred miles, is interested in facilitating this
                            passage for its produce, the time may not be far distant when such a measure will be
                                adopted.7
                  
                    
            
            Early in the nineteenth century, Indiana and other citizens undertook there the first Hoosier canal
                    venture. A futile effort, confused, impeded by sectional and self-interest, it revealed that digging
                    a two-mile ditch was not so easy as the captain and the colonel had surmised. The instigator of this
                    project was General Benjamin Hovey, a land speculator from 
                        New York
                     State who visited Ohio Falls sometime in 1804. A native of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , he had at the age of seventeen faced the British regulars at 
                        Lexington
                     on that memorable April 19, 1775. After the Revolution he was a pioneer of the town of 
                        Oxford
                     in 
                  Chenango County, New York
               , where he became a judge, a brigadier general of
                    militia—from which he resigned after court martial proceedings against him—and
                    a member of the state legislature. He struck up a warm friendship with another assemblyman, Aaron
                    Burr, who probably suggested Hovey's western trip.8
            
            After looking over the ground, Hovey reported: "When I first viewed the rapids of the 
                        Ohio
                    , it was my object to open a canal on the 
                        Louisville
                     side, but on examination I discovered such advantages on the opposite side, that I at
                    once 
                  
                     6 Gilbert Imlay, A Topographical Description of the
                                Western Territory of North America (
                                London
                            , 1792), quoted in History of the Ohio Falls
                                Cities and Their Counties (2 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1882), I, 48. See also Dictionary of American Biography (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1958), IX, 461–464.
                  
                     7 Col. Jonathan Williams, Observations on the Falls of
                                the 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (n.p., n.d.), 334, William H. Smith Library of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . These observations, headed "West-Point, Oct. 4, 1806," and
                            called Extracts from the Minutes, are evidently part of a series of
                            reports, perhaps prepared for the 
                                United States
                            ' Military Philosophical Society, of which Colonel Williams was
                            president, or for the American Philosophical Society, of which he was a Fellow.
                  
                     8 See The Hovey Book (n.p., 1913),
                            150–152, 
                                New York
                             State Library, 
                                Albany
                            , N.Y.
               
                     decided in favor of it."9 Perhaps
                    he found that 
                        Louisville
                    , though larger and more prosperous than the two-year-old town of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, across the river, reaped too rich a harvest from portaging to be interested
                    in a canal. Some years later James Flint observed that because of the falls "being
                    navigable for large craft only during times of high water, 
                        Louisville
                     derives great advantage from the carrying trade."10 North
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     a settled belief was that these Kentuckians opposed change; during the early nineteenth
                    century, 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     editors berated 
                        Louisville
                     for thwarting canal efforts in that region.
            Hovey surveyed a line of about two and a half miles from the mouth of a ravine east of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     through the town to an eddy at the foot of the rapids near Clarksville. By November,
                    1804, his intentions were clear enough to induce Isaac Bowman, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , to sell town lots to him provided "the said Benjamin Hovey or his Assigns
                    shall in fact commence the Canal within One Year."11 News of
                    Hovey's intentions no doubt traveled across the river, for on December 19, 1804, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature chartered the Ohio Canal Company to cut a canal on
                    that side. Capitalized at a modest $50,000 and permitted to raise $15,000 by a
                        lottery,12 this company seemed designed for nuisance value rather than for
                    work on a construction job of unknown cost. Josiah Espy, a tourist from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , wondered "whether the Kentuckians seriously intend opening their canal, or
                    whether it is only intended to impede the process of opening one on the other
                        side.…"13
            
            
               
                  9
                        Communication from General Benjamin Hovey to His Associates, relative to Opening a
                            Canal Navigation near the Rapids of the Ohio River, with Sundry
                            Documents therein referred to Marked From No. 1 to 7 (n.p., n.d.), 3, William H. Smith
                        Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  10 Reuben Gold Thwaites (ed.), Early Western Travels,
                            1748-1846, Vol. IX, Flint's Letters From America,
                            1818–1820 (
                     Cleveland,
                                Ohio
                  , 1904), 160. On sectional
                        rivalry, see Richard C. Wade, "Urban Life in Western America," American Historical Review, LXIV (October, 1958), 19.
               
                  11 Memorandum of November 14, 1804, Hite-Bowman Papers, William H. English
                        Collection, William H. Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  12
                        History of the Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties, I,
                        215.
               
                  13 Josiah Murdoch Espy, Memorandum of a Tour Made by Josiah
                            Espy in the 
                                United States
                             of 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             and Indiana Territory in 1805 (
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ,
                        1870), 15.
            
            
            Be that as it may, Hovey went ahead. Armed with endorsements from Davis Floyd and Samuel Gwathmey, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and from Jared Mansfield, surveyor general of 
                        Ohio
                     and of Indiana Territory, he headed for 
                        Washington
                     to seek federal aid. While there, he received an enthusiastic testimonial from General
                    James Wilkinson. This flamboyant adventurer, who became a central figure in the Burr conspiracy, was
                    a dubious character. On his sinuous trail were irregularities in accounts, promotion on the strength
                    of services performed by somebody else, involvement in the Conway cabal against General 
                        Washington
                     and in the "Spanish Conspiracy" in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Still, his approval of the falls canal sensibly mentioned prospective revenue from
                    tolls and water power and expressed an enlightened hope that the canal might curb "our
                    improvidence with respect to our forests, and the destructive waste of timber" that
                    "will at an early date discourage ship building on the 
                        Ohio
                    ."14
            
            On January 17, 1805, Hovey asked Congress, on behalf of himself and his associates, for either a
                    grant of twenty-five thousand acres in Indiana or pre-emption on a hundred thousand acres for the
                    purpose of building a canal. On January 28 a Senate committee—Jonathan 
                        Dayton
                    , of 
                        New York
                    ; John Smith, of 
                        Ohio
                    ; John 
                        Brown
                    , of 
                        Kentucky
                    —reported being "impressed with the practicability of the
                    undertaking, of its vast benefit and importance to our whole country," yet withheld a
                    specific recommendation because the memorialists, "although believed to be highly
                    respectable in point of numbers, character and property, have not yet been regularly organized and
                        incorporated.…"15 Whereupon a meeting of associates at
                    Stelle's Tavern in 
                        Washington
                     resolved that Hovey, Wilkinson, and General John Patterson draw up a petition for a
                    charter and present it to the first Indiana territorial legislature, which was to convene in 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 29. The meeting also resolved that work on the canal should be started soon,
                    that expenses be shared by associates, and that, pending incorporation, the board of directors
                    should be: Hovey, Daniel Hudson, Josiah Stephens, 
                  
                     14
                            Communication from General Benjamin Hovey to His Associates, 7.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 12, 9–10.
               
                     William Croghan, and Davis Floyd; Samuel Gwathmey was named as
                        treasurer.16
            
            Within six months after Hovey left 
                        Washington
                    , the three members of the Senate committee had joined forces with him. Wilkinson said
                    that only because of his urging "Mr. Brown was prevailed on, under a degree of apparent
                    indifference, bordering on reluctance, to represent on his own behalf, and that of such citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                     as might be disposed to embark in the scheme, after a charter was
                        obtained.…"17
                    
                        Dayton
                     said that he "yielded to the urgent solicitations of Mr. Browne, General
                    Wilkinson, Hovey and others" and intended to visit Ohio Falls,
                    "when I shall be better able to consider the whole subject, its importance and
                        advantages."18 Another recruit was the former president of the
                    Senate and vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    , Aaron Burr. The mixed motives of these men are impossible to disentangle, though hope
                    of gain was a probable one for all of them. Jonathan 
                        Dayton
                     owned two hundred and fifty thousand acres between the Big and Little Miami
                        rivers, a holding that internal improvements would make more valuable. Otherwise, as
                    a close friend of Burr, he was deeply involved in the cloudy affairs of the Burr conspiracy. Senator
                    John Smith, speculator and trader, was also an active Burr partisan. Both senators were later
                    indicted for treason but, like other defendants, escaped conviction. Of the senatorial trio John 
                        Brown
                     was probably least involved, yet he was no stranger to intrigue, having collaborated
                    with Wilkinson in the Spanish conspiracy. 
                        Brown
                     remained friendly to Burr throughout this disturbing episode, but he professed to be a
                    strong Jefferson man, and he was not indicted for treason.19
            
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 3. General John Patterson was a congressman from 
                            New York
                        . Josiah Stephens was said to be one of the most active canal promoters. William
                        Croghan, a major in the Revolution, was a brother-in-law of George Rogers Clark. Samuel
                        Gwathmey, another Clark brother-in-law, was one of the surveyors and trustees of 
                            Jeffersonville
                        . On expenses, Wilkinson said that "to commence the operation, the parties
                        [how many is not stated] agreed to advance 300 dollars each." See letter from James
                        Wilkinson, written February 20, 1806, to the Corydon Indiana Gazette,
                        reprinted in 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Liberty Hall and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Mercury, April 14, 1806.
               
                  17
                        
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Liberty Hall and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Mercury, April 14, 1806.
               
                  18 Jonathan 
                            Dayton
                         to William Simmons, June 2, 1805, in General James Wilkinson, Memoirs
                            of My Own Times (3 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1816), II, 275. Dr. Joseph Browne was a brother-in-law of Aaron Burr.
               
                  19 See Thomas Perkins Abernethy, The Burr Conspiracy (
                            New York
                        , 1954), 22, 27, 28, 39, 98, 157–158, 240, 248, 262.
            
            
            As for Burr himself, neither the evidence at his trial in 1807, nor the scholarship of a hundred
                    years has fully clarified his purposes. In his Memoirs Wilkinson said: 
                        I must… at that time [1805], have believed, that Burr was about to engage, in the
                            peaceful pursuits of civil life. The value of the contemplated canal, depended upon the
                            continuation of the peace of the western country. In times of civil commotion, it would have
                            been worth nothing to the stockholders; and if Burr had at that time, other views, and only
                            held up this scheme to the public, to lull suspicion, while his plans were maturing, he
                            carefully concealed his design from me.20
                  
                    Perhaps. But historians have generally distrusted Wilkinson's recollections. In the
                    past century, verdicts on Burr have represented him both as a maligned patriot guiltless of sinister
                    design and as a traitor bent on disrupting the Union.
            Whatever his intentions, an impression of stagey conspiracy was in the air. Letters written in
                    cipher, cryptic remarks, and mysterious movements created uneasy suspicion.
                    "Burr," said 
                        Washington
                     Irving, "was full of petty mystery; he made a mystery of
                        everything."21 A 
                        Cincinnati
                     news story of November, 1806, reflected tension in its report of two boats descending
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    , loaded with French muskets and ordnance and manned by French crews who passed every
                    town in the dark of night. "Burr's arriving here on the same evening,"
                    said the paper, "gives it rather a squally appearance."22 The same issue headed "Ominous" the story of "a
                    gentleman, apparently an officer of rank," who "declared in this town a day or two
                    past, that col. Burr had been noticed, and would be required in a very short time to account to the 
                        United States
                     for his conduct."23
            
            In this atmosphere of distrustful uncertainty Burr, 
                  Dayton, Brown
               , Smith, and
                    Wilkinson joined the Ohio Falls canal enterprise. Thereafter General Hovey
                    became a secondary figure, no more than a superintendent taking orders from his 
                        Washington
                     associates. At the outset he had had serious intentions, having asked Benjamin Latrobe,
                    famous 
                        Washington
                     architect, to be chief engineer of the falls canal and to hire five hundred men.
                    Latrobe, however, did no more than take preliminary steps, and he did not visit the site.24
                    
                  
                     20 Wilkinson, Memoirs of My Own Times, II, 274.
                  
                     21 Pierre M. Irving, Life and Letters of 
                                    Washington
                                 Irving (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1862), IV, 301.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and Miami Gazette, November 25, 1806.
                  
                            23
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     24 Abernethy, The Burr Conspiracy, 20.
               
                     No evidence has been found to show that either he or anyone
                    else produced a plan or estimate of cost. In the spring of 1805 Burr and Wilkinson stopped at
                        Ohio Falls, where Wilkinson was said to have talked noisily about making a
                    fortune out of the canal, to have expressed doubts of Hovey's integrity, and voiced a hope
                    of enlisting the support of Governor William Henry Harrison.25 But the Governor
                    remained aloof, and whether Burr or Wilkinson took at the time any practical steps to further the
                    canal scheme is not known.
            Yet some among the canal associates must have bestirred themselves, for on August 6 when Hovey
                    presented to the Indiana legislature his petition for incorporation, it responded with a bill
                    approved on August 24 incorporating the Indiana Canal Company. A long act of incorporation implied
                    that canal men or lawmakers or both had given careful thought to the business. The law specified
                    that: the capital stock be twenty thousand shares at $50 each; the company might accept
                    from the 
                        United States
                     or from any state donations of money or land; the company might invest any part of its
                    capital in the public debt of the 
                        United States
                     or of any state; when $100,000 in gold or silver had been accumulated, the
                    company was entitled to issue promissory notes not to exceed double the funds on hand; work on the
                    canal commence within nine months from the passage of the act and be completed by December 1, 1811;
                    the board of directors be: George Rogers Clark, John 
                        Brown
                    , Jonathan 
                        Dayton
                    , Aaron Burr, Benjamin Hovey, Davis Floyd, Josiah Stephens, William Croghan, John
                    Gwathmey, John Harrison, Marston G. Clark, and Samuel C. Vance.26
            
            
               
                  25 Extract from Captain George Peter's Deposition,"
                        Wilkinson, Memoirs of My Own Times, II, Appendix No. LXVII, n.p.
               
                  26 See The Laws of the Indiana Territory,
                            1801–1806, Inclusive (Paoli, Ind., 1886), 94–108; Gayle
                        Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker (eds.), Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana
                            Territory, 1805–1815 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1950), 63–64, 89, 94. George Rogers Clark, Indian fighter and
                        brigadier general in the Continental army, was best known for military exploits in the
                        territory, one of most dramatic being the march on 
                            Kaskaskia
                         and 
                            Vincennes
                         with a small force that captured those places from the British in
                        1778–1779. John Gwathmey laid out the town of 
                            Jeffersonville
                        . John Cleves Symmes Harrison, son of Governor William Henry Harrison, was a
                        receiver of public money at the land office in 
                            Vincennes
                        . Marston G. Clark, of 
                            Salem
                        , having served under General Anthony 
                            Wayne
                        , had also been major of militia and aide to General Harrison in the 
                            Tippecanoe
                         campaign. Samuel C. Vance was proprietor and prominent citizen of 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        .
            
            
            Of that group another Burr ally was Davis Floyd. A successful lawyer and tavern keeper, he was a
                    political favorite of Governor Harrison, but lost favor because of his part in the Burr conspiracy.
                    As Burr's 
                        Jeffersonville
                     agent, Floyd, together with Robert A. New, recruited two boatloads of men for the
                    filibuster and collected about forty muskets. Later indicted for treason, he escaped by a nolle
                    prosequi; locally indicted for high misdemeanor, he was convicted, fined $10, and jailed
                    for three hours. If he lost caste with the Governor, he remained popular with legislators who, while
                    he was under indictment, elected him clerk of the house.27 "What could
                    posses [sic] the men who voted for him?" asked the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun: "Surely they were bewitched, bewatled or
                    discomgarigomfrigated. Its clear enough they were infected with the Burrite mania."28 That puzzled comment shows the strength of the Burrite mania, which stirred
                    powerful feelings for and against. Aided by staunch friends and assailed by bitter enemies, Burr
                    moved continually in an aura of glamour and brimstone.
            Perhaps Burr took advantage of the liberal canal charter to induce company directors to organize a
                    bank for issuing promissory notes and to buy stock in the 
                        Kentucky
                     Insurance Company, from which he negotiated a loan of $25,000.29 Possibly these moves were not intended to advance the canal but only to further
                    Burr's purposes, whatever they were. Nevertheless, if beneath the surface of canal affairs
                    were the muffled indirection and murky motives typical of Burr, some directors and onlookers
                    believed that the company expected to dig a canal. By October, 1805, subscriptions had risen to
                    $120,000 "subscribed by men of the first standing in the Union,"
                    according to Josiah Espy. He went on to say: 
                        When the canal is finished the company intend erecting… water works, for which
                            they say the place is highly calculated. From these it is expected that more wealth will
                            flow into the coffers of the company 
                        
                           27 See Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2
                                    vols., 
                              Dayton, Ohio
                           , 1928), I, 202; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1919), I, 298; Abernethy, The Burr Conspiracy, 72,
                                    88, 115, 240, 263. Robert A. New became the first Indiana secretary of state in
                                    1816.
                        
                           28
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Western Sun, November 25, 1807. For a detailed account of the Burr
                                    episode in Indiana, see Isaac J. Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in
                                    Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXV (December,
                                    1929), 257–280.
                        
                           29 See Abernethy, The Burr Conspiracy,
                                    22–23; Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXV (December, 1929), 265.
                     
                             than from the passage of vessels.… If these
                            expectations should be realized, there remains but little doubt the falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             will become the centre of wealth of the Western World.30
                  
                    That rosy forecast was typical of the optimism of ardent internal improvements men, yet how
                    many company directors shared it is impossible to say.
            The Kentucky canal company countered with a manifesto dismissing
                    Hovey's plan as misguided: 
                        As nature has not given a single advantage to the opposite, over the side of 
                                Louisville
                            , 'tis presumed, that those advantages which he discovered so suddenly
                            will as suddenly disappear…. to the preeminence of the side of 
                                Kentucky
                            , all competition must yield, however mighty may be the struggle of
                                speculation.31
                  
                    Surveys were made on the south bank, but no channel was cut on either side, nor is there
                    available evidence that anybody lifted a hand to dig one shovelful of earth. As a canal and power
                    project, the Indiana effort was a fiasco. General Hovey, who had put into the company a good deal of
                    his own money, retired in disgust and settled somewhere near Lake Erie, as if he could not face
                    returning defeated to his home town of 
                  Oxford,
                            New York
               .32 He seems
                    to have been one promoter whose mind was set on a canal, but who could not prevent Burrites from
                    seizing control. Burr was soon enmeshed in complications that forced the canal company into the
                    background. What he had expected of it, besides money, is no more clear than his expectations in
                    other inscrutable strategems.
            After the collapse at Ohio Falls, Hoosiers regarded internal improvements with
                    an indifference that looked like inertia. A 
                        Vincennes
                     citizen addressed a chiding letter "To the Friends of Improvement":
                        
                        There is an apathy pervading this country in every thing that regards its improvement, that
                            is astonishing. Intersected with fine navigable streams, possessing a productive soil, and a
                            delightful climate, it is susceptable [sic] of as great and rapid
                            improvement, as any other in the union.… Not an article of our surplus produce is
                            purchased for 
                        
                           30 Espy, Memorandum of a Tour… in
                                        1805, 14.
                        
                           31
                                    Proceedings of the Managers of the Ohio Canal Co., 
                                            Louisville
                                        , Sept. 11, 1805 (
                                        Lexington
                                    , Ky., 1805), 15, 19.
                        
                           32 See The Hovey Book, 152.
                     
                             exportation; and our money is exchanged for paltry
                            gew-gaws, that, not unfrequently, render our appearance ridiculous—some say there
                            is no produce to be purchased—I fear this is too much the case— I have
                            often seen flour, bacon, and large quantities of whiskey brought from 
                                Kentucky
                            .33
                  
                    The rebuke was timely, yet the spirit of enterprise would not slumber indefinitely in a
                    fruitful region attractive to settlers. They came from the south and floated by the boatload down
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            In January, 1815, Loammi Baldwin, a 
                        Boston
                     engineer, surveyed the 
                        Kentucky
                     route for the Ohio Canal Company. His estimate of
                    $240,000 convinced Kentuckians that their side was preferable to the Indiana side.34
                    
                        Cincinnati
                     papers implied that Baldwin's estimate was biased, and the Western Spy, pointing out the rock-cutting necessary on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side, concluded that "the Indiana side must therefore have the advantage in
                    point of economy as well as eligibility."35 The 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , Reporter argued for opening the river channel by
                    blasting out the rock ledges: 
                        Gentlemen of the best information, who have resided at 
                                Louisville
                            , estimate the expense of opening the channel on the Indiana side at less than sixty thousand dollars, and probably not half
                            that amount! Some of the Pilots… are of opinion that a channel which would be
                            navigable at all seasons, might be opened for less than ten thousand
                                dollars!36
                  
                    This idea did not at the moment find favor, and the canal situation remained muddled.
            In the sectional wrangling the principal antagonists were 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . But Indiana internal improvements sentiment, if temporarily stalled, was about to
                    gather head. When the territory became the nineteenth state in 1816, the population had increased to
                    well over sixty-five thousand, and towns were increasing in number and size. Corydon, territorial
                    capital and first state capital, had an imposing limestone courthouse forty feet square that housed
                    the legislature. During sessions the town might be crowded by as many as eighty visitors. 
                        Jeffersonville
                     had some fifty 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, March 25, 1809.
                  
                     34
                            Niles Weekly Register, XI (February 22, 1817), 432; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, May 9, 1817.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, March 28, 1817.
                  
                     36
                            
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , Reporter, n.d., reprinted in 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, December 20, 1816.
               
                     houses, a dozen stores, and two taverns. 
                        New Albany
                    , its younger but faster-growing neighbor, was larger and busier; on the ways there was
                    the 
                  
                            Ohio
                        , first steamboat to be built in this region.37 Around 
                        Vevay
                    , a picturesque village of brick dwellings adorned with climbing roses and honeysuckle,
                    Swiss families under the benevolent patriarchy of John James Dufour cultivated twenty-five hundred
                    acres of vineyards that produced vintages prized by such connoisseurs as Henry 
                        Clay
                    . "We principally remarked the blue or Cape grape," said Timothy
                    Flint, "and the Madeira grape. The wine of the former has been compared to the Claret of
                        Bordeaux."38 The county there was appropriately named 
                        Switzerland
                    .
            
               
                        Brookville
                    , county seat of 
                        Franklin County
                     on the Whitewater River, had about seventy frame houses and
                    "a very civil & commodious Inn," according to Enoch Honeywell, a traveler
                    who stopped there over a month on a leisurely journey from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    . He also said: 
                        Land for a considerable distance round here is verry level, rich & handsome timbered
                            with beach, maple, black walnut, hickory, oak… improved farms worth from
                            $6 to $10 per acre, thence rode across the woods… to
                            Conners ville… no road except the one which I crossed, the people are chiefly
                            south Carolinians, but they are poor farmers & an ignorant indolent set, though
                            verry clever & friendly.39
                  
                    At Harmony, settled by Harmonists under the leadership of George Rapp, French horns awakened
                    communal workers who, dressed like 
                        Norman
                     peasants, marched to the wheat harvest behind a brass band. Travelers, who made a point
                    of visiting this communistic colony, remarked upon its industry, flourishing vineyards, and wool
                    manufactory that produced fine merino cloth. One Britisher recorded pleased surprise at 
                  
                     37 See Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 288, 295;
                            Thwaites, Early Western Travels, 1748–1846, IX, 164; Harlow
                            Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints
                                from Books of Travel, Letters, and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, [Vol. III]; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1916), 46–47, 157; History of the Ohio
                                    Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 147–148.
                  
                     38 Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers,
                            155–156, 449; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana: From its
                                Exploration to 1850 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1915), 240; Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred and Fifty
                                Years of American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , Ill., 1931), I, 257–258.
                  
                     39 Enoch Honeywell Diary, June 8, July 29, 1816. This diary, which
                            Honeywell kept from 1815–1820, is in the Manuscripts Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     finding order, cleanliness, and high quality home-brewed porter
                    and beer.40
            
            The spirit of enterprise was not dead in Indiana, but only collecting itself. If some farmers were
                    ignorant and indolent, if some distillers could not produce more whiskey than they needed
                    themselves, the Indiana potential was yet good. With the coming of statehood, Ohio
                    Falls canaling got its second wind. By the time Governor Jonathan Jennings delivered his
                    message to the first state legislature on November 7, 1816, Hoosier canal advocates were ready for
                    another try. This time they were mainly residents of 
                        Clark County
                    , they were not diverted by conspiratorial plots, and they plainly intended to dig a
                    canal. The leaders were John Bigelow and Samuel Beach. On January 3, 1817, they obtained from the
                    legislature a charter for the Ohio Canal Company to be incorporated with a
                    capital stock of $1,000,000, twenty thousand shares at $50 each. Liberal
                    provisions conferred power of eminent domain, allowed the company to double the capital, permitted
                    it to receive donations from the 
                        United States
                     or from any state, exempted the property from taxation until completion of the canal,
                    and specified that the job be finished by December 1, 1822. A less liberal provision fixed by
                    legislative action definite canal tolls. The act named as directors Bigelow, Beach, James Lemon,
                    Samuel Gwathmey, James Scott, Nathaniel Scribner, and Nathan Cromwell.41 The
                    directors resolved: that work should start when five thousand shares had been sold, that an agent
                    and three commissioners oversee sales wherever books were opened, that not over a thousand shares be
                    subscribed at any one place without instructions from the board of directors.42
            
            
               
                  40 Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                        1748–1846, Vol. X (
                     Cleveland,
                                Ohio
                  , 1904), 98–100; ibid., 53; John S. Duss, "Harmonie on the 
                            Wabash
                         1815–1825," The Harmonists (
                            Harrisburg
                        , Pa., 1943), 36–61; Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early
                            Travelers, 162.
               
                  41 Indiana, Laws (1816–1817),
                        219–228; Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives, 1st
                        Sess. (1816–1817), 118; Indiana Journal of the Senate, 1st Sess.
                        (1816–1817), 88. James Lemon, a 
                            Clark County
                         justice of the peace, was a popular militia officer who had served under George
                        Rogers Clark. James Scott, known as an able lawyer and good scholar, had been in the territorial
                        legislature; he was a member of the first state general assembly from 
                            Wayne County
                        , and a delegate to the convention that framed the first state constitution.
                        Nathaniel Scribner was one of three brothers from 
                            New York
                         who founded 
                            New Albany
                        . Nathan Cromwell was a lawyer from 
                            Daviess County
                        .
               
                  42
                        
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Liberty Hall and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Gazette, March 24, 1817.
            
            
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     exuberantly hailed the new company. The town was the right place for action. Called "the hot bed of projects,"
                    
                        Cincinnati
                     was described as a city where "three citizens never meet but one or other
                    immediately offers a book and pen for subscription to some new `project.'"43 Its vigor, public spirit, and men of means augured well for the canal
                    company. Books were opened there in March, 1817, under the supervision of three prominent citizens
                    as commissioners: Dr. Daniel Drake, Ethan Stone, and Isaac G. Burnet.44
                    Prospective buyers found, however, that the proposed canal did not offer enough inducements to
                    attract capital, chiefly because the Indiana act had fixed tolls too low to promise an adequate
                    return. Hence, the campaign to sell stock scarcely got off the ground. By May the Liberty Hall and 
                            Cincinnati
                         Gazette hoped that the Indiana legislature would "at their next
                    session add such provisions to the law as will afford an inducement to men of wealth
                        and enterprise to engage in it."45 And the same paper later
                    made the realistic comment: "He who calculates upon a spirit of patriotism alone to
                    accomplish a great national work will most assuredly be disappointed."46 A Cincinnati canal meeting appointed a committee of five, who
                    pointedly nudged Indiana by resolving that more inducements should be offered investors, that tolls
                    should be raised, that the state consider adopting a lottery to raise money.47
            
            William Lytle, an energetic trader of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , had an Ohio Falls canal on his mind when he restated an old
                    shippers' grievance in 1817: 
                        The Toll for passing a flat boat through the Canal would be from 4 to 10 Dollars, and the
                            merchants of 
                                Cincinnati
                             and else where assure me they would prefer paying [one?] from 4[00] to 600
                            dollars per Barge or Steam Boat rather than unload be low the falls and drag their Boats
                            over the rapids, and I think more than forty in that business 
                        
                           43
                                    Ibid., March 2, 1818.
                        
                           44
                                    Ibid., March 24, 1817. Dr. Daniel Drake, author of books medical
                                    and historical, was the founder of the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Lancastrian Seminary, and he became president of 
                                        Ohio
                                     Medical College. Known as the father of 
                                        Ohio
                                     physicians, he was a public-spirited man interested in all reforms.
                                    Ethan Stone, another public-spirited citizen, was known as a patriot and orator.
                                    Isaac G. Burnet became the first mayor of the city of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     in 1819.
                        
                           45
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Liberty Hall and 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         Gazette, May 20, 1817.
                        
                           46
                                    Ibid., October 6, 1817.
                        
                           47
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Western Spy, December 26, 1817.
                     
                             have offered to bind themselves & Heirs to pay
                            it for every loaded Barge or Steam Boat coming up which would amount to a vast sum in the
                            round of 12 months.…48
                  
                    In contrast to 
                        Cincinnati
                    's committee of five which extended advice to Indiana about how to make
                    progress on its canal, Lytle was not thinking about the Indiana canal but still had his attention on
                    a canal on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side. As the owner of three thousand acres on which he founded 
                  Portland, Kentucky
               , a likely canal terminus near 
                        Louisville
                    , Lytle had a vital interest in a ditch on the south side. Forthrightly he said: 
                        If I could command my debts now due me I would open that canal my self, as I am of opinion it
                            offers a fairer prospect for accumulating a vast and inexostible scorce of welth beyond any
                            king either Europe or America can offer at this day and which will increase for perhaps 1000
                            years to come.49
                  
                    
            
            As inactive months went by without progress on Indiana's canal, the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Western Spy, summarizing a 
                  Troy,
                            New York
               , story of the rapid progress on
                    De Witt Clinton's great 362-mile Erie Canal, said bitterly: 
                        If this statement be correct, it must certainly prove a want of public spirit and enterprize
                            in our own section of the country, to see so little prospect of having a Canal of only two miles cut around the Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                            .… But to effect this object the same measures must be taken here
                            that were in New-York. The Legislatures of, at least, Indiana and 
                                Ohio
                            , (for it seems 
                                Kentucky
                             will not,) must make the cause their own by a mutual co-operation they may
                            easily effect it.50
                  
                    Cooperation seemed sensible, but nothing came of it. 
                        Kentucky
                    , despite the sneer of the Spy, had made a gesture in that direction,
                    its lieutenant governor having recommended in January, 1817, that the legislature appoint
                    commissioners to examine Ohio Falls, submit an estimate of the cost of a canal,
                    and communicate with the governors of 
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia, Ohio
               , and Indiana. The 
                        Ohio
                     legislature approved a resolution recommending a joint canal commission from 
                  
                     48 William Lytle to David McClelland, August 2, 1817, Lytle Papers,
                            Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                Ohio
                            , University of 
                                Cincinnati
                             Library, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     . Known as the
                            "General," William Lytle had emigrated from 
                                Pennsylvania
                             to the neighborhood of 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     ,
                            in 1779; about 1809 he moved to 
                                Cincinnati
                             because he did not want his wife, who had been brought up with cultural
                            advantages, to languish in a backward town. See Charles Livingood MS, The Lytle Book, Lytle
                            Papers, Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio, Cincinnati
                     .
                  
                     49 William Lytle to David McClelland, August 2, 1817, Lytle Papers.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, October 17, 1817.
               
                     those several states.51
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                     had also acted. Governor Jennings, in his annual message to the Indiana assembly on
                    December 2, 1817, remarked that he had received 
                        a resolution from the governor of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , appointing a commissioner on the part of that state, to meet such
                            commissioners as may have been, or shall be appointed on behalf of the states of
                                    
                        Ohio, Virginia, Kentucky
                      and Indiana, or either of them, to examine the obstructions
                            in the Ohio river, and estimate the probable expence that would attend
                            their removal; each of which will be submitted for your consideration.52
                  
                    
            
            Hoosier solons did not respond to this invitation, nor did cooperation ever succeed, perhaps because
                    many believed then, as they do now, that government was too inefficient to meddle with business that
                    was the preserve of private enterprise. Commenting on such views, a 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor said several years later: "Upon their reasoning and principles, not a
                    road, not a bridge, nor a canal, could ever be made at public expense. We should remain forever in a
                    state of poverty, depression and rudeness."53 William Lytle, that hardy 
                        Cincinnati
                     operator, expressed the attitude of the rugged individualist when he wrote to a
                    correspondent in late 1817: 
                        I have handed in a Petition to the upper house [of the 
                                Kentucky
                             legislature] for a law in favour of a canal round the Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                            . My motive for it at this moment is to prevent the People of Indiana &
                            the State of 
                                Ohio
                             going into the measure, as they are making great exertions and have charged
                            their members of Congress on that point.54
                  
                    The 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , Reporter had observed that,
                    although 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and Indiana had a common interest in a falls canal, the
                    project properly belonged to Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    —"and particularly to 
                        Kentucky
                     as the superior in age and resources, to take a leading part in accomplishing the
                    common object."55
            
            Thus canaling threshed around in a familiar morass of sectional and self-interest. Governor Jennings
                    himself was apparently lukewarm toward cooperation with other states, for he dwelt upon the plight
                    of Indiana's Ohio Canal Company: 
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., January 31, 1817, January 3, 1818.
                  
                     52 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 2nd Sess.
                            (1817–1818), 8.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, January 7, 1825.
                  
                     54 William Lytle to John Rowan, December 10, 1817, Lytle Papers.
                  
                     55
                            
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , Reporter, n.d., reprinted in 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, December 20, 1816.
               
                    
                    
                        The act of the last session, incorporating a canal company for the accomplishment of this
                            great object, has been found insufficient, and not so liberal in its provisions, as to
                            ensure the attention of capitalists;… and it will be with you to determine,
                            whether it shall undergo the necessary alterations, or whether this first effort of the
                            state, for internal improvement, shall fail for want of public patronage.56
                  
                    Lawmakers complied with a charter, approved on January 28, 1818, for the 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    Ohio Canal Company. On a revamped board of directors were: Benjamin Parke,
                    Jacob Burnet, James Scott, Christopher Harrison, John Paul, William Prince, and Stephen Ludlow. The
                    new law retained most of the provisions of the previous one and added an authorization to raise
                    $100,000 by a lottery, one-half of which should be used to buy company stock for the
                    state. Thus for the first time, and while yet in its infancy, the Indiana government indicated a
                    willingness to have a financial stake in a canal. Other new provisions stipulated that the canal be
                    navigable by December 1, 1824, and allowed the company to regulate canal tolls without legislative
                        action.57
            
            Seeking federal aid, William Hendricks, sole 
                        United States
                     congressman from Indiana, introduced in March, 1818, a resolution asking the committee
                    on roads and canals to look into the desirability of instructing the secretary of the treasury to
                    subscribe on behalf of the 
                        United States
                     for up to six thousand shares in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company. But 
                  
                     56 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 2nd Sess.
                            (1817–1818), 8.
                  
                     57 "Indiana, Special Acts
                            (1817–1818), 57–67; Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives, 2nd Sess. (1817–1818), 212–213, 251;
                            Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 2nd Sess. (1817–1818), 163,
                            208. The bill had some trouble in the house, but it passed there by a vote of 21 to 7.
                            Benjamin Parke, of 
                                Salem
                            , had served in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign, as territorial member of Congress, and as delegate to the state
                            constitutional convention; an eminent jurist, he was a scholar who fostered public libraries
                            in 
                                Vincennes
                             and Corydon, the latter becoming the nucleus of the Indiana State Library.
                            Jacob Burnet, a leading citizen of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , was lawyer, banker, and legislator, bank president, president of the
                            Astronomical Society of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , president of 
                                Cincinnati
                             College, and president of 
                                Ohio
                             Medical College. Christopher Harrison, of 
                                Salem
                            , was lieutenant governor of the first Indiana state government; his most
                            startling official act was to take over the governorship when Governor Jennings was absent
                            on an Indian treaty mission, but when the legislature confirmed Jennings, Harrison resigned.
                            John Paul, proprietor of 
                                Madison
                            , served under George Rogers Clark, as a delegate to the Indiana constitutional
                            convention, and as a member from 
                                Switzerland
                             County of the first Indiana General Assembly. William Prince, of 
                                Gibson County
                            , was a captain in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign, served in the War of 1812, became a judge, and was later elected to
                            Congress, but died before completing his term. Stephen Ludlow, one of the first settlers of 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , was on the commission that located a new state capital in 1820.
               
                     Congress spent so much time debating the constitutionality of
                    such grants that the committee never reported, and no federal subscription materialized.58 The privilege of regulating tolls was useful in figuring paper profits, but
                    at the moment there was no canal on which to collect tolls.
            The lottery, however, looked lucrative. As a common money-raising device, appealing as always to the
                    hope of getting something for nothing, it was a great favorite. There were canal lotteries, town
                    lotteries, and lotteries to raise money for businesses, lodges, academies, and churches. The 
                        Jeffersonville
                    -
                        Ohio
                     gamble offered 20,000 tickets at $6 each. Of these, 13,658 were blanks, and
                    6,342 were good for prizes. Six thousand of those returned the buyer only his six dollars, two
                    hundred paid $50 each, one hundred paid $100, twenty paid $500, and
                    so on in decreasing numbers up to one grand prize of $20,000 to be won by the first
                    ticket drawn on the last day of drawing. All prizes of $100 and over were to be paid
                    one-half in cash, less 15 per cent, one-half in stock of the company—except eight
                    stationary prizes of $500 each to be paid entirely in stock.59 The
                    holder had one chance in about eighty-five of getting back more than the price of his ticket, and
                    about one chance in three of getting anything.
            The righteous frowned upon this gaming plan advertised: "By the authority of the State of
                    Indiana." One indignant critic sternly reprehended 
                        the impropriety and injurious tendency of similar acts of government, whose attention should
                            be directed to repress, rather than inflame, that direful passion for the doctrine of
                            chances, which is already too strong in every country, and which in the end, induces nothing
                            but misery and despair, in those who unfortunately become its slaves.…60
                  
                    The answer to that could have been that anybody inflamed by the possibilities of this canal
                    lottery was too combustible to be fireproofed. A 
                        Cincinnati
                     editor had editorialized in a masterful defense of lotteries that neatly walked the
                    tightrope of morality: 
                        That an indiscriminate license of private lotteries would be in a high degree injurious to
                            society, is a point which will not be controverted, it would create a system of speculation
                            and fraud that would in a short 
                        
                           58 Logan Esarey (ed.), Governors Messages and
                                        Letters (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols.
                                    VII, IX, XII; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Ind., 1922–1924), III, 306.
                        
                           59
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph, February 5, 1819.
                        
                           60 McMurtrie, Sketches of 
                                            Louisville
                                         and Its Environs, 191.
                     
                             time reduce the art of swindling to a science. It is
                            not our wish… to unbind the wholesome ligaments of moral restraint; they are
                            loose enough in any state of society, but we should regret to see Indiana sacrifice so great
                            an object to an erroneous sentiment.61
                  
                    Moral sentiment did not prevail, yet state endorsement of the lottery was hardly consistent
                    with an act "for the prevention of Gaming" passed at the first session of the
                    state legislature. Among other culprits, it singled out for fining "persons playing at any
                    game or wager."62 Possibly government was not considered a person.
            Aside from pious mutterings, the confusing pattern of events unrolled like a rerun of an old picture.
                    As before, 
                        Kentucky
                     immediately retaliated, in early 1818, by incorporating the 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    Ohio Canal Company. Among its twelve commissioners were the formidable William
                    Lytle and John Gwathmey, former director of the Indiana Canal Company. Kentuckians forehandedly
                    reserved five hundred shares of stock each for the 
                  United
                        States, Kentucky, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    , but from this preferred list conspicuously omitted 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. Evidently the hoped-for buyers did not step up, for when the 
                        Kentucky
                     company opened its books in late April, 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers observed with smug satisfaction that not a single share was sold.63 The flurry in 
                        Kentucky
                    , said the Liberty Hall and 
                            Cincinnati
                         Gazette,
                    
                        is a mere feint, and we are disposed to give the people of 
                                Louisville
                             credit for the dexterity of their movements. They are determined to have no
                            canal.… The future growth of the town depends upon the existence of the
                            obstruction: remove it and 
                                Louisville
                             dwindles into insignificance; the very unwholesomeness of its atmosphere, after
                            the stir of business had subsided, would make it a deserted village.64
                  
                    
            
            In 
                        Cincinnati
                    , canal ardor topped that of the previous year. When the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company opened its books there in April, a booming meeting subscribed for a thousand
                    shares and appointed a two-man committee for each ward of the city to make a door-to-door canvass.
                    All that despite the curious circumstance that the company—notwithstanding it 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, n.d., reprinted in the 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, October 25, 1817.
                  
                     62 Indiana, Laws (1816–1817),
                            92–98.
                  
                     63 See 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, March 14, May 9, 1818; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, March 18, May 6, 1818.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, March 18, 1818.
               
                     was reported to have engaged James Flint as
                    engineer—had no plan to submit and no estimate of cost. The subscriber flew blind under
                    adverse conditions described as "so discouraging, that nothing but the most determined
                    public spirit could have surmounted [them]."65
            
            A complication occurred at a July meeting in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , when it developed that speculators (whether within the company or outside is not
                    clear) were buying land on the proposed canal route with a view of profiting at the expense of the
                    company. This disclosure, added to lack of plan and estimate, led 
                        Cincinnati
                     subscribers to withhold their subscriptions and to appoint a committee to engage an
                    engineer "to examine the obstructions in the bed of the river at the falls, to ascertain
                    the practicability of removing them, and the probable expense of doing it."66
            
            It is strange that these technicalities of plan and estimate, which should have preceded all other
                    effort, should only so belatedly have been considered. A few months later the news was that Captain
                    William Green, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , "is now employed in drawing out plans for the locks, and
                    making a general estimate of the expense."67 Why Captain Green rather
                    than the company's engineer should have done these tasks is as puzzling as other haphazard
                    aspects of this undertaking. Still, the notice referring to Green is the first specific one
                    mentioning plan or estimate and came nine months after the company had been incorporated;
                    nevertheless, apparently no estimate was published. 
                        Cincinnati
                     subscribers were so disturbed that they were said to be dallying with the thought of
                    joining the 
                        Kentucky
                     forces. Such a move, said the Liberty Hall and 
                            Cincinnati
                         Gazette, would be "tantamount to a total abandonment of an enterprize
                    involving the best interests of a large portion of the western country the 
                        Louisville
                     people will never be driven into the project of digging a canal; every consideration of
                    interest is opposed to the idea."68
            
            Into the middle of confused uncertainty the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser tossed a wide-eyed disclaimer: 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., March 25, May 20, June 23, 1818; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, May 16, 1818.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, July 25, 1818; see also the Western Spy of
                            July 13, 1818; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, July 14, 1818; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, August 15, 1818.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy, October 10, 1818.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, July 14, 1818.
               
                    
                    
                        "The fact is, that we are really anxious to see the canal round the
                            falls—to see the steam boats… discharging their cargoes at our doors
                            at all seasons of the year. If the people of 
                                Cincinnati
                             really want a canal around the falls, they may convince the public of their
                            sincerity, by assisting the people of this place in the construction of it. But if they
                            withhold such assistance, all the bustle they have heretofore made, will be viewed as the
                            offspring of jealousy."69
                  
                    Notwithstanding this gambit in the sectional cold war, Cincinnati canal
                    adherents stood by the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company. The problem of land speculation and other difficulties must have been
                    adjusted, for in the fall 
                        Cincinnati
                     subscribers reaffirmed their loyalty by resubscribing $70,000.70 In Indiana, Lieutenant Governor Christopher Harrison (claiming to be governor) said to
                    the Indiana legislature on December 9, 1818: 
                        The success which has attended the exertions of the 
                                Jeffersonville
                                Ohio
                             Canal Company, affords the flattering prospect of a speedy commencement, upon
                            the great object for which the corporation was created, and presents still stronger claims
                            upon the General Assembly to aid its ultimate execution.71
                  
                    True enough, work was actually about to commence. At a meeting in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in March, 1819, canal directors announced that digging would begin on the first Monday
                    in May, and that they expected "to procure a manager and many of the undertakers from the
                    state of New-York, who have been engaged in the stupendous canal of that state."72 Contemporary reports do not identify these experts from out of town or reveal
                    whether or not they ever showed up.
            In late April, John Bigelow, not a man to be caught unprepared for a proper celebration of the event,
                    wrote to John Francis Dufour: 
                        I enclose you $15 to purchase some 
                                Vevay
                             wine that which is unmixed by any kind of preparation would be prefered [sic] please to get the best you can of that discription [sic] it would be better to be put in a cask that had been used for wine before. On the
                            first Monday in next month we commence the canal and I should be very glad to 
                        
                           69
                                    
                                        Louisville
                                    
                                    Public Advertiser, n.d., reprinted in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Western Spy, August 15, 1818.
                        
                           70
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Liberty Hall and 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         Gazette, November 3, 1818.
                        
                           71 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                        Representatives, 3rd Sess. (1818–1819), 22.
                        
                           72
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Liberty Hall and 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         Gazette, March 20, 1819; see also Corydon Indiana
                                        Gazette, March 20, 1819.
                     
                             have a little wine of domestic manufactory to drink on
                            the occasion if you could possibly get it down here by that time it would be a great
                                favour.73
                  
                    Starting a canal without bottles or kegs was as unthinkable as launching a cruiser without
                    champagne. At noon on May 3, company directors, each carrying a shovel, marched to the canal site,
                    where they simultaneously dug. The assembled crowd, described by the Corydon Indiana
                        Gazette as "a large number of citizens," seized shovels and followed suit
                    with loud huzzas. At 2:00 P.M. everybody "repaired to a bower, prepared on a charming
                    green, in sight of the Canal," where Ethan Stone, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , delivered "an animated and patriotic address." After that all fell
                    to on "an elegant and sumptuous repast, prepared for the occasion by Maj. Charles
                    Futter." Pervading the occasion, said the paper, were "harmony, conviviality and
                    good fellowship… and everything exhibited a spirit of generous emulation in promoting
                    this great National work, destined to be one of the strongest cements of our union and common
                        prosperity."74
            
            Thus digging began in a blaze of hope, and for a time thereafter the contractor, Michael I. Myers,
                    busily grubbed out a section in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     between Spring Street and the corner post of the town allotment and dug about a mile of
                    shallow ditch. The company engineer conceived the ingenious scheme of damming Cane Run, turning the
                    water into the canal ditch and washing out the earth, thus materially reducing the cost of
                    excavation. The idea was clever, but a stratum of blue clay defeated him. Sixty years later a local
                    historian said: "The waters carried out a small quantity of loose dirt, but when the blue
                    clay was reached had no effect, and had it continued running to this day would not have made a
                        canal."75
            
            The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser engaged in guerrilla tactics of scoffing and making scurrilous
                    remarks about the directors of the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company. The object of these attacks, said the 
                  
                            Jeffersonville
                         Indianian, "is to injure the progress of the Canal and to destroy the
                    sale of lottery tickets."76 There were rumors that the lottery had been
                    discontinued. 
                  
                     73 John Bigelow to John Francis Dufour [April 20, 1819?], Dufour
                            Collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     74 Corydon Indiana Gazette, May 15, 1819.
                  
                     75
                            History of the Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties,
                            II, 453.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                            Indianian, December 18, 1819.
               
                     "It is unfortunately true," said the Western Spy, "that the Canal has many enemies; and
                    sneering at the efforts already made, and putting afloat such rumors as the above, are some of the
                    mean and petty artifices used by them to retard its completion."77
            
            A much worse blow than verbal sniping was the report, in late fall, made by a joint commission
                    appointed by 
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia, Ohio
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . After examining both sides of the river, this body unanimously reported in favor of
                    building the canal on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side; it estimated the cost of a canal there at $330,594, as against
                    $1,117,122 for a ditch at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .78 Even James Flint, 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company engineer, favored 
                        Kentucky
                    , but he finally produced an estimate of $484,726 for the canal already under
                    way in Indiana.79 Any one of those figures represented far more money than the
                    Indiana company had on hand or was likely to get. 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     editors implied that the commission had been deluded by persuasive Kentuckians. In a
                    letter to the governor of 
                        Ohio
                    , Governor Jennings expressed doubts of the commission's fairness: 
                        I am constrained to suppose that all those commissioners did not personally inspect the river
                            and the adjoining shores at the Falls. I have not as yet heard that they visited 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , although residing within 25 miles, and yet their report is in favour of the 
                                Louisville
                             side of the river. Considerable money has been expended already on this side
                            and the ground much the most safe in warranting the necessary monies to be expended to
                            complete an object of so much importance. If practicable and consistent, I should be much
                            gratified to witness a patronage from the state over which you preside, favouring the
                            execution of the 
                                Jeffersonville
                                Ohio
                             Canal. It is my opinion that this State will do as much as its age and
                            rescourses [sic] will justify.80
                  
                    
            
            Nevertheless, the commission's report was of public record, and it damaged Indiana canal
                    prospects. The Liberty Hall and 
                            Cincinnati
                         Gazette, reflecting upon Hoosier failure to cooperate with any other state,
                    fell into gloomy musings: 
                  
                     77
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 General Advertiser, July 24, 1819.
                  
                     78
                            
                        Frankfort, Kentucky
                     , Argus, November 12, 1819; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, January 11, 1820.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 General Advertiser, November 22, 1819.
                  
                     80 Jonathan Jennings to Ethan A. Brown, January 11, 1820, Jennings
                            Manuscripts, William H. Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        Indiana… appears totally indifferent about any other obstructions but those at the
                            falls we should feel… regret in believing, that her regard for the individual
                            interests of a few speculators at 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , would induce her to disregard the general welfare of the state it would appear
                            to be a waste of our resources to expend any more money in the hopeless project of making a
                            canal on the Indiana side, by the unassisted efforts of individual enterprise.81
                  
                    Company directors evidently agreed that individual enterprise was not enough, for they
                    somewhat frantically petitioned the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature for aid from that state, only to be politely rebuffed by a resolution:
                    "That it is inexpedient at this time to make any appropriation of money to aid in the
                    accomplishment of the canal round the falls of 
                        Ohio
                     on either side of the river.… "82
            
            Governor Jennings was too stubborn to quit. In his annual message to the Indiana General Assembly on
                    December 7, 1819, he said over-optimistically: "The 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company has made considerable progress towards the accomplishment of the object
                    of their association, and should be aided by the resources of the Government."83 Progress was hardly sensational, but the assembly authorized purchase by the
                    state of two hundred shares of canal stock, to be paid for out of the 3 per cent fund.84 That meant $10,000, but it was not nearly enough to invigorate the faltering
                    company. For another year it lurched along while die-hards refused to believe that the game was up.
                    In January, 1820, a citizen of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     maintained: 
                        "We are not disheartened here; on the contrary, we have started with new life; and
                            every man of this town has either sent a man, or gone himself to work in digging a ditch and
                            making a dam to get head water the work is done almost wholly at the expense of the town we
                            have now dug four to five feet deeper, in a strait [sic] line from above
                            the bridge to the low bottom back of the town, and we feel confident of washing to the rock,
                            with only a few hands to tumble in the dirt from above.85
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     81
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, January 11, 1820.
                  
                     82
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy & 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 General Advertiser, March 11, 1820.
                  
                     83 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives,
                            4th Sess. (1819–1820), 19.
                  
                     84 See Indiana, Laws (1819–1820),
                            135–136; Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives, 4th
                            Sess. (1819–1820), 343, 381; Indiana, Journal of the Senate,
                            4th Sess. (1819–1820), 247.
                  
                     85 Letter from 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , January 23, 1820, in 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 General Advertiser, January 29, 1820.
               
                     Such dedication was typical of the whole canal effort in
                    Indiana, when confirmed believers were convinced that faith and determination could move mountains.
                    Unfortunately, these sterling attributes did not move enough earth to matter at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .
            Drawings in the lottery, which had begun in April, 1819, at 
                  Jeffersonville, Madison, Cincinnati
               , and probably elsewhere, continued until
                    September, 1820. Shepherd's Truly Lucky Lottery Office, in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , frequently reported numbers that had won prizes—generally omitting to
                    publish the blanks—scotched rumors that the lottery had been suspended and spurred on
                    chance-takers by such urgings as: "Adventurers, be on the alert, or you will miss a fortune
                    by unpardonable negligence."86 Nobody made a fortune, for the highest
                    prize listed (twice only) was $500. Moralists need not have fretted over this lottery,
                    for it was a dismal failure. Of 2,716 tickets sold, 1,497 were sold on credit, and lottery managers
                    had turned over to the company treasury only $2,536.87 By the end of
                    1820 the company was practically broke. Total stock subscriptions amounted to $108,650,
                    far short of the capitalization of $1,000,000, and only a small part of that was cash.
                    Adding driblets from the lottery, generous donators, and the state's modest contribution,
                    then subtracting $13,660.37$1/4 for abortive digging at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     left in the treasury a meager cash balance of $1,272.71$3/4.88
            
            But Governor Jennings was a persistent man. Believing that the state was obligated to finish the
                    canal, he once again pressed his views upon the legislature late in 1820. The times were anything
                    but rosy. At a low point in the first boom-and-bust cycle in the 
                        United States
                    , money was so scarce that, as one depressed 
                        Vincennes
                     citizen wryly said:
                        Cider and beef we have in plenty; And wine and spirits to content ye; But not a
                            dollar to be seen— A dollar!—not a pistareen!89
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     86
                            Ibid., June 26, 1819; see also ibid., April 17, June 19,
                            July 17, 24, 27, August 7, 17, 1819, January 1, 22, February 19, March 4, June 1, July 24,
                            1820. 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Spy and Literary Cadet, September 24, 1820; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Indiana Republican, May 8, 1819; 
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                            Indianian, December 4, 11, 1819, January 1, 22, March 17, 31, April 7, 20,
                            27, 1820.
                  
                     87 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives,
                            5th Sess (1820–1821), 135.
                  
                            88
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     89 Vincennea Centinel, January 22, 1821.
               
                     The state's wallet being as flat as the
                    voter's, the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer predicted a short session of the legislature, "as it is doubtful
                    whether their zeal to do something for the public good will not be considerably cooled by the
                    Treasurer's report. It has long been remarked that the sight of an empty treasury has a
                    very frigorific influence upon patriotism."90 Nevertheless, the
                    Governor attempted to conjure dollars. "To appropriate a certain portion of the three per
                    cent, fund," he said, 
                        assigned to making roads and canals within the state, not to exceed one half of its annual
                            amount, until the object be attained, upon the condition that the state of 
                                Ohio
                             shall become interested, would unite public confidence sufficiently to remove
                            in a reasonable time, the impediments presented by the falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             to the increasing and greatly to be enlarged commerce necessarily to be
                            entrusted to its navigation.91
                  
                    
            
            Reliance upon the 3 per cent fund was scarcely warranted by the returns from it. Granted by Congress
                    to the state upon its admission to the Union, 3 per cent of net proceeds from the sale of public
                    lands amounted in the first seven years to $71,950.08.92 By 1835 the
                    grand total was $224,464.82. Since the legislature appropriated much of the fund for
                    roads—$100,000 in 1821—any part donated annually to the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company could hardly have built a canal in a generation.93 But a
                    legislative committee resolved: 
                        That it is expedient that one part of the three per cent, fund, which has accrued, or may
                            hereafter accrue to this state, be applied from time to time in completing the 
                                Jeffersonville
                                Ohio
                             canal, provided the government of the state of 
                                Ohio
                             shall interest itself in its final execution.94
                  
                    When the government of 
                        Ohio
                     evinced no interest, the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Company illustrated the unconscious humor in the word "execution" by
                    quietly expiring.
            
               
                  90
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Enquirer, December 19, 1820.
               
                  91 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives, 5th
                        Sess. (1820–1821), 8.
               
                  92 Elbert Jay 
                            Benton
                        , The 
                                Wabash
                             Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest (Johns Hopkins University
                            Studies in Historical and Political Science, Vol. XXI, Nos. 1–2; 
                            Baltimore
                        , Md., 1903), 41n.
               
                  93 See James Edward Hagerty, "Early Financial History of Indiana,
                        1816–1872," Indiana History Bulletin, Vol. 14 (October,
                        1937), 268–269.
               
                  94 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives, 5th
                        Sess. (1820–1821), 134–135.
            
            
            Thus matters in Indiana rested for a few years. Elsewhere ferment prevailed. In January, 1821, the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature authorized the governor to engage an experienced engineer to survey the
                        Ohio Falls site and to submit canal estimates for both sides. This gesture
                    came to nothing since the governor was unable to lure away one of Clinton's busy
                    technologists. In 1823 a board of engineers reported no preference for either side and submitted an
                    estimate of $140,000 for a canal on either side. In 1824 citizens of 
                        Louisville
                    , tired of being labeled obstructionists, held a town meeting that affirmed their
                    interest in a canal and appointed a lobbyist to work for federal aid in 
                        Washington
                    . In the same year Alfred Kelley, an 
                        Ohio
                     canal commissioner, and David S. Bates, 
                        Ohio
                     canal engineer, inspected both sides of the river, estimated the cost of a canal on the
                    Indiana side at not over $150,000, and reported to the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature. 
                        Ohio
                     resolved to unite with either 
                        Kentucky
                     or Indiana in the building of a canal and instructed the governor to transmit
                    resolutions to the governors of those states.95
            
            In January, 1824, the Indiana legislature appointed Christopher Harrison and Governor William
                    Hendricks "commissioners to commence and complete" the falls canal, authorizing
                    them to employ engineers and surveyors, to borrow on the strength of the 3 per cent fund, to apply
                    to Congress for a loan, to ask the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature for cooperation, and to use convict labor from the new state penitentiary,
                    which had been conveniently established at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .96 Of a sudden there flared up a brief flame of former ardor. Hope
                    never burned more brightly than in the hearts of determined canal men industriously collecting
                    enough money for a down payment on a ditch. Governor Hendricks addressed memorials to the
                    legislatures of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and instructed the Indiana representative in Congress to inquire about a federal loan.
                    The Governor and Harrison investigated the possibility of floating a loan sufficient to complete the
                        canal.97
                    
                  
                     95 See 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, February 14, August 22, 1823; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Emporium, February 26, 1824; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, August 2, 1824; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, January 13, 1824; 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Indiana Register, February 13, 1824.
                  
                     96 See Indiana, Special Acts (1823–1824),
                            78–81.
                  
                     97 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 9th Sess. (1825),
                            46–48.
               
                     All these matters produced a lively bustle but no tangible
                    results.
            
               
                        Ohio
                     was willing to cooperate but asked for "propositions more definite in
                    character than those laid before them, to be compared with such as they may receive from 
                        Kentucky
                    ."98 At the session of the Indiana General Assembly in 1825
                    Governor Hendricks transmitted the 
                        Ohio
                     message, together with the report of Kelley and Bates, to the committee on roads and
                    canals. The committee had much to say about a Maumee canal in the northern part of the state, but
                    nothing about a canal at Ohio Falls. Still, the Governor hoped that 
                        Ohio
                     would unite with Indiana, in which event, said he, "An advance of a small
                    portion of the three per cent, fund without interest would… enable the
                    state to progress with the work."99 But the session did not act, and no
                    progress resulted. A Hoosier editor, commenting upon a laggard Indiana that was not keeping up with
                    other states, remarked disgustedly: "Our legislatures meet, and instead of acting on more
                    important subjects, the members content themselves by passing laws to curtail constables'
                    fees, or altering old and laying off new state roads."100
            
            In January, 1825, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature, reacting routinely, chartered the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal Company to cut a canal over there.101 The usual tumult
                    followed: opening of stock subscription books, expansive stories of stock being quickly snapped up,
                    predictions that work would begin in late spring and be completed by the summer of 1826.102 There were also familiar sour notes, like that of a disenchanted Indiana
                    man, who declared: "The proposed Kentucky canal at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , will not progress… the company have not the means, nor can any corporation
                    be organized which can procure the means; and… two thirds of the population feel no
                    interest in it."103
                    
                  
                     98
                            Ibid., 47.
                  
                     99 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives,
                            9th Sess. (1825), 16.
                  
                     100
                            
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer and Farmer's Friend, January 8, 1825.
                  
                     101
                            History of the Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties,
                            I, 255; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 383.
                  
                     102
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Public Advertiser, April 30, October 22, 1825.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, January 6, 1826.
               
                     His pessimism seemed justified when no action occurred for many
                    months after incorporation of the 
                        Kentucky
                     company. In October a Hoosier editor said that he had expected a spirited prosecution
                    of the work. "But how mistaken! The season is now far advanced and nothing worth mentioning
                    has yet been done; not even an earnest is given that any thing of importance will be performed next
                        year."104 Thus the Kentuckians floundered in a familiar way. In
                    December, 1825, the company let a contract to a 
                        New York
                     firm for $370,000, but work did not start until March, 1826, at which time
                    the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Company had in its treasury only $16,070.105 That sum
                    would not carry a costly construction job very far; indeed, work in 1826 was so desultory that the 
                        Kentucky
                     effort seemed like a repetition of futility in Indiana.
            Possibly the customary lumbering movement of canaling over there led Governor James 
                        Brown
                     Kay doggedly to bring the subject before the Indiana legislature of
                    1825–1826. "Should you be satisfied that the public voice sanctions this
                    project," he said, "and that the state of 
                        Kentucky
                     will forbear to rear up a ruinous competition, by the completion of a similar work on
                    the other side of the river, you will have but little difficulty in coming to a conclusion favorable
                    to the commencement of this long agitated work."106 Agitation was
                    obvious, but 
                        Kentucky
                     was not precisely forbearing, and Hoosier lawmakers were indisposed to act. It was just
                    as well, for in May, 1826, Congress, impressed by losses to commerce at Ohio
                    Falls, passed a bill authorizing purchase by the 
                        United States
                     of one thousand shares of 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     stock. Three years later when this federal subsidy was increased to
                    $290,200, it was almost a guaranty of success. Still, the job was not easy; nevertheless,
                    though beset by slow progress and contractors' failures, the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal was finally completed in 1831, four years behind schedule at a cost of
                    $750,000. Thereafter it was very profitable, 
                  
                     104
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana, Palladium, October 7, 1825.
                  
                     105 See 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, October 28, 1825; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, March 10, 1826; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial Register, March 9, 1826; 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , Reporter, January 6, 1826.
                  
                     106 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 10th Sess. (1825–1826), 38.
               
                     though often criticized for exorbitant tolls, and in 1872 it
                    became federal property.107
            
            A final faint echo of departed Indiana hopes was Governor Ray's announcement to the general
                    assembly that a Mr. Shriver, of a corps of engineers, had "expected to repair to the Fall
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    … to inquire as to the practicability of a canal around the Falls…
                    and to prepare a plan and estimate of the same," but that before he could do so "a
                    summons to leave this world has taken this competent engineer away."108
            
            Thus ended the first canal efforts in Indiana after much sound and fury signifying nothing capable of
                    floating a boat. Yet if some people down around the 
                        Ohio
                     sulked because 
                        Kentucky
                     had won the interstate battle, more forward-looking citizens turned their attention to
                    new projects. A Whitewater Valley canal had been talked about for several years; delegates had met,
                    resolved, and set up a Whitewater lottery.109 Reports of the progress of 
                        New York
                    's Grand Canal had great effect. Governor Clinton in person visited 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in July, 1825, to be royally received with a thundering salute, a parade, and a dinner
                    complete with thirteen toasts.110 When the whole line of the Erie was opened in
                    October of that year, lyrical dithyrambs echoed in the Middle West: 
                        Clinton! around thy brow fame twines her wreath of glory, And long thy patriot deeds shall
                            live in song and story! Though malice rears her head, And envy wakes the dead, They bright
                            shall flourish, while Niagara's volumes Rear to the skies their rainbow'd
                            cloud-cup columns!111
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     107 See Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Early
                                Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1912), 68–69; History of the Ohio
                                    Falls Cities and Their Counties, I, 48; Dunn, Indiana
                                and Indianans, I, 383; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, May 26, 1826. The criticism of high tolls recalls
                            William Lytle's remark in 1817 that merchants would be willing to pay
                            "4[00] to 600 dollars per Barge or Steam Boat" for a canal. But when they
                            got their canal they complained. It is an interesting note on the perversity of human
                            nature.
                  
                     108 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 11th Sess. (1826–1827), 47.
                  
                     109 See 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Enquirer, October 22, 1822, March 19, 1823, August 13, 1825; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 9, 1822; 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Palladium, August 19, 1825; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, August 26, 1825.
                  
                     110
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Palladium, July 22, 1825; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, August 30, 1825.
                  
                     111 "The Meeting of the Waters," 
                                New York
                            
                            Statesman, n.d., reprinted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, June 10, 1826.
               
                     Six long letters on internal improvements in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette by John Ewing, state senator from 
                        Knox County
                    , showed how the wind was blowing.112 It would be foolish, this
                    paper had said, to oppose an internal improvement in 
                        Kentucky
                     or anywhere else. Why not, it asked, consider navigation of the several
                        Indiana river valleys or a canal from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to unite the Maumee with the 
                        Wabash
                    ?113 A number of people had already asked those questions. They were
                    still asking, and their voices were growing louder.
            Notwithstanding proposals for blasting rock ledges out of the river, Ohio Falls,
                    unchanged, roared on. Even after the opening of the 
                        Louisville
                     and Portland Canal some bold skippers shot the rapids. Walt
                    Whitman, describing his journey to 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1848, said: "Our captain, with Western hardihood, determined to go over the
                    `boiling place.'… The bottom of the boat grated harshly more than once on the
                    stones beneath, and the pilots showed plainly that they did not feel altogether as calm as a summer
                        morning."114
            
            
               
                  112
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Gazette, September 13, 20, 27, October 4, November 1, 8, 1825.
               
                  113
                        Ibid., April 19, 1825.
               
                  114
                        
                            New Orleans
                        
                        Daily Crescent, March 6, 1848.
            
         
         
         
         
            Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                        Vincennes
                     University (April 6, 1812—April 24, 1824)
            Edited by Robert Constantine⋆
            
            Two installments of the minutes of the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University have previously been published in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History (December, 1958, and September, 1959) and cover meetings held from December, 1806,
                    to December, 1811. Taken together, these two installments of the board's transactions
                    during the five years following the school's incorporation provide a broad view of the
                    problems and policies involved in transplanting a "seed of culture" from the
                    Atlantic seaboard to the Old Northwest at the beginning of the nineteenth century. At the end of
                    five years a three-story brick building stood ready for occupancy and in a sense symbolized both the
                    achievements and frustrations experienced by the board in its efforts to transform a congressional
                    land grant into a "seminary of learning."
            Proceeding upon a trial-and-error basis, a distinguished group of men had given time and support to
                    the school's interests: William Henry Harrison, a future president of the 
                        United States
                    , served as president of the board and chairman of the committee charged with selling
                    and leasing land; Waller Taylor, one of Indiana's first two 
                        United States
                     senators, "managed" an unsuccessful lottery designed to raise
                    $6,000 for the building fund; Jonathan Jennings, who was to be first governor of the
                    state of Indiana, served for a time as clerk of the board; one of 
                        Illinois
                    ' first two 
                        United States
                     senators, Jesse B. Thomas, contracted for materials and labor for the building. A dozen
                    other men nearly as prominent in Indiana's territorial and state history and equally
                    dedicated to the school's success assumed comparable responsibilities as board members.
            Perhaps the board's most significant discovery during those early years was the fact that
                    necessary alterations in the physical dimensions of the first building were paralleled 
                  
                     ⋆ Robert Constantine is assistant professor of history at
                            Indiana State College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     by similar necessary alterations in the academic and
                    educational "blueprints" which most of the board's members had carried
                    west with them. For example, it became obvious that before an Eastern-style
                    "university" could prosper on the frontier a reservoir of scholars had first to be
                    created. This realization led to the opening of both a "common English school" and
                    a "Grammar school," for which an elaborate set of rules was drawn up and adopted
                    by the board in 1811. Considering the number and nature of the problems which the early board faced,
                    the erection of a brick building and the opening of preparatory schools within a period of five
                    years seemed grounds for the optimistic belief that a "Western nursery of
                    statesmen" was taking root in 
                        Vincennes
                     on the eve of the War of 1812.
            The following installment of the minutes, covering the period from 1812 to 1824, spans a significant
                    era in the history of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, whose fortunes were at many points affected by the larger trends and forces
                    of state and national history. Thus, the War of 1812 brought about a dispersal of several of the
                    original and most influential members of the board of trustees. The "Great
                    Migration" of the war and postwar years, on the other hand, carried a large number of
                    easterners to the 
                        Vincennes
                     area and several of them, graduates of 
                        Princeton
                     and Yale, became members of the board. The "land craze" of the years
                    preceding the Panic of 1819 was reflected in the board's confidence in its ability to sell
                    for $10 an acre school lands which had brought only $2 or $3 an
                    acre before the war. The board blamed the land policy of the national government for at least part
                    of the school's financial failure.
            Among factors of an "extraneous" nature which affected 
                        Vincennes
                     University, the determining one in making these years a "dark age"
                    for the school was the relative decline in importance of 
                        Vincennes
                     itself. A very perceptive anonymous writer in the Western Sun (February 16, 1822) noted
                    both the origins and effects of the city's decline. During the French period it had
                    "grown rapidly under the profits of the fur trade." Later, "under the
                    Americans" 
                        Vincennes
                     became "the grand central point of emigration and the seat of government for
                    the Northwest territory," and as a "frontier town, and a consequent military post,
                    she enjoyed the advantage of large sums expended by the general government."  Moreover, when the city was "located by the 
                        United States
                     as a place for issuing supplies to the Indians, great advantages were reaped from the
                    consequent trade," and, finally, while 
                        Vincennes
                     was "situated on the great leading route of western emigration, she received
                    from this source alone considerable sums of money and a constant increase of inhabitants."
                    All these favorable conditions, however, were "now [1822]… sadly reversed. More
                    than one third of our dwelling houses are destitute of inhabitants, our population has decreased
                    nearly or quite one half.… Buildings that a few years ago rented for two or three hundred
                    per annum, can now be rented for 50 or $100—many can be had for
                    occupying."
            Between 1812 and 1824 the university's early promise was to a comparable degree and for
                    closely related reasons "sadly reversed" also. When 
                        Vincennes
                     ceased to be the "grand central point of emigration," the possibility
                    of leasing university land as a fund-raising measure disappeared and was finally abandoned. The
                    interruption in the "constant increase in inhabitants" undoubtedly helped to
                    deprive the school of a population base large enough and financially able to support it. The
                    transfer of the territorial capital from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Corydon reflected the declining influence in Indiana political affairs of the "
                        Vincennes
                     faction," several of whose members had from its beginning been keen supporters
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. It is unlikely that had 
                        Vincennes
                     remained the territorial capital the national Congress would have ignored the
                    board's pleas for permission to resume the sale of the "seminary lands"
                    in 
                        Gibson County
                    , or that the state legislature would have transferred the control over and income from
                    the sale of those lands to the projected "state seminary" at 
                        Bloomington
                    . One point is clear: the "trouble" with 
                        Vincennes
                     University during this period cannot be explained solely in terms of loss of the land
                    in 
                        Gibson County
                     to the future Indiana University. To do so is to assign fundamental importance to a
                    development which was actually a symptom of deep-seated historical forces which had been at work on 
                        Vincennes
                     and, indirectly, on the university.
            During the dozen years covered by the following minutes the board is seen in its various attempts to
                    carry forward the work begun before 1812 and to meet new challenges, only some of which are
                    suggested above. Desperately needed financial resources were sought unsuccessfully in several  petitions to Congress "praying" for
                    permission to sell additional land in 
                        Gibson County
                    . Maintenance of the university building (and the "erection of two small houses
                    of convenience for the use of the Scholars, on the University lot") involved protracted
                    negotiations over labor and supplies. Nearly constant attention had to be given the problem of
                    finding students and retaining teachers for the "Grammar school." Changes in
                    curriculum and in tuition rates required board consideration, possibly in response to the large
                    number of "academies" and other private schools which sprang up in 
                        Vincennes
                     during the postwar years. These schools, ranging from "female"
                    boarding schools to night schools for apprentices, were conducted by individual schoolmasters (and
                    schoolmistresses), Protestant ministers, and the Catholic clergy and must have cut into the
                    university's grammar school enrollment. Such competition no doubt figured in the
                    board's decision in 1823 to turn over part of the university building to "the
                    Revd. Henry M. Shaw… and his successors, Episcopal clergymen" on the condition
                    that they "repair the Edifice… [and] attend to the education of youth.
                    " It was Shaw's school which was converted into the 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary in 1824.
            By 1824, as the minutes and relevant footnotes below will indicate, the status of the board of
                    trustees and the charter provisions of the university itself had been significantly altered as a
                    result of a series of laws passed by the Indiana General Assembly. In 1820 the board's
                    control over rental income from the "seminary lands" in 
                        Gibson County
                     was transferred to a state-appointed collector. Two years later, control over the land
                    was vested in a board of commissioners and the proceeds from its sale were reserved for the
                    "benefit of the state Seminary [at 
                        Bloomington
                    ]." In January, 1824, the "university" was
                    "adopted" as 
                        Knox County
                     Seminary and the board of trustees acted for a short time as the governing board for
                    the new institution. The terminal date of this installment (April, 1824), then, may be taken as the
                    close of the first era of the history of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. After nearly two decades the school's experience was a case
                    history of both the "respect for learning" which the migrating easterner carried
                    West and the "obstacles to culture" which he found upon his arrival. Needless to
                    say, the ideal of such a university persisted and had sufficient vitality to make 
                        Vincennes
                     University a continuing factor in the story of higher education in Indiana.
            
            Monday 6th of Aprile 1812⋆⋆
            
            This being the semianuel meeting of the board of Trusties of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University They met agreeable to Law. Members present: John Gibson, Francois Vigo,
                    Peter Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Robert Buntin, John Johnson, Charles Smith.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorum.1 The
                    board adjourned untill monday next the 12th i[n]stant.
            Monday 12th of Aprile 1812
            Members present: John Gibson, Nathaniel Ewing, & Robert Buntin.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorum. The Board adjourned untill
                    Saturday next the 18th [of April] 1812.
            
               
                        
                     ⋆⋆ In editing these minutes original spelling has
                            been faithfully followed, and, with some exceptions, original punctuation has been retained.
                            Periods have been inserted, however, after abbreviations; they have also been used at the
                            ends of paragraphs and in a few other places where their addition was unmistakably
                            indicated. No commas were added except to separate series of words or phrases. A colon was
                            consistently used following "viz" as well as preceding each list of
                            members present at a meeting. The abbreviations "A.M." and
                            "P.M." were standardized by uniform use of capital letters and periods.
                            Superior letters were brought down to the line. Inconsistent and unusual spacing used in the
                            original minutes sometimes dictated modification of paragraphing for the sake of clarity and
                            uniformity. Space limitations prompted the listing of members present at each board meeting
                            in a series, rather than in the columns which often appear in the original.
                        This is the third installment of the minutes of the Board of Trustees of 
                                Vincennes
                             University to be published in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History. The first installment included minutes from December 6, 1806, through
                            September 12, 1807 (Indiana Magazine of History, LIV [December, 1958],
                            313–364). Minutes from October 16, 1807, through December 11, 1811, were
                            published in the second installment (Indiana Magazine of History, LV
                            [September, 1959], 247–293). The section of the minutes which appears in this
                            issue covers board activities from April 6, 1812, through April 24, 1824. All three sections
                            have been published without deletions and are a complete copy of the minutes of 
                                Vincennes
                             University's board of trustees from the time of the board's
                            formation through its meeting of April 24, 1824.
                    
               
                  1 The rules governing quorums, regular and special meetings, filling of
                        vacancies and other procedural matters are explained in Robert Constantine (ed.),
                        "Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                            Vincennes
                         University (October 16, 1807—December 11, 1811)," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 249, 256, 257, 267.
            
            
            Saturday 18th of Aprile 1812
            The Board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: John Gibson, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme
                    [McNamee], Robert Buntin, Charles Smith, Peter Jones, & John Johnson.
            On motion ordered that Gel. John Gibson be appointed president pro. tem.
            Resolved that the committee of superintendance examine the seminary building and report at the next
                    meeting the state of the carpenters work thereof—
            On motion ordered that the Board adjourn untill Wednesday next 22d ult. at thre[e] O Clock P.M.
            Wednesday aprile 22d 1812
            The Board met agreeable to adjournment— Members present: Benjamin Park[e], Nathaniel
                    Ewing, Francois Vigo, John Gibson, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, James Johnson, John Johnson.
            The President laid before the board the resignation of Jacob Kuykendal2 a member
                    of this board which was accepted— Benjamin Park & James Johnson offered their
                    excuse for not attending the semiannual meeting of the Board on the 6th of aprile 1812 which was
                    accepted.
            On motion ordered that the clerk notify the absent members that the board will proceed to elect
                    members to fill up the Vacancies in the board at the next meeting on the 27th ult.
            On motion ordered that a committee be appointed to contract with the Reverand Samuel Scott for
                    keeping the scholl3 contemplated by the Board and that they report by the next
                    [meeting]. Nathaniel Ewing & Charles Smith were appointed such comt.
            On motion ordered that the Board adjourn untill monday next the 27th ult. at two O clock.
            
               
                  2 Jacob Kuykendall had been named a trustee of 
                            Vincennes
                         University in its act of incorporation, November 29, 1806. He was re-elected to the
                        board at its meeting of September 21, 1823.
               
                  3 For background concerning Rev. Samuel Scott and the board's
                        policies concerning his "scholl," see Constantine, Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 277n, 288n.
            
            
            Monday Aprile 27th 1812
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Nathaniel Ewing,
                    Francois Vigo, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, James Johnson, John Gibsoson [sic],
                    & John Johnson.
            The committee appointed to contract with the Revd. Samuel Scott for keeping the school contemplated
                    by the board Reported that Mr. Scott agreed to keep the school agreeable to the requisition of the
                    board.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Saturday next at two O clock the 2d day of May.
            Saturday may 2d 1812
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: John Gibson, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme,
                    Robert Buntin, Charles Smith, James Johnson, & John Johnson. On motion ordered that Gel.
                    John Gibson be appointed president protem.
            The Revd. Samuel Scot [sic] having engaged to take charge of the school attached to
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     seminary agreeably to the Rules adopted for that purpose It is therefore resolved that
                    Mr. Scott have the privilige of residing in the seminary with his family and have apart of the lot
                    for a garden and that Mr. Scott shall be obliged to keep sufficient & capable assistence to
                    enable him to do justice to the students under his direction.
            The students of the latin & greek Languages are not to be incomoded by the english schollars
                    but shall be in a seperate Room. The school to commence on monday the 4th of May.4
            
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Saturday the 16th inst.
            
               
                  4 For the number and length of school terms as laid down in the
                        "Rules for the Government of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University Grammar School," see ibid., 281.
            
            
            Saturday May 16th 1812
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: John Gibson, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin,
                    Nathaniel Ewing, James Johnson, John Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorum the board adjourned without
                    day.
            Saturday August 22d 1812
            The board met agreeable to an advertisement set up by the president of the board. Members present:
                    Benjamin Park, Charles Smith, Francois Vigo, Robert Buntin, James Johnson, & John Johnson.
            There not being anough of Members present to form a quoram the board then adjourned untill Wednesday
                    next the 26th ult. at three of the clock P.M.
            Wednesday August 26th 1812
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, John Gibson, Elias McNeme,
                    Peter Jones, Charles Smith, James Johnson, Nathaniel Ewing, & John Johnson.
            The president acknowledged the following deeds in open board To wit one to Joseph Woods for S. W. qr.
                    S. 23 in the seminary Township also one to William Harrington S. W. qr. S. 12 in said Township also
                    one other to William Harrington N. E. qr. S. 14 in said Township Also one to Isaac Woods5 for S. E. qr. S. 21 in said Township.
            Samuel Hoge [Hogue] produced to the board a Transfer of his interest in S. E. qr. S. 21 to Isaac
                    Woods which said quarter section of land was purchased in the name of Isaac Woods & Samuel
                    Hoge by agreement bearing date the fifth day of November 1808 which agreement and Transfer are
                    ordered by the consent of the said S. Hoge & I. Woods to be 
                  
                     5 Isaac Woods was a member of the numerous Joseph Woods family which
                            migrated from 
                                Kentucky
                             to the 
                                Gibson County
                             area in 1807. Isaac and a brother, Samuel, took part in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign in 1811. Gil R. Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1914), 51–52.
               
                     filed among the papers of the board Also the said Samuel Hoge
                    requested that the board would Transfer by Deed his part of said qr. S. to Isaac Woods which was
                    done.
            The Board proceeded to elect two members to fill the vacancies occasioned by the resignation of
                    William Henry Harrison & John Badolet [Badollet] Whereupon counting the ballots Willson
                        Lago6 & William Jones7 were elected.
            On motion ordered that the clerk notify Wl. Lago & Wm. Jones of their election.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn without day.
            Wednesday November 10th 1812
            The board met agreeable to an advertisement. Members present: Benjamin Park, John Gibson, Robert
                    Buntin, Nathl. Ewing, James Johnson, John Johnson, & Luke Decker.
            There not being a sufficient number of Members present to form a quoram the board adjourned untill
                    Saturday next at two of the clock.
            Saturday November 14th 1812
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, Elias McNeme, Robert Buntin,
                    James Johnson, & John Johnson.
            
               
                  6 Wilson Lagow was active in 
                            Vincennes
                         civic and mercantile affairs at this time. A major in the territorial and state
                        militia, he was commissioned to receive subscriptions to the bank of 
                            Vincennes
                         in its act of incorporation (1814) and later served as manager and director of that
                        organization. He was elected a trustee of the borough of 
                            Vincennes
                         in 1815. 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, January 7, 1815, July 20, 1822. (The 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun is cited hereafter as Western Sun.) 
                            Vincennes
                         Centinel, August 5, 1820.
               
                  7 William Jones was a brother of Peter Jones, who was named a member of
                        the board of trustees in the school's act of incorporation (1806). The brothers
                        operated the firm of Peter Jones and Company until 1810, when William Jones joined Toussaint
                        Dubois in forming a new firm, "Jones and Dubois," which advertised
                        "Goods… from 
                            Philadelphia
                        " regularly in the Western Sun. This partnership lasted until 1815, when
                        Jones was named a manager of the 
                            Vincennes
                         bank. William Jones remained on the university's board until his death in
                        March, 1819. Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker (eds.), Journals of the General
                            Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805–1815 (Indiana Historical Collections,
                        Vol. XXXII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1950), 993–994.
            
            
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quoram the board adjourned untill
                    Wednesday next at a half past three of the clock the 18th Novb. 1812.
            January 13th 1813
            The board met agreeable to an advertisement of the president. Members present: Benjamin Park
                    president, John Gibson, Peter Jones, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, William Jones, Wilson Lago,
                    Francois Vigo, Nathaniel Ewing, & John Johnson.
            On motion ordered that a committee of two be appointed to confer with the Revd. Mr. Scott on the best
                    plan to furnish the School with wood and report to the next meeting— John Gibson
                    & Nathaniel Ewing were appointed.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Wednesday next the twentieth ult.
            Wednesday January 20th 1813
            The Board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, John Gibson,
                    Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme, Wilson Lago, James Johnson, &
                    [John] Johnson, and Francois Vigo.
            The president acknowledged the following deed in open board to wit To Thomas Emison for section No.
                    twenty Township two south Range eleven West of the seminary Township and the same was countersigned
                    by the Clerk.
            On motion Resolved that a committee of three members be apointed to state the seminary accounts, and
                    they are hereby ordered to make out in a proper book according to the rules of bookkeeping the
                    accounts of each individual— And they are further ordered to make the original contracts
                    with said Individuals, The accounts as kept by the Treasurer with the orders recorded on the
                    Journals of the board the data of said accounts and that the committee be authorised to have  access to the books and papers of the clerk and Treasurer8 to enable them to make out said accounts— And it is hereby ordered
                    that they receive dollars as a compensation for their Trouble & expences incident to the
                    duties required and to report the result to the next meeting of this board. Elias McNeme, James
                    Johnson, & John Johnson were apointed such committee.
            On motion ordered that the Board adjourn without day.
            Aprile 5th 1813
            This being the semiannual meeting of the board of Trusties for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University appointed by law— The Board met accordingly. Members present:
                    Benjamin Park (president), Nathaniel Ewing, Francois Vigo, Robert Buntin, James Johnson, Charles
                    Smith, Elias McNeme, & John Johnson.
            The President laid before the board the resignation of John Gibson9 a member of
                    this board which was accepted.
            The President acknowledged the following deed in open board To wit, To William Archer10 for the North East quarters of sections Number one & two in the Seminary
                    Township south of White River.
            Resolved that a committee of two be appointed to examine the state of the roof of the seminary
                    building & Report the 
                  
                     8 An account of the disposition of the board's records,
                            including the minutes books of its meetings and land sale transactions, is in Constantine
                            (ed.), "Minutes of The Board of Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University, [December 6, 1806—September 12, 1807]," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 318, and Constantine,
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 260, 261, 262, 264,
                            270.
                  
                     9 General Gibson had been one of the most active members of the board
                            of trustees since its organizational meeting in December, 1806. At the time of his
                            resignation from the board he had just completed serving nearly a year and a half as acting
                            governor of Indiana Territory. Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LIV (December. 1958), 319n.
                  
                     10 William Archer migrated from 
                                South Carolina
                             to the 
                                Princeton
                             area in 1807 and took up farming. In the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, October 9, 1819, he advertised for
                            sale seedlings from "a nursery of upwards of 200,000… apple
                            trees." Archer was one of the founders of the Cumberland Presbyterian Church in 
                                Princeton
                             (1817). Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , 40, 53; Robert Archer Woods, "Presbyterianism in 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, from 1810 to 1930," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXVI (June, 1930), 93, 122.
               
                     defect thereof to Mr. [Joshua] Bond & request him to
                    complete the same, And also report to the next meeting of the board Nathaniel Ewing & Robert
                    Buntin were appointed such committee.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Saturday next the 10th ult. at two O clock.
            Saturday 10th of Aprile 1813
            The Board met agreeably to adjournemnt. Members present: Benjamin Park, Nathal. Ewing, Elias McNeme,
                    Tousaint [Toussaints] Dubois, Robert Buntin, & John Johnson.
            There not being sufficient Members present to form a quaran the board adjourned till Saturday next
                    17th at 1 of the clock.
            Saturday 17th day of Aprile 1813
            The board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Tousaint Dubois,
                    James Johnson, Wilson Lago, Robert Buntin, Elias McNeme, Charles Smith, Nathaniel Ewing, &
                    John Johnson.
            Mr. Ewing from the committee appointed to examine the state of the seminary building reported that
                    Mr. Bond informed them that he would examine & stop the leaks in the roof & that he
                    would if the board required it proceed to finish the work if the board would give him time to send
                    for a workman to the falls.11
            
            On motion of E. McNeme ordered that the board do now proceed to the election of three members to fill
                    the seats of John Gibson resigned and Luke Decker & George Leach [or Leech] who have
                    forfeited their seats by not attending the semiannual meetings of the board agreeably to law And
                        
                  
                     11 Presumably to one of the "Falls Cities":
                                    
                        Jeffersonville, New Albany
                     , or 
                                Louisville
                            .
               
                     upon counting the ballots it appeared that Edward Scull,12 Samuel Scott,13 & John D. Hay14 were unanimously elected.
            On motion ordered that a committee be appointed to inform the Revd. S. Scott of his being elected a
                    member of the board Mr. Ewing was appointed such committee.
            Mr. Ewing the committee appointed to inform Mr. Scott of his election as a Member of the board
                    reported that he had performed that service.
            The Reverand S. Scott appeared & took his seat.
            On motion ordered that the clerk do inform Edward Scull & John D. Hay of their election.
            On motion ordered that the committee appointed on the 5th inst. to examine the state of the seminary
                    building continue as a standing committee to superintend the work of the house & request Mr.
                    Bond to make out a bill of materials wanted, & see if said Materials can be procured and
                    that Samuel Scott & Wilson Lago be added to said Committee.
            On Motion ordered that the board do adjourn without day.
            
               
                  12 Dr. Edward Scull, a native of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , served as a surgeon in the 
                            Tippecanoe
                         campaign. A duel between him and Parmenas Beckes, 
                            Knox County
                         sheriff, in which the latter was killed, was described in the Western
                            Sun, July 10, 1813. Like several easterners who were stationed at 
                            Vincennes
                         during the War of 1812, Scull joined the 
                            Vincennes
                         Subscription Library Company (June 8, 1811); he remained on the
                        university's board of trustees until April, 1815, and died in November of that year.
                        Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                United States
                             Army, from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2, 1903 (2
                        vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1903), I, 871. In this and future references to the 
                            Vincennes
                         Subscription Library Company and its members, the source is the minutes of the
                        library company, in which the editor has done considerable research. These minutes are in the
                        archives of 
                            Vincennes
                         University, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana.
               
                  13 A brief sketch about Scott and the details of his appointment as
                        "Superintendent" of the "Grammar School" which opened in
                        1811 are in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959),
                        277, n. 38, 278–283. His resignation as "Teacher in the 
                            Vincennes
                         University" was read at the meeting of August 3, 1815, but the minutes for
                        the meeting of April 6, 1818, suggest that he had resumed his teaching assignment for a brief
                        period prior to that time.
               
                  14 John D. Hay's "house" and/or tavern were
                        frequently the meeting places for the university's board of trustees and for the 
                            Vincennes
                         Subscription Library Company, of which Hay was a charter member. He had served as
                        clerk of the university board, succeeding Jonathan Jennings on November 21, 1808. Constantine,
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 345n.
            
            
            Monday the 4th of october 1813
            This being the day appointed by law for the semiannual meeting of the board. The Board met
                    accordingly. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme, Peter Jones,
                    Robert Buntin, William Jones, John D. Hay, Wilson Lago, James Johnson, Francis Vigo, & John
                    Johnson.
            Resolved that the standing committee appointed on the 5th of Aprile 1813 to superintend the Seminary
                    building be directed to enform Joshua Bond that he must finish the building of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University by the first day of December next and that if he does not finish the said
                    building by the said first day of December then and in that case the said committee be authorised to
                    employ some other carpenter to finish the said building.
            On motion ordered that the claim of Thomas Emmerson [Emison], To be discharged from the Interest on
                    his payments for the lands purchased by him from the board be laid over for farther consideration
                    untill the next meeting.
            On motion ordered that the treasurer be directed to furnish the next meeting of the board a statement
                    of the amount of interest paid by different purchasers of land from this board.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Wednesday next two weeks the 21t inst. at 2 O clock
                    P.M.
            Wednesday October 21t15 1813
            The board met agreeable to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Francois Vigo,
                    James Johnson, William Jones, Robert Buntin, & Charles Smith.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorem The board adjourned untill
                    Wednesday next 27th inst.
            
               
                  15 The datelines on the Western Sun, Saturday, October
                        16, 1813, and Saturday, October 23, 1813, indicate that the twenty-first of the month would have
                        fallen on Thursday, rather than Wednesday.
            
            
            Wednesday October 27 1813
            The board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Francois Vigo,
                    Nathaniel Ewing, John D. Hay, Robert Buntin, Charles Smith, Samuel Scott, Elias McNeme, William
                    Jones, & John Johnson.
            On motion ordered that the standing committee appointed to superintend the seminary building be
                    authorised to purchase what materials are necessary to finish the seminary building.
            On motion Resolved that each subscriber for each schollar he sends to school shall furnish on or
                    before the tenth day of November next one good waggon load or three cart loads of good sound wood,
                    to be deposited in the Enclosure of the University building in such place as the Teacher may direct.
            On motion Resolved that if any subscriber shall fail in the above, he shall be liable to pay the
                    amount that may be necessary to purchase the wood he or she ought to have furnished.
            On Motion Resolved that the committee hereinafter appointed on any failure as above shall immediately
                    proceed to purchase the wood that ought to have been furnished by such delinquent and at such
                    delinquents costs and charges.
            On Motion Resolved that Charles Smith & John D. Hay be a committee to carry the above
                    resolutions into effect.
            On motion Resolved that it shall be the duty of the Teacher of the school to keep a fair and accurate
                    account of the wood furnished by subscribers as above.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Wednesday two weeks the 10th of Novbr. 1813 at 2 O
                    clock P. M.
            Wednesday November 10th 1813
            The board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: John D. Hay, Elias McNeme, Robert Buntin,
                    & John Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quaram the board adjourned untill
                    Wednesday two weeks the 24th ist. at 2 O clock P.M.
            
            Saturday Februa[r]y 26th 1814
            The board met agreeably to an advertisement of the President. Members present: Benjamin Park
                    President, Charles Smith, Nathaniel Ewing, John D. Hay, Samuel Scott, Robert Buntin, Wm. Jones,
                    Peter Jones, & John Johnson.
            On Motion ordered that a committee of three be appointed to examine & report the situation
                    & nature of the purchases of land from the board and how & in what manner interest
                    has been charged by the Treasurer & paid by the purchaser.
            The committee Benjamin Park, Nathaniel Ewing, John D. Hay, & John Johnson.16
            
            On Motion ordered that a committee be appointed to examine the fense round the seminary building
                    & contract for the repairing the same in such manner as shall be found necessary Committee
                    Samuel Scott & Nathaniel Ewing.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn untill saturday two weeks 12th of March next.
            Saturday March 12th 1814
            The board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park, Nathl. Ewing, Robt. Buntin,
                    Jno. D. Hay, Peter Jones, Francis Vigo, Saml. Scott, & Jno. Johnson.
            On Motion Resolved that Benjamin Park & John D. Hay be a Committee for the purpose of making
                    from the books of the Treasure[r] and other documents a set of books for the sales of the seminary
                    land which have been made under the direction of the board of trusties viz: a journal &
                        ledger17 wherein each purchaser should be charged with sales of seminary
                    lands for the quantity of acres purchased by him at the price agreed on, an account of forfeitures
                    for such forfeitures as they may have incured, an interest account for 
                  
                     16 Although the minutes specify the appointment of a
                            "committee of three," Parke, as president of the board, was probably an ex
                            officio member of the committee—which would account for the four names listed
                            here.
                  
                     17 The board's decision to set up a "journal and
                            ledger" in which land sales transactions could be recorded was probably related to
                            the fact that on January 21, 1814, the office of the 
                                Knox County
                             recorder, John D. Hay, was destroyed by fire. The entries concerning land sales
                            made in the minutes book prior to this time thus took on added significance. Western Sun, January 29, 1814.
               
                     the amount of interest which may become due on each
                    payment—Also a cash account of the amount of cash received from the several purchasers
                    and an account to be called the 
                        Vincennes
                     Seminary By which all the accounts are to be closed.
            On motion ordered that the Board adjourn untill this day two weeks it being the 26th instant.
            Monday Aprail 4th 1814
            This being the semiannual Meeting of the board of Trusties of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University. Members present: Benjamin Park, president, Peter Jones, Robert Buntin,
                    Elias McNememe, Nathl. Ewing, & John Johnson.
            There not being sufficient number of Members present to form a quoram the board adjourned without
                    day.
            Saturday May 14th 1814
            The board met agreeably to an advertisement by the president. Members present: Benjamin Park
                    president, Samuel Scott, Peter Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNeme, Robert Buntin, John D. Hay,
                    & John Johnson.
            Samuel Scott gave in his excuse for not attending the semiannual Meeting on the 4th of aprile last
                    which was accepted.
            On motion ordered that the board adjourn without day.
            Monday October 3d 1814
            This being the day appointed by law for the semiannual meeting of the board of Trusties for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University—The board met accordingly. Members present: Nathaniel Ewing,
                    Tousaint Dubois, John D. Hay, Samuel T. Scott, & [John?] Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quoram the board adjourned without
                    day.
            
            Monday Aprile 3d 1815
            This being the day appointed by law for the semiannual meeting of the board of trustees of the
                    vincennes University— Members present: Benjamin Park pr., John D. Hay, Elias McNeme,
                    William Jones, Samuel T. Scott, Charles Smith, Touisaint Dubois, Nathanial Ewing, Francis Vigo,
                    & Robert Buntin.
            On Motion ordered that Benjamin Park, Nathanial Ewing, & John Johnson be appointed a
                    committee to draft a memorial to Congress on the subject of the sale of the seminary land &c
                    & that they report to the next meeting of the board.
            On Motion ordered that the board do now proceed to the election of a member in the Room of Edward
                    S[cull?] who has removed from the Territory and on counting the ballots it appeared that Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    
               18 was Unanimously elected and on motion ordered that Elias McNeme
                    be appointed a committee to inform Mr. Blackford of his Election.
            On motion ordered that the board do adjourn sine die.
            Thursday August 3d 1815
            The board met agreeably to an advertisement by the president. Members present: Benjamin Park,
                    Nathaniel Ewing, Touisant Dubois, Francois Vigo, Peter Jones, Elias McNeme, Robert Buntin, &
                    John Johnson.
            The president laid before the board a letter of Resignation of the Reved. Samuel T. Scott as Teacher
                    in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University which was accepted.
            
               
                  18 Isaac 
                            Blackford
                         was a native of 
                            New Jersey
                         and graduate of 
                            Princeton
                         whose migration to 
                            Vincennes
                         (1815) included brief stop-offs at 
                     Brookville, Vevay
                  , and 
                            Salem
                        . He served as a judge on the state supreme court from 1817 to 1852, and on the 
                            United States
                         Court of Claims, in 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., from 1855 until his death in 1859. Black-ford's efforts to secure
                        an elective office were crowned with singular failure: he was defeated for 
                            United States
                         senator by Waller Taylor (1818), William Hendricks (1825), James Noble (1826), and
                        John 
                            Tipton
                         (1832); for governor by James 
                            Brown
                         Ray (1825); and for state supreme court judge by Samuel Perkins (1852). Dorothy
                        Riker and Gayle Thornbrough (eds.), Indiana Election Returns, 1816-1851 (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. XL; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1960), xix, 127, 129, 138-139; Logan Esarey (ed.), Governors
                            Messages and Letters (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols.
                        VII, IX, XII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1922-1924), III, 43-44. 
                            Blackford
                         became a member of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Subscription Library in December, 1815, was elected as a director in February,
                        1816, and served as president from February, 1823, to February, 1831.
            
            
            On motion ordered that the standing committee appointed to superintend the seminary building report
                    by the next me[e] ting the state of the seminary Building and that they examine the contract of Mr.
                    Bond for building the seminary and also report how far the said Bond has complyed with his
                        contract.19
            
            John Johnson offered his excuse for not attending the semiannuel meeting on the 3d of aprile 1815,
                    which was accepted of by the board.
            On motion ordered that a committee be appointed to examine & receive proposals from any
                    person as a Teacher in the seminary and report the character & quallifications of such
                    applicants at the next meeting— Samuel T. Scot & E. McNemee Com.
            On motion ordered that the board do now adjourn untill thursday the 17th inst.
            Monday September 1t 1815
            This being the day appointed for the semiannual me[e]ting of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Seminary. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Robert Buntin, Peter Jones, and John Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of Members present to form a quoram. The board adjourned without
                    day.
            Monday November 6th 1815
            The Board met agreeably to an advertisement of the presendent. Members present: Benjamin Park
                    president, Robert Buntin, Francois Vigo, Peter Jones, John D. Hay, William Jones, Touisaint Dubois,
                    Charles Smith, & Nathaniel Ewing.
            James Johnson a Member of the board and Treasurer of the same sent to the board his resignation as
                    Member and Treasurer of said Board which was laid before the Board By the presedint and accepted of
                    by the board.20
            
            
               
                  19 In a petition submitted to Congress in November, 1815, it was stated
                        that "plastering, and a small portion of the carpenter's work are yet to be
                        done, to complete the building." See p. 331, note 23.
               
                  20 James Johnson was named a trustee of the university in its act of
                        incorporation and, in terms of regular attendance at meetings and service on committees, had
                        been one of the most active members.
            
            
            The Board on motion proceeded to the election of a Treasurer and on counting the Ballots it appeared
                    that Isaac Blac[k]ford was unanimously elected—
            On Motion ordered that the bord do adjourn untill thursday the 16th inst. (Novber).
            Thursday November 16th 1815
            The Board Met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Samuel T. Scott, Elias McNeme, Francois Vigo, Touisaint Dubois, Charles Smith, Peter
                    Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Robert Buntin, and John Johnson.
            The committe appointed on the 3d of august last to receive proposals from any person for Teaching the
                    school in the Seminary Reported that they had received proposals from Jesse Olds,21 Mr. [or Wm.?] Davis, & Ames Whiting22 which they laid before
                    the Board.
            On Motion Resolved that a committee be appointed to examine into the qualifications of Jesse Olds who
                    has made application for admittance as a preceptor in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University and that they report to the next meeting.
            Samuel T. Scott, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Elias McNeme, & Robert Buntin were appointed such Committee.
            On Motion ordered that the Standing committee appointed to superintend the Seminary Building be
                    requested to report at this meeting the State of the Seminary Building.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Saturday next at 2 of the Clock P.M. the 18th inst.
            Saturday November 18th 1815
            The Board Met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Nathaniel Ewing,
                    Isaac 
                  
                     21 Olds' employment as "preceptor in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University" was agreed upon at the meeting of November 18, 1815. He
                            was described as "professor in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University" at the meeting of April 1, 1816, but apparently left the
                            school soon thereafter, since the board at its meeting of December 24, 1816, appointed a
                            committee to negotiate with Samuel T. Scott "to ascertain whether he [would] again
                            undertake the Superintency [sic] of the University.…"
                  
                     22 It has not been possible to identify either Davis or Ames
                        Whiting.
               
                    
                    
                        Blackford
                    , Francis Vigo, Elias McNeme, Robert Buntin, Samuel T. Scott, William Jones, and John
                    Johnson.
            The Committee appointed on 16th instant to examine into the quallifications of Jesse Olds as a
                    preceptor in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University having Verbely reported and upon the question being Taken whether he be
                    accepted as a preceptor it was determined in the affirmative.
            On motion Resolved that a committee be appointed to assist Jesse Olds as preceptor in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University in obtaining Subscribers to the Lattin School.
            Nathanial Ewing & Robert Buntin were appointed as such committee.
            The Committee appointed to superintend the seminary building Reported, By a letter from Joshua Bond
                    stating that he would commence the finishing the work of the seminary building in ten days and
                    continue untill the same be finished.
            On Motion ordered that the board adjourn untill Wednesday next at 2 of the clock P.M. the 22d inst.
            Wednesday November 22d 1815
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Park president, Nathaniel Ewing,
                    John D. Hay, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Charles Smith, Peter Jones, Robert Buntin, & John Johnson.
            Mr. Park from the Committee appointed to draft a petition to congress23 relative
                    to sale of the Seminary land Reported a petition on that subject which was read and adopted by the
                    board.
            
               
                  23 This petition reviewed the progress made by the board of trustees in
                        financing the school building ("forty four by sixty four feet, three stories (including
                        the basement) high") and in opening a "grammar school," but
                        acknowledged that "the school [had not] succeeded as well as could have been
                        wished." Among factors responsible for the latter condition were "the
                        inconvenience and danger… to which the 
                            Wabash
                         settlements were exposed,… the late Indian War," and the
                        difficulty of raising funds by leasing land to the "emigrants who prefer a purchase at
                        one of the Land offices, or an unauthorized settlement on the public lands." The
                        solution, concluded the petition, lay in Congress' authorizing the board of trustees to
                            sell "all the lands granted for the use of a Seminary of learning
                        in the District of 
                            Vincennes
                        … at the minimum price… of five dollars per acre."
                        The petition was referred to the House Committee on Public Lands on December 11, 1815; the
                        committee's report (February 15, 1816) declared it "inexpedient to
                        grant… the prayer of the memorialists…." Clarence Edwin Carter
                        (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            , Vol. VIII, The Territory of Indiana, 1810-1816 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1939), 357-360, 388.
            
            
            On Motion ordered that the clerk make out two copies of said petition & that they be signed
                    by the president and countersigned by the clerk and that one copy be forwarded to our Delegate in
                        Congress24 & the other to the speaker of the house of
                    Representatives.
            On Motion ordered that the Board adjourn without day.
            Monday Aprile 1t 1816
            This being the day fixed by Law for the semi annuel meeting of the board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University The board met accordingly. Members present: Benjamin Park president, William
                    Jones, John D. Hay, Nathaniel Ewing, Charles Smith, Samuel T. Scott, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , & Peter Jones.
            On Motion Resolved that Mr. Jesse Olds heretofore appointed a professor in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University; have permission immediately to take possession of the University building
                    and occupy the whole of it except such part as may be necessarry for the work men engaged in
                    finishing the building.
            On Motion ordered that the board do adjourn untill Saturday next at 2 o clock.
            Saturday Aprile 6th 1816
            The board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Robert Buntin, Charles Smith, John D. Hay,
                    Nathl. Ewing, Francois Vigo, Peter Jones, Samuel T. Scott, & Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    . The president of the Board not attending.
            On Motion Resolved that Samuel T. Scot be appointed as president pro Tem.
            On Motion Resolved that Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     be appointed as clerk pro tem.
            
               
                  24 The delegate in Congress was Jonathan Jennings, who had served briefly
                        as clerk of the board of trustees (August 27, 1807, to November 21, 1808) and whose
                        "conduct" in that position was investigated by a special committee of the
                        board. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958),
                        355n, and Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 258,
                        263.
            
            
            On Motion Resolved that the board proceed to the election of three members of the board in the Room
                        of.25 Whereupon counting the ballots it appeared that Charles Hinkly,26 David Raymond,27 & John Baddolet28 were duly elected.
            On Motion Resolved that John D. Hay, Peter Jones, & Robert Buntin be appointed a committee to
                    inform those gentlemen of their appointment.
            Mr. Thomas Emmison presented an account for plank with a certificate of the committee which was
                    allowed—
            On Motion Resolved that Mr. Jesse Olds professor in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University have leave to teach twenty English schollars untill the number of his lattin
                    students amount to twelve then Mr. Olds must either employ an assistant to be approved of by the
                    board to Teach the English schollars in a seperate room or dismiss thim.
            On motion ordered that the board do adjourn with out day.
            April 27, 1816
            The Board met agreeably to the notice of the President. Members present: Benjamin Parke, President,
                    Robert Buntin, 
                  
                     25 The three vacancies were created by the board's failure to
                            name successors to Jacob Kuykendall, who resigned April 22, 1812, James Johnson, who
                            resigned November 6, 1815, and Wilson Lagow, who had not attended a meeting since October 4,
                            1813.
                  
                     26 Hinkly, or "Hinckley," as the name appears in the
                            records of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company (January 6, 1816), apparently did not accept membership on the
                            board of trustees. At the following meeting (April 27, 1816) a list of members of the board
                            was drawn up for the purpose of assigning "Visitors" to the school, and
                            Hinkly's name was not included.
                  
                     27 At the time of his election to the university board of trustees,
                            Raymond was serving as territorial judge of the First Circuit Court. He was elected by the
                            Indiana General Assembly (December 20, 1816) as judge of the Second Circuit Court, a
                            position he held until his resignation in January, 1818. He was not listed as having
                            attended a single meeting of the board of trustees and was replaced because of
                            "removal" from 
                                Vincennes
                             at the board meeting of April 6, 1818. Esarey, Governors Messages
                                and Letters, III, 17; Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), The
                                Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809-1816 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1934), 822.
                  
                     28 John Badollet was named a member of the board of trustees in the
                            school's act of incorporation; his first resignation was read at the meeting of
                            August 2, 1811. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (December, 1958), 320n, and Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV
                            (September, 1959), 285. Badollet's second resignation was accepted at the meeting
                            of January 5, 1821.
               
                     Jno. D. Hay, Nathl. Ewing, Elias McNamee, Francis Vigo, Saml.
                    T. Scott, Charles Smith.
            On motion Resolved that Chas. Smith be appointed Clerk pro Tem.
            Charles Smith and Benjamin Parke, a committee heretofore appointed by the Board to investigate and
                    restate the accounts of Thomas and James Emmerson [Emison] for and on account of the purchase of
                    land by them, of the Board, reported as follows Viz: That the Ballance due by James Emmerson is
                    $240.24 & that the Ballance in favor of Thomas Emmerson is 93.84 [93.04?] which
                    will more fully appear by a particular statement of the accounts by said committee, accompanying
                    this report. But as Thomas Emison is considered responsible and has assumed the payment of the
                    whole, there appears to be a balance against him of $93.04.29
            
            Whereupon on motion Resolved that the Board concur in the said report. And the Statements of the said
                    accounts were ordered to be filed.
            On Motion Resolved that for the nonattendance of any member of this Board at the hour appointed, he
                    shall be fined at the discretion of the Board unless a reasonable excuse be given. F. Vigo, E.
                    McNamee, & R. Buntin, respectively stated their reasons for there nonattendance on the 1st
                    Monday in April Inst. which were received & allowed by the Board as sufficient—
            On Motion Ordered that a Committee of four members be appoint[ed] to report the Books classical
                    & scientifical that ought to be read & studied in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University— and that Messr. Scott, Badollet, 
                        Blackford
                    , McNamee, be a committee for that purpose.
            Ordered that the Members of the Board of Trustees be divided into three classes and that it shall be
                    the duty of the first class to visit the school at the University Monthly for the three succeeding
                    Months. The second class to in like manner for the three Months then next succeeding, & the
                    third class to visit in like manner for the three months then next succeeding. That they examine at
                    their discretion the state of the school, the progress of the scholars, the conduct of the Teacher,
                    & generally whatever in their opinion may be 
                  
                     29 The terms of the original purchases of land from the university by
                            Thomas and James Emison are described in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LIV (December, 1958), 344n.
               
                     necessary towards the prosperity of the institution, and should
                    they be of opinion that an amendant to the rules, a change in the course of education or of the
                    conduct of the Teacher be necessary that they report the same specially to the Board—
            Ordered That the President arrange the classes, designate the periods for their visits, and notify
                    the Members thereof. The President then arranged the Members of the Board into classes as follows
                    viz:
            
               
                  1st Class
                  2d Class
                  3d Class
               
               
                  Messr. Scott
                  Messr. Blackford
                  Messr. Baddlet
               
               
                  McNamee
                  Raymond
                  Vigo
               
               
                  Buntin
                  P. Jones
                  Johnson
               
               
                  Wm. Jones&
                  Ewing &
                  Parke
               
               
                  Smith
                  Hay
                   
               
            
            and that the first class visit the school the first friday in May, June, & July; the second
                    the first friday in each of the three succeeding months, & the third the first friday in the
                    three succeeding months, when the first class, shall again commence their visits, and be succeeded
                    by the others in the Manner before stated.
            The Board adjourned.
            December 22, 1816
            The Board met agreeably to the notice of the President. Members present: Benjamin Parke, President,
                    Robert Buntin, and John Johnson.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorum, On motion the Board
                    adjourned till tuesday next.
            Tuesday 24 December 1816
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Parke, President, Robert Buntin,
                    John D. Hay, John Johnson, Charles Smith, Elias McNamee, Peter Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, William
                    Jones.
            
            On motion Resolved that a committee be appointed to wait on the Revd. S. T. Scott & ascertain
                    whether he will again undertake the superintency of the University—Whereupon Elias
                    McNamee & Charles Smith were appointed that committee.
            On Motion Resolved that the Board adjourn untill Tuesday next at 3 Oclock P.M.
            Tuesday 7 January 1817
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Members Present: Benjamin Parke President, William Jones,
                    Elias McNamee, Nathl. Ewing, Charles Smith, Peter Jones, John Badollet, John D. Hay, Saml. T. Scott.
            On Motion Resolved that Charles Smith be appointed Secy. Pro tem.
            The Committee appointed to wait on the Revd. S. T. Scott reported that they had not yet performed
                    that duty and were On motion continued to the next meeting.
            On Motion Resolved that the committee, appointed & continued to confer with Mr. Scott be
                    charged with the additional duty of enquiring as to the probable number of scholars that may be made
                    up for the school.
            On Motion Resolved that this Board will grant no more Leases for the Seminary Land.
            On Motion Resolved that John Johnson be appointed the agent of this institution, for the purpose of
                    taking charge of the Siminary Land, and preventing the wast[e] or destruction of the timber,
                    & also to enquire into the state of the leases already given, for quarter Sections of the
                    said land and that he be requested to report from time to time to this Board, and that he be
                    authorised, to appoint such agent or agents under him as he may think proper either to prevent the
                    future destruction on the land or to prosecute those who may have heretofore trespassed thereon.30
            
            The Board adjourned to this day two weeks 2 Oclock P.M.
            
               
                  30 The various factors which had operated against the board's
                        efforts to lease land are described in the petition to Congress adopted at the meeting of
                        November 15, 1817.
            
            
            Tuesday 21 January 1817
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Members present: Benjamin Parke President, John D. Hay, John
                    Badollet, Charles Smith, Samuel T. Scott, William Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Peter Jones, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .
            On Motion Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     was appointed Clerk protem.
            On Motion Resolved that a committee be appointed to examine and restate the accounts of Hugh McGary
                    & Samuel Hogue31 and report to the next meeting. And Benjamine Parke
                    & Charles Smith were appointed that committee.
            The Treasurer having reported that it appeared from the Books of the Board kept by the late Treasurer
                    that Robert Anderson has completed his payments for the N. E. qr. 27, T. 2 R.11W, Wherefore it is
                    ordered that the presedent of the Board execute a deed of conveyance for the above mention[ed] tract
                    of land and the said conveyance was accordingly duly executed by the President, in presence of the
                    Board &c countersigned by the clerk According to the rules of the Board—
            On Motion, Resolved that the committee heretofore appointed to ascertain what number of scholars can
                    be procured for the support of a school in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University have time untill the next meeting to make their report.
            The Board adjourned till next tuesday 2 Oclock P.M.
            Tuesday 28 January 1817
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke President, Robert Buntin, Charles
                    Smith, Francis Vego, John D. Hay.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a quorum, The Board adjourned till
                    Saturday next 2 Oclock P.M.
            
               
                  31 The "accounts" of Hogue and McGary, both pioneers of
                        the 
                            Princeton
                         area, were recorded in the minutes book by the treasurer as payments on their land
                        were received. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September,
                        1959), 264n, 270.
            
            
            Saturday 1 Feby. 1817
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, Prest., Nathl. Ewing, Charles Smith,
                    William Jones, Elias McNamee, Saml. T. Scott, John D. Hay, Robert Buntin, Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .
            The committee heretofore appointed to examine & restate the accounts of Samuel Hogue and Hugh
                    McGary with the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, reported that there is a ballance due from the said Hogue of
                    $27.56, as appears by the statement of the committee, accompanying the report; whereupon
                    the Board concurred in said report.
            On motion Resolved that a committee be appointed to examine & restate the accounts of Isaac 
                        Montgomery
                    
               32 with the University, and report to the next meeting; and Messrs.
                    Smith, Scott, and Parke were appointed that committee.
            On motion Resolved that the Treasurer inform Thomas Emmerson of the true state of his accounts with
                    the University & demand payment of the ballance due.
            The committee heretofore appointed to confer with the Revd. Samuel T. Scott as to his taking charge
                    of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, & to ascertain the probable number of scholars that could be
                    obtained, were discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
            Whereupon the Board adjourned until the 6 day of this month.
            6 February 1817
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, President, Charles Smith, Peter
                    Jones, Robert Buntin, J. D. Hay, Elias McNamee, Nathl. Ewing, John Badollet, Francis Vigo, Isc.
                    Blackford.
            On Motion Resolved That a committee be appointed to procure subscriptions for scholars in the 
                        Vincennes
                     seminary, & Smith, 
                        Blackford
                    , & McNamee were appointed that committee.
            
               
                  32 Isaac 
                            Montgomery
                        's purchase of land from the university (1807) and a brief sketch of his
                        career are in Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958),
                        333n. He was elected to membership on the board at the meeting of June 20, 1818, but attended
                        only one meeting and was replaced at the meeting of June 26, 1820.
            
            
            On Motion Resolved that the committee heretofore appointed to superintend the University building, be
                    instructed to call upon Mr. Bond & urge him to finish the work.
            The Board adjourned until the 11th Feby. 1817.
            Tuesday February 11th 1817
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, President, J. Badollet, Elias
                    McNamee, John D. Hay—
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a Quorum, the Board adjourned until
                    the 18th Inst.
            February 18th 1817
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke President, Saml. T. Scott, John
                    Badollet, Chs. Smith, E. McNamee, N. Ewing, William Jones, John D. Hay—
            On motion ordered that J. D. Hay be appointed Clerk pro. tem.
            On motion, Resolved that hereafter the price of Tuition in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University yearly shall be for the Latin & Greek languages &
                    mathematics $25. & for Geography & English grammar
                        $15.00—33
            
            There being no more business, The Board adjourned until the third monday in March next.
            Monday the 17th March 1817.
            This being the day to which the Board adjourned at their last meeting, the following members were
                    present, viz: Benjamin Parke, President, John D. Hay, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, Nathl. Ewing,
                    Isc. Blackford, but there not being a sufficient number present to form a Quorum, The meeting was
                    adjourned.
            
               
                  33 The original "price of Tuition" for "the
                        Latin and Greek languages & mathematics" was $18 per year.
                        Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 281.
            
            
            Monday 7th April 1817.
            This being the day appointed by Law for the meeting of the Board, the following members were present,
                    viz: Benjamin Parke, President, John D. Hay, William Jones, Samuel T. Scott, Peter Jones, Nathaniel
                    Ewing, John Badollet, Isc. Blackford—
            The President laid before the Board the resignation of Mr. John Johnson, as Clerk of the Board. On
                    motion, Isc. Blackford was appointed Clerk.
            On motion, Messrs. Parke, Scott, and 
                        Blackford
                     were appointed a committee to examine the vouchers, accounts &c of the late
                    Treasurer, and make report thereon.
            On motion, Mr. Scott was appointed a committee to procure the erection of two small houses of
                    convenience for the use of the scholars, on the University lot—also to have the outside
                    fence of the said lot repaired—also to cause a fence of posts & rails to be made
                    across the said lot—and also to have a door made in the partition between the two lower
                    Rooms on the North end of the University building.
            On motion, The Committee of Superintendence of the University Building were required to cause the
                    said building to be finished as soon as possible by Mr. Bond, the person with whom the contract for
                    that purpose, was made, or by some other person.
            There being no more business the Board adjourned until the in May next.
            Saturday 8th November 1817.
            The Board met agreeably to the advertisement of the President. Present: Benjn. Parke, President,
                    Samuel T. Scott, Peter Jones, Charles Smith, Robert Buntin, Isc. Blackford.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to proceed to business, The meeting was
                    adjourned until the 11th Instant.
            Tuesday 11th November 1817.
            This being the day to which the meeting of the Board was adjourned, The following members appeared:
                    Benjamin  Parke, President, Saml. T. Scott, Charles Smith,
                    Nathl. Ewing, Peter Jones, Isc. Blackford.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a Quorum to do business, The meeting
                    adjourned until saturday next.
            Saturday 15th November 1817.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, Presidt., John D. Hay, Charles
                    Smith, Nathl. Ewing, Saml. T. Scott, Peter Jones, William Jones, & Isc. Blackford.
            A memorial to Congress was presented by Mr. Parke for the consideration of the Board, in the
                    following words,
            To the honorable the Senate & House of Representatives of the 
                        United States
                    , in Congress assembled—
            The Petition of the Board of Trustees for the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, respectfully sheweth:34
            
            That by an act of Congress, making provision for the disposal of the public lands, in the Indiana
                    Territory, passed the 26th day of March 1804,35 an entire Township, to be
                    located by the Secretary of the Treasury, was reserved for the use of a seminary of
                    learning— Under the authority of that Law, the Secretary of the Treasury, selected
                    Town-[ship] 2 south, Range 11 West of the second principal meridian in the district of 
                        Vincennes
                    — Believing that they had the necessary authority to dispose of all or any
                    portion of the land, for the purposes contemplated by Congress, the General Assembly of the Indiana
                    Territory, in the year 1806, enacted a Law for establishing a University at 
                        Vincennes
                    , appointing Trustees to carry the same into effect & authorizing the sale of
                    4000 acres, for the purpose of putting the Institution into immediate operation— That a
                    quantity of land has been sold by the Board of Trustees, the title to the 
                  
                     34 This petition was presented by Senator Waller Taylor and referred
                            to the Senate Committee on Public Lands on December 19, 1817. The committee reported a
                            negative resolution granting "the petitioners leave to withdraw their
                            petition" on January 12, 1818, and the committee's resolution was adopted
                            by the Senate on January 13, 1818. U.S., Annals of the Congress of the 
                                    United States
                                , 15th Cong., 1st Sess., 1817-1818, I, 62, 94, 109.
                  
                     35 Carter, Territorial Papers, Vol. VII, The Territory of Indiana, 1800-1816 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1939), 178.
               
                     purchasers confirmed by an act of Congress passed the 27th day
                    of April 1816,36 & the amount received on account of the sale, disbursed
                    towards the erection of a spacious building, suitable for the purposes of a public
                    school.— Your Petitioners would further respectfully represent, that with the view of
                    obtaining an active fund for the benefit of the Institution, the Board of Trustees, conformably to
                    the provisions of the act of Incorporation, offerred to lease, in quarter sections the remaining
                    part of the Township— The Country however must be settled, & improvements
                    considerably advanced, before any reliance can be placed on a fund derived from that source. Those
                    possessing the means, will purchase; others confiding in the indulgence of the Government,37 will spread themselves along the frontiers on the public lands; &
                    thousands now prefer the latter, to a lease on liberal terms of the land appropriated for the use of
                    the University. Few leases being taken, & believing the arrangement likely to prove
                    unproductive, at least for many years, the Board have for the present abandoned the measure. Having
                    no other means than the prices of Tuition for the support of Teachers, the Board have been able to
                    open a grammar school only, & many years must elapse, before such a number of schollars will
                    offer, as would justify the employment of Teachers in the various & higher branches of
                    literature & philosophy. Had the Board the ability of procuring a competent library
                    & philosophical apparatus, & of supporting the necessary professors, the Institution
                    might shortly be rendered respectable & advantageous to the country— This
                    desirable object can only be attained by the sale of the Seminary land, from which a fund might be
                    immediately realized, without impairing or hazarding the principal; that would be amply sufficient
                    for all the purposes of a useful & splendid establishment— Your Petitioners would
                    therefore respectfully submit to the wisdom 
                  
                     36 U.S., Annals of Congress, 14th Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1815-1816, pp. 1877-1878.
                  
                     37 Since 1804 the national government had sold public land in minimum
                            tracts of 160 acres at a minimum price of $2 per acre payable in installments
                            over a four-year period and with "a year of grace" beyond the fourth year
                            before forfeiture. In spite of this "painless payment plan" the number of
                            delinquent public-land purchasers increased alarmingly prior to and during the War of 1812,
                            and, to avoid the human misery and political repercussions of mass forfeitures, the
                            "indulgence of the Government" was displayed in a succession of
                            "stay laws" or relief acts, passed by Congress for the benefit of
                            delinquent public-land purchasers, and in the policy of ignoring the legal provision for
                            using military forces to evict squatters. R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest:
                                Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1950), I, 103-107.
               
                     of Congress, the propriety of selling the ballance of the
                        land38 in the seminary Township, reserved by the Act of March 1804; vesting
                    the amount in the stock of such Bank or Banks as Congress might select for that purpose; &
                    that the interest accruing from the stock should be vested in the Board of Trustees, for the use of
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     University.— Your Petitioners for the information of Congress, touching the
                    principles upon which the Institution is founded, beg leave to annex the act for incorporating the 
                        Vincennes
                     University."— Which Memorial being considered, was approved by the
                    Board; & the President requested to forward a copy thereof to Congress—
            The Board then adjourned.
            Monday 6th April 1818.
            This being the semi-annual meeting of the Board of Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, the following members appeared, to wit: Benjamin Parke, President, William
                    Jones, Nathaniel Ewing, Samuel T. Scott, John Badollet, Robert Buntin, Francis Vego, &
                    Charles Smith.
            The clerk being absent, Charles Smith was appointed clerk pro. Tem.
            On motion—Whereas The Revd. Samuel T. Scott, having announced to the Board, that he should
                    not continue in the charge of the grammar school, longer than the period for which he is
                    engaged—
            Therefore Resolved, That a Teacher competent to the care and instruction of the said school, be
                    procured with as little delay as possible.
            Resolved, That if a sufficiency of scholars to the grammar school, for the decent support of an
                    Instructor cannot be obtained, That the Board will permit of the admission of as many scholars to a
                    common english school,39 as the teacher can instruct—
            
               
                  38 The "ballance of the land" amounted to roughly 19,000
                        acres. Under the authority of its act of incorporation and a special act of the territorial
                        legislature (December 19, 1810), the board had sold only 4,160 of the 23,040 acres included in
                        the congressional land grant of 1804. Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LV (September, 1959), 270n.
               
                  39 For the board's original policy regarding a "common
                        English School," as contrasted with a "Grammar School," see
                        Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (December, 1958), 324n, and
                        Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September, 1959), 279.
            
            
            Resolved, That should the accomplishment of the object above stated, be facilitated by the employment
                    of a Teacher, able to teach the french language,40 as well as the other branches
                    of learning now taught at the University, That a french school shall also be opened in conjunction
                    with the grammar school—
            Resolved, That should a french school be established, the reception of students to the grammar
                    & french schools, shall be preferred.—
            Resolved That the President take immediate measures, to obtain a Teacher conformably to the above
                        resolutions.41
            
            The death of James Johnson, John Johnson, Peter Jones, & the removal of David Raymond, having
                    occasioned four vacancies; the Board proceeded to the election of four members, when, upon counting
                    the ballots; it appeared that Alexander Wolcott,42 William C. Lane,43 Jeremiah Wood,44 & George Ewing,45 were duly elected.
            
               
                  40 At its meeting of January 26, 1811, the board had adopted a committee
                        report which "consider[ed] it unnecessary at present to establish a school for teaching
                        the French language as it is not known that there is any demand for a school for that
                        purpose." Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LV (September,
                        1959), 278.
               
                  41 Not the least of the university's troubles during this period
                        was growing competition from schools conducted by individual masters or sponsored by religious
                        organizations. As noted in the Introduction such schools based their appeal to parents on
                        various grounds. Some were cheap ($4 per quarter for geography, grammar and
                        arithmetic); others had "curriculum flexibility" (plain and ornamental
                        needlework, French, music, drawing and painting); and at least one was
                        "life-oriented" (a "Night School… where the most useful
                        and necessary branches of learning" were taught). Western Sun,
                        December 21, 1822, October 18, 1823, November 20, 1824.
               
                  42 Alexander Wolcott was a native of 
                            Connecticut
                         who served as a surgeon in the army from March, 1812, to April, 1817. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                United States
                             Army, I, 1053. An advertisement in the Western Sun,
                        August 2, 1817, stated that "Doctor A. Wolcott, Late Surgeon in the U.S. Army, offers
                        his professional services to the citizens of 
                            Vincennes
                         and its vicinity…."
               
                  43 An advertisement in the Western Sun, April 2, 1814,
                        announced that William Carr Lane would be "associated" with Elias McNamee, a
                        physician, in "professional business." Lane attended no meetings of the board
                        of trustees between his election and his replacement at the meeting of August 22, 1818.
               
                  44 Wood was a merchant whose advertisements of "an assortment of
                        Medicines… at the stand of Hale & Wood" appeared occasionally in the
                            Western Sun (March 2, 1816, January 3, 1818). His attendance at the
                        board's meetings was noted for the last time on January 26, 1821, but there is no
                        reference in the minutes to an election to replace him. The unidentified vacancy which appears
                        in the minutes of the meeting of September 21, 1823, was possibly created by his death or
                        failure to attend the required number of consecutive meetings.
               
                  45 George Ewing was a 
                            Vincennes
                         merchant and a director of the bank of 
                            Vincennes
                        . He attended only two meetings of the board of trustees. Ewing later played an
                        active part in several 
                            Vincennes
                         cultural projects, including the subscription library, the Historical and
                        Antiquarian Society, and the "free school" movement. Western
                        Sun, February 15, 1840, July 11, 1841.
            
            
            Charles Smith, rendered his excuse, as did also Robert Buntin & Francois Vigo, for being
                    absent from the semiannual meeting in April last, & which being considered by the Board, was
                    deemed sufficient.
            The Board adjourned.
            May 30th 1818
            Special meeting of the Board of Trustees by Virtue of an advertisement of the President. Members
                    present: Parke, Wood, N. Ewing, Badollett, Scott, Buntin, Smith, McNamee, and Hay.
            The Clerk of the Board being absent, ordered that Jeremiah Wood be appointed Clerk pro tempore.
            The President informed the Board that the object of this special meeting was to arrest the progress
                    of depredations now committing on the timbers of the Seminary Lands.46
            
            On motion Resolved that a committee of inquiry, consisting of three members of the Board, be
                    appointed to examine the said Lands and report the situation of them on, or before, the 20th of June
                    next.
            The President appointed John Badollet, Samuel T. Scott, and Robert Buntin, that committee.
            On motion, Resolved that the Board adjourn till saturday the 13th day of June next.
            Saturday June 13th 1818.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: B. Parke Pres't., N. Ewing, R. Buntin, J.
                    D. Hay, E. McNamee, Samuel T. Scott, Francois Vigo, John Badollet, Charles Smith, & Jeremiah
                    Wood.
            The Clerk being again absent, Jeremiah Wood was reappointed Clerk pro tempore.
            The Committee appointed to examine into the State of the seminary Lands reported in part, and
                    obtained further time to complete their Report.
            
               
                  46 For a more detailed description of the nature of the
                        "depradations now committing on the timbers of the Seminary Lands," see the
                        petition to Congress of December 17, 1818, p. 352.
            
            
            On motion, Resolved that a committee of three be appointed to wait on M. Jeanjean47 to ascertain his views as a teacher in the Seminary and examine his qualifications for
                    discharging that duty, and report at the next meeting.
            The President appointed Badollet, Scott, & McNamee that Committee.
            On motion, The President was added to the above committee.
            Resolved that the Board adjourn till Saturday the 20th Inst. at 3 Oclock P.M.
            Saturday June 20th 1818
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Members Present: B. Parke Prest., J. Badollet, R. Buntin, E.
                    McNamee, George Ewing, Nathl. Ewing, S. T. Scott, F. Vigo, Ch. Smith, J. D. Hay, & Jeremiah
                    Wood.
            The Clerk still being absent, J. Wood was again ordered to act as Clerk pro tem.
            On motion, Resolved that the Committee appointed to wait on Mr. Jeanjean, have further time to
                    perform that duty. The Board consented to receive the report next meeting.
            Resolved that the committee appointed to examine into the State of the Seminary Lands, have further
                    time to make their report.
            On motion, Resolved that, whenever a motion is made, other than for adjournment, it shall be
                    committed to writing.
            
               
                  47 The 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, August 1, 1818, carried the notice that "The Rev. Jean
                        Jean, Late from 
                            France
                        , where he devoted a number of years to the instruction of youth in most of the
                        polite branches of education, offers his services in the same line to the inhabitants of 
                            Vincennes
                        ." The school was to be limited to twenty-five pupils "to do
                        justice" to them, and "whereas too great a variety of pursuits would only tend
                        to mar their progress, and to confuse his attention, he [i.e., Rev. Jean Jean] will confine
                        himself to the following branches, viz: Latin & French Grammars, Geography, &
                        History." No students were to be admitted to the school who were "not
                        sufficiently conversent in Reading and Writing to commence at once the proposed
                        course." Classes were to be held "3 hours in the morning, viz: from 9
                        o'clock until 12 and as many in the afternoon, viz: from 2 o'clock until
                        five." "The anxiety of parents" was to be "gratified by
                        public examinations," and Saturdays would be "the only holidays in the
                        week." The "terms per quarter" were "Either French or Latin
                        Grammar, $6.00; Both, $10.00; French language, geography and history,
                        $8.00. Exclusive of every furniture to be paid always in advance." The Western Sun of September 12, 1818, announced that "next Sunday, the
                        13th inst. the Rev. Jean Jean, will preach in the Roman chapel at 4 o'clock
                        P.M."
            
            
            On motion, Resolved that the Board now proceed to the election of a member to fill the place of
                    Doctor A. Wolcott, who refuses to serve as a member of this Body. Accordingly the Board proceeded to
                    the election, when on counting the votes it appeared that Isaac 
                        Montgomery
                     was unanimously elected.
            On motion Resolved that the president inform him of his election, as a member of this Board.
            Resolved that the Board adjourn till the 6th day of July next.
            Monday July 6th 1818
            Members convened agreeably to adjournment viz: John Badollet, John D. Hay, & Jeremiah Wood.
            There not being a quorum to transact business the meeting was adjourned till monday the 13th Instant.
            Monday 13 July 1818.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a Board, the meeting adjourned until
                    Wednesday the 29th Inst.
            Wednesday 29 July 1818.
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, President, John Badollet, John D.
                    Hay, Charles Smith, Nathl. Ewing, George Ewing, Jeremiah Wood, & Isc. Blackford.
            Mr. Badollet from the committee heretofore appointed to wait upon Mr. Jean Jean, relative to his
                    taking charge of a french school in the University, Reported very favorably of that gentleman.
            Whereupon on motion Resolved, That the Revd. _____ Jean Jean, be and he is hereby appointed Teacher
                    of the french language in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University; That he be authorized also to teach any other language, together with such
                    of the  sciences as he may think proper; & that Messrs.
                    Badollet & 
                        Blackford
                     be a committee to wait upon that gentleman & inform him of his appointment
                    & also invite him to attend the next meeting of the Board.
            On motion Resolved That if any member of this Board be absent at the hour fixed upon for any stated
                    or adjourned meeting, he shall be fined one dollar, unless a satisfactory excuse can be given for
                    such absence; & that such fines be appropriated for defraying the expences of a room for the
                    meeting of the Board &c.
            There being no more business, the Board adjourned until saturday next at 3 Oclock P.M.
            Saturday 1 August 1818.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to form a Board, the meeting adjourned, until
                    saturday the twenty second Instant.
            Saturday 22nd August 1818
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, Prest., Nathaniel Ewing, Samuel T.
                    Scott, John D. Hay, Jeremiah Wood, George Ewing, Charles Smith, Isc. Blackford.
            Messrs. Benjn. Parke, Geo. Ewing, & Chas. Smith were excused for their absence from the last
                    meeting.
            On Motion, Resolved that the Treasurer be & he is hereby directed to collect the fines
                    incurred by any of the members, on account of their absence from any meeting of the Board.
            The President informed the meeting, that there was a vacancy in the Board of Trustees, occasioned by
                    the removal of William C. Lane. Whereupon, On Motion The Board proceeded to the election of a member
                    to supply such vacancy, & upon counting the ballots, Moses Tabbs48 was
                    declared duly elected.— The President was requested to inform Mr. Tabbs of his election.
            
               
                  48 Moses Tabbs was practicing law in 
                            Vincennes
                         at the time he was a member of the board of trustees. Western
                        Sun, July 31, 1819, and July 12, 1823. His resignation was read at the meeting of April 2,
                        1821.
            
            
            There being no more business, the Board adjourned sine die.
            
            Monday 5th October 1818.
            This being the day for the semiannual meeting of the Trustees of the University, the following
                    members of the Board appeared, viz: Nathaniel Ewing, Isaac 
                        Montgomery
                    , Charles Smith, Elias McNamee.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to do business, the meeting adjourned sine die.
            
            Saturday 12th December 1818.
            Agreeably to a public notice of the President, the following members appeared viz: Benjamin Parke
                    Prest., John D. Hay, & Charles Smith.
            There not being a sufficient number of members present to transact business, the meeting adjourned
                    until Wednesday next.
            Wednesday 15th December 1818.
            Agreeably to adjournment the Board met. Present: Benjamin Parke President, Charles Smith, William
                    Jones, Robert Buntin, Elias McNamee, John D. Hay, Fran$cLois Vigo, Jeremiah Wood.
            On motion, Resolved that Mr. Bennet,49 who is at present teaching an English
                    school, in the University building, be permitted to continue the same, during the pleasure of the
                    Board.
            
               
                  49 Available records do not indicate the dates of Bennet's
                        appointment or resignation, but beginning with the issue of October 31, 1818, and for several
                        issues thereafter, the Western Sun carried an advertisement by "Mr.
                        Bennet," who planned to "open a school for Gentlemen and Ladies… in
                        the Seminary of 
                            Vincennes
                        ." Bennet promised to give "the strictest attention" to
                        his students' "morals and manners" and to "improve [their]
                        minds in the several branches which they my [sic] pursue." The
                        several branches included reading, spelling, writing, grammar, geography, arithmetic, history,
                        rhetoric, and surveying.
            
            
            On motion, Resolved that a Committee, consisting of three members be appointed by the President to
                    draft a petition to Congress for the sale of the seminary lands & that the Committee report
                    at the next meeting. Whereupon John Badolet, Elias McNamee, and Jeremiah Wood, were appointed that
                    Committee.
            An application of the managers of the Theatrical society50 for leave to fit up a
                    room in the University building, for the use of the society, was read, and rejected.
            The Board adjourned until friday evening next at six Oclock.
            Friday 17th December 1818.
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke, President, Charles Smith, Elias
                    McNamee, Robert Buntin, Moses Tabbs, John Badollet, John D. Hay, George Ewing, Jeremiah Wood,
                    & Francis Vigo.
            The committee appointed to draft a petition to Congress relative to the sale of the seminary lands,
                    Reported as follows Viz:
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     University 17th December 1818.
            To the Senate & House of Representatives of the 
                        United States
                     in Congress assembled,
            The Memorial of the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, respectfully represents—
            That by an act of Congress passed on the 26th day of March, Eighteen hundred & four, for the
                    disposal of the public lands in the Indiana Territory, an entire Township of six miles square, was
                    reserved for the use of a Seminary of Learning; That under the authority of that Law, the Secretary
                    of the Treasury, selected Township Number Two, south, in Range Number Eleven West of the second
                    principal meridian 
                  
                     50 A theatrical society had been formed in 
                                Vincennes
                             as early as 1814. The Western Sun frequently carried
                            announcements of the meetings of the organization, letters describing its
                            "exhibitions," and advertisements of such presentations as John Bull, or The Freeman's Fireside; 'Tis All a Farce; Speed the
                                Plough; and Fortune's Frolic, The Poor Gentleman. See
                            the Western Sun, November 14, 1818, January 9, 23, May 15, October 23,
                            1819. During the spring and summer of 1820 a "Company from 
                                Kentucky
                            " gave performances of The Adopted Child, or, 
                                    Milford
                                 Castle; The Miser; The Beehive; and The Jew, or a School
                                for Christians. Western Sun, May 27, June 3, 10, 1820.
               
                     of the District of 
                        Vincennes
                    ; That the General Assembly of the Indiana Territory in the year Eighteen hundred
                    & six passed a Law for establishing a University at 
                        Vincennes
                     appointing a Board of Trustees to carry the said Law into effect, and authorizing the
                    sale of four Thousand acres of land for the purpose of putting the Institution into immediate
                    Opperation.— That quantity of land has been sold, and the proceeds expended in the
                    erection of a large and commodious building for a public school.
            Your Memorialists would further respectfully represent that under the authority of the Act of
                    Incorporation, the Board of Trustees have attempted to lease in quarter sections the remaining part
                    of these lands— This attempt has not succeeded according to their wishes, and experience
                    forbids the expectation of deriving any considerable benefit or aid from this source.51
            
            Thus, in brief, the affairs of the seminary stood, when in the Autumn of Eighteen hundred &
                    seventeen, the Board were induced to make application to your honorable Body for authority to sell
                    the remaining part of the aforesaid Township of land, and invest the proceeds of the sale in some
                    active Bank stock, the annual dividends of which might be expended in putting the Institution into
                    immediate and useful operation— And your Memorialists beg the indulgence of your
                    honorable Body, while they thus early renew this application, and while they attempt to state the
                    reasons which have induced them to it— And they are encouraged to this measure from the
                    consideration that all the reasons in favor of such a course at that time, are now encreased in a
                    duplicate ratio, & that many reasons are added to those which at that time existed. Our
                    population is rapidly increasing. The youth of our country are becoming numerous. The means of
                    initiating them into the knowledge of the principles of polite literature & the useful
                    sciences, are not within our reach. Few of our Citizens are able to send their Children to other 
                        United States
                     for an education; and those who do not, must consent to behold their offspring arrive
                    at years of maturity without the advantages of their Eastern brethren.
            Your Memorialists feel a lively interest, not only for the present respectability, but also for the
                    future prosperity of this Institution and they would not presume to make this 
                  
                     51 See above, p. 342.
               
                     application, did they not feel the strongest conviction that
                    the sale of these lands would, even at this time, create a fund amply sufficient for all the
                    purposes contemplated by Congress, or could they believe that such a measure would impair the
                    seminary funds, or violate the rights of posterity, nearly Twenty Thousand acres of land sold at a
                    minimum price of ten dollars per acre,52 will produce a sum of not less than Two
                    hundred thousand dollars— To this price your memorialists are willing to be limited, a
                    consideration that does away [with] one of the principal objections urged to the measure by the
                    committee of the Senate to whom this subject was referred at the last session of Congress.53 Such a precausion will effectually prevent any unwarrantable sacrifice in the
                    price that might have been apprehended by your Honorable Body. It is also observable that this
                    Township of land is situated in the vicinity of the village of 
                        Princeton
                    , and that on Two of the quarter sections within it, saw mills have been erected with no
                    other means of supply but from the timber of the seminary lands, & that daily depredations
                    are committed upon the most valuable of this timber. Your Memorialists need hardly suggest the idea
                    that this circumstance will not only prevent an encrease of the value of these lands, but must
                    gradually diminish this value—a circumstance which the utmost vigilance of your
                    Memorialists will not be able to prevent. Your Memorialists do not indulge the expectation that they
                    shall be able to force this Institution immediately into a respectability that will vie with older
                    & long established Universities. Their business and their pleasure will be to foster the
                    infant child— Time will be requisite to bring it to maturity. They ask only the privilege
                    of expending so much of the profits of the fund with which the Institution is endowed, in procuring
                    such a library, such a philosophical apparatus, and in employing such teachers as can be useful in
                    the present state of society, while the ballance may 
                  
                     52 In basing this calculation of potential income from the sale of
                            land at "a minimum price of ten dollars per acre" the board reflected the
                            trend toward inflation and speculation in land prices which the West experienced prior to
                            the Panic of 1819. The four thousand acres which had been sold between 1806 and 1811 brought
                            only $2 or $3 per acre. See Constantine, Indiana Magazine
                                of History, LIV (December, 1958), 330-331.
                  
                     53 "One of the principal objections" to the earlier
                            petition was the Senate committee's belief that the lands previously sold by the
                            board had "not acquired their proper value." U.S., Congress, American State Papers, Public Lands (8 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1832-1861), III, 302.
               
                     be added to the original fund, and held in reserve for a more
                    enlarged and general course of education. From these considerations, & under these
                    impressions, Your Memorialists feel it their duty respectfully to pray your honorable Body that the
                    remainder of the aforesaid Township of land be offered for sale at public vendue at such a time
                    & place, and in such a manner as to your honorable body may appear proper, under the
                    superintendence of persons appointed for that purpose, at a price not less than ten dollars per
                    acre; That the proceeds of this sale be laid out in the purchase of stock in the State Bank of
                        Indiana,54 or in such other Bank as Congress may direct, and that the
                    Dividends be vested in the Trustees of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, to be by them expended for the use of said University.
            On motion, Resolved that the said report be concurred in, and that copies thereof be forwarded to our
                    Senators & Representative in Congress.55
            
            There being no more business the Board adjourned sine die.
            Monday 5th April 1819
            This being the day for the semiannual meeting of the Trustees of the University, the following
                    members appeared: Benjamin Parke, President, Samuel T. Scott, Charles Smith, Nathaniel Ewing, John
                    Badollet, Robert Buntin, Elias McNamee, & Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .
            Benjamin Parke & Nathaniel Ewing were excused for their absence from the several meetings
                    previous to this time. Samuel T. Scott was excused for absence on the 5th October, 
                  
                     54 Several members of the university's board of trustees at
                            this time were also officers, directors, or stockholders in the State Bank of Indiana. Among
                            them were: John D. Hay, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNamee, Robert Buntin, Benjamin Parke,
                            Charles Smith, Wilson Lagow, and William Jones. The bank's original charter powers
                            (1814) were greatly expanded by an act of the state legislature (1817), and the institution
                            was bitterly criticized for dividend policies and extravagant issuance of paper which
                            preceded its bankruptcy and dissolution in 1822. Logan Esarey, State Banking in
                                Indiana, 1814-1873 (Indiana University Studies, No. 15; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1912), 226, 227, 229, 236, 240.
                  
                     55 Senator Taylor presented the petition on January 21, 1819. It was
                            referred to the Committee on Public Lands and apparently died there. U.S., Annals of Congress, 15th Cong., 2nd Sess., 1818-1819, I, 169.
               
                     the 12th & 15th December. Robert Buntin was excused for
                    absence on the 5th October. Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     was excused for absence on the 12th, 15th, & 17th December. John Badollet was
                    excused for absence on the 12th & 15th December. Elias McNamee was excused for absence on
                    the 12th December last.
            There being no other business, the Board adjourned sine die.
            5th October 1819
            This being the day for the semiannual meeting of the Trustees of the University there not, being a
                    sufficient number of members present to form a Board, the meeting adjourned without day.
            1 March 1820
            Agreeably to a public notice of the President, the following members appeared viz: Benjamin Parke
                    Prest., John Badollet, Moses Tabbs, Samuel T. Scott, Nathaniel Ewing, John D. Hay, Francis Vego,
                    Robert Buntin, and Charles Smith.
            Charles Smith was appointed Clerk pro Tem.
            Mr. Parke laid before the Board certain propositions made by Mr. George 
                        Brown
                     for leasing the seminary lands; and upon motion of Mr. Badollet a committee were
                    appointed to confer with Mr. Brown on these propositions whose duty should be to investigate their
                    nature, details and various bearings, and report to the next meeting—Whereupon Messrs.
                    Badollet, Tabbs, and Scott were appointed that Committee.
            There being no more business, the Board adjourned.
            3 April 1820
            This being the day for the semiannual meeting of the Trustees of the University the following members
                    appeared: Benjamin Parke Prest., Nathaniel Ewing, Francis Vego, Elias  McNamee, John Badollet, John D. Hay, Moses Tabbs, and Charles Smith.
            Mr. Smith was appointed Clerk pro Tem.
            The Board proceeded to the election of a member, to supply a vacancy occasioned by death of Mr.
                    Jones, when upon counting the ballots it appeared that George McDonald Esqr.56
                    was duly elected.
            The Board adjourned until the 6th Inst. at 3 O'clock.
            6th April 1820.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Benjamin Parke Prest., Elias McNamee, Francis Vigo,
                    Samuel T. Scott, John Badollet, Nathaniel Ewing, Moses Tabbs, George McDonald, and Charles Smith.
            Mr. Smith was appointed Clerk pro Tempore.
            The Committee appointed to confer with Mr. George 
                        Brown
                     on the subject of his proposals in relation to the Seminary, Reported favorably,
                    Whereupon it was Resolved that it is expedient to accede to the proposals of Mr. Browne, and that a
                    Committee be appointed to draw the necessary articles of agreement for that purpose, and George
                    McDonald, Moses Tabbs, & Benjamin Parke were appointed that Committee.
            There being no more business the Board adjourned.
            26 June 1820.
            The Board met pursuant to notice. Present: Benjamin Parke, President, George McDonald, Moses Tabbs,
                    John Badollet, Charles Smith, John D. Hay, Samuel T. Scott, Elias McNamee, and Jeremiah Wood.
            Mr. Wood was appointed Clerk pro tempore.
            On Motion, Resolved that a Committee of three be appointed to make or effect a final settlement with
                    Jo[s]hua 
                  
                     56 George McDonald was an attorney in 
                                Vincennes
                             (
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Centinel, January 1, 1820). He died soon after his election to the board
                            of trustees, and in an advertisement of the sale of his estate, his law library was
                            described as "the best collection in the state." Western
                            Sun, December 23, 1820.
               
                     Bond, who was the original undertaker of the
                    Carpenter's work of the Seminary or University buildings, and report to the Board at their
                    next meeting. Whereupon Saml. T. Scott, Geo. McDonald, & J. Wood were appointed that
                    Committee.
            On Motion, The Board proceeded to the election of one member to supply the place of Isaac 
                        Montgomery
                    ; when on counting the ballots it appeared that L. S. Shuler57 was
                    duly elected.
            On motion Resolved that the Committee heretofore appointed to view the Seminary Lands and Collect the
                    rents, be instructed and directed immediately to proceed to the discharge of the duties of their
                    appointment and make report to the Board at their next meeting.
            The Board adjourned until the first monday in August next.
            Monday 27 November 1820.
            Agreeably to an advertisement of the President, the following members met, viz: Benjamin Parke,
                    President, John Baddolet, Elias McNamee, L. S. Shuler, and Robert Buntin.
            There not being a sufficient number to form a Board, the meeting adjourned `till Saturday next.
            Saturday 2 December 1820.
            The following members met pursuant to adjournment: B. Parke, President, John Badollet, and Francis
                    Vigo.
            There not being a sufficient number present to form a quorum, the meeting adjourned 'till
                    Monday next.
            
               
                  57 Lawrence S. Shuler was a native of 
                            New York
                         who was practicing medicine in 
                            Vincennes
                         at this time. During his residence in 
                            Vincennes
                         he was president of the 
                            Knox County
                         Medical Society and an active member of the Masonic Order and the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company. Western Sun, November 27, 1819, August 11,
                    1821.
            
            
            Monday 4 December 1820.
            The following members met pursuant to adjournment: Benjamin Parke, President, John Badollet,
                    & Jeremiah Wood.
            There not being present as many members as are required to form a Board, the meeting adjourned
                    'till tomorrow morning 10 O'Clock.
            Tuesday 5th December 1820.
            Pursuant to adjournment, the following members met, viz: Benjamin Parke, President, Jeremiah Wood,
                    John D. Hay, John Badollet, L. S. Shuler, Elias McNamee.
            There not being present a sufficient number to form a quorum, the meeting adjourned 'till
                    thursday next.
            Thursday 7 December 1820.
            Agreeably to adjournment, the following members appeared, viz: Robert Buntin, Francis Vigo, Elias
                    McNamee, John D. Hay.
            A sufficient number of members not appearing for the purpose of forming a Board, the meeting
                    adjourned until Saturday next at two O'Clock.
            Saturday 9 December 1820.
            Pursuant to adjournment the following members met, viz: Francis Vigo, Robert Buntin, and John D. Hay.
            A sufficient number not being present to form a quorum, the meeting adjourned, without day.58
            
            
               
                  58 There was some irony and, perhaps, prophesy in the fact that during
                        this extended period of board meetings "adjourned for lack of a quorum," the
                            Western Sun (September 20, 27, 1820) carried the advertisement of the
                        "State Seminary of Indiana … at 
                            Bloomington
                        " which announced the "sale of lots … in the reserved
                        township in 
                            Monroe County
                         … of various sizes, consisting of not less than one half acre, nor more
                        than twenty acres each." Among other claims made for the area being sold were
                        "a salubrious climate—beautiful eminence in full view of the
                        town—fertile country around and excellent springs that never fall."
            
            
            Saturday 23 December 1820
            The Board met pursuant to an advertisement of the President. Present: Benjamin Parke, President,
                    Jeremiah Wood, John D. Hay, Nathaniel Ewing, Robert Buntin, L. S. Shuler, Elias McNamee, and Isc.
                    Blackford.
            Mr. Parke from the Committee appointed to draft a memorial to Congress respecting the leasing of the
                    University lands, Reported the following viz:59
            
            29 December 1820.
            This being the day to which the Board adjourned, the following members were present, viz: Nathaniel
                    Ewing, John D. Hay, Robert Buntin, L. S. Shuler, Jeremiah Wood.
            There not appearing a sufficient number of members to form a Board, the meeting adjourned `till
                    tuesday next.
            Tuesday 2 January 1821
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Samuel T. Scott, Nathaniel Ewing, Elias McNamee,
                    Francis Vigo, Jeremiah Wood, L. S. Shuler, Robert Buntin, John D. Hay, & Isc. Blackford.
            The President of the Board being absent, Mr. Scott was chosen President pro Tempore.
            The Clerk laid before the Board a letter from Mr. Parke, resigning his seat as a member.60
            
            Mr. Blackford introduced the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted— Whereas
                    we have received from the Hon. Benjamin Parke, President of the Board, a letter tendering his
                    resignation as a member, therefore
            Resolved that we have heard of this determination of our President with much regret; of whose
                    usefulness, & zeal we have had so many proofs— That Samuel T. Scott and John D.
                    Hay be appointed a Committee to wait on Mr. Parke and 
                  
                     59 The clerk allowed space in the minutes book for recording this
                            petition but failed to transcribe it. No record has been found of its having been presented
                            in either Senate or House of Representatives
                  
                     60 Parke was named a member of the board of trustees in the act of
                            incorporation, resigned in September, 1807, and was re-elected to membership in November,
                            1808
               
                     inform him that we would be much gratified, if he would
                    reconsider the subject, and continue a member, and the President of the Board of Trustees.
            Jonathan Doty,61 and R. M. I'anson62 were elected
                    members of the Board.
            The Board adjourned until saturday next.
            Saturday 6th January 1821.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Jeremiah Wood, Samuel T. Scott, R. M. Ianson,
                    Jonathan Doty, L. S. Shuler, Elias McNamee, Robert Buntin, and Isc. Blackford.
            Robt. Buntin, Isc. Blackford, Samuel T. Scott, Jeremiah Wood, & Elias McNamee; were, for
                    reasons given by each of them, excused for nonattendannce at the meetings of the Board when they
                    were respectively absent up to this date.
            The Clk. read a communication from Mr. Parke, declining to take his seat at the Board. David Hart63 was elected a member of the Board in the place of Benjamin Parke resigned.
            At this meeting Elias McNamee presided as President pro Tempore.
            Samuel T. Scott, R. M. I'anson, L. S. Shuler, Elias McNamee, and Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     were appointed a Committee to examine into the situation of the business between the
                    Trustees & Mr. George 
                        Brown
                     as respects the University, & report to the next meeting.
            The Board adjourned until friday next.
            
               
                  61 A native of 
                            New Jersey
                         and graduate of 
                            Princeton
                        , Jonathan Doty was judge on the first judicial circuit at the time of his election
                        to the board. His obituary appeared in the Western Sun on March 2, 1822
               
                  62 Richard M. I'Anson ran a general merchandise store in 
                            Vincennes
                        . His advertisements of "New Goods … to be sold for specie or
                        land office money at very reduced prices" and his urgent requests for overdue payments
                        appeared regularly in the Western Sun and General Advertiser, October 30,
                        1819, December 30, 1820, January 6, 1821, July 27, 1822, September 4, 1824
               
                  63 In Hart's obituary notices he was described as a native of 
                            North Carolina
                        , "educated at the University of his native State," who migrated
                        to 
                            Princeton
                        , Indiana, in 1816. He served as judge on the fourth judicial circuit of Indiana
                        from January 27, 1818, to January 2, 1819, and, following his resignation from that post,
                        practiced law in 
                            Princeton
                         and 
                            Vincennes
                         until his death in December, 1822. Western Sun, December 28,
                        1822, January 4, 1823
            
            
            Friday [12] January 1821
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Jeremiah Wood, Francis Vigo, Robert Buntin, David
                    Hart, Jonathan Doty, Richard M. I'anson, Samuel T. Scott, Lawrence S. Shuler, Elias
                    McNamee, & Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .
            E. McName presided as president pro tempore.
            The Committee appointed at the last meeting to examine into the situation of the business with Mr.
                    Brown Reported as follows
            "The proposals of Mr. Brown were acceded to, & a Committee were appointed to draw up
                    an Article of Agreement. Nothing appears to have been done by the Committee.
            There is no time fixed upon in the proposals for which the seminary building and lands were to be
                    leased.
            A final agreement could only have depended upon the obtaining from Congress authority to sell or
                    lease the lands, which authority has been petitioned for but not procured.64 Any
                    repairs that have been made by Mr. Brown, were not authorized by the Board; But if upon examination
                    they appear to be substantially beneficial to the Institution, the expence ought to be paid whenever
                    the Board have funds to be disposed of in that way.
            There would be no impropriety in appointing a Committee to examine the repairs that have been made,
                    & to confer with Mr. Brown as to any others he may contemplate, and make report to the
                    Board."
            In which Report the Board concurred, and a Committee for the purpose mentioned in the report was
                    appointed, consisting of Messrs. Scott, I'anson, Shuler, McNamee, & 
                        Blackford
                    .
            The resignation of John Badollet as a member of this Board was received and
                    accepted—whereupon Jacob Call65 was elected to supply the vacancy.
            There being no other business, the Board adjourned.
            
               
                  64 About a year before this meeting was held, the Indiana General
                        Assembly, meeting at Corydon on January 22, 1820, appointed a "superintendant for the
                        Seminary Township in 
                            Gibson County
                        ." According to the statute this officer was responsible for collecting the
                        rents from the land and for preventing "waste" being committed on it. He was
                        instructed to report annually to the general assembly. Indiana, Laws
                        (1819–1820), 160–161
               
                  65 Following his migration from 
                            Kentucky
                        , Call practiced law in 
                            Vincennes
                         and 
                            Princeton
                        , served as judge of the 
                            Knox County
                         Circuit Court in 1817, 1818, and 1822–1824, and was elected to the
                        Eighteenth
            
            
            26 January 1821.
            The Board met agreeably to adjournment. Present: Nathaniel Ewing, Samuel T. Scott, Lawrence S.
                    Shuler, Robert Buntin, Richard M. I'anson, Jeremiah Wood, Jonathan Doty, Jacob Call, Elias
                    McNamee, & David Hart.
            Mr. Hart acted as Secretary pro tempore.
            Moses Tabbs was elected President of the Board. The Committee appointed at the last meeting to
                    examine the repairs made by Mr. Brown, Reported as follows,
            The Committee appointed for the purpose, have had the carpenters work of the repairs made by Mr.
                    Brown to the seminary building examined, & a valuation made thereof by two master workmen of
                    this town, one of whom was selected by Mr. Brown, & the other by your Committee. The said
                    examination took place in presence of your Committee and of Mr. Brown. A list of the repairs and a
                    valuation thereof as made & subscribed by the workmen, accompanies this report. The
                    Committee report a bill furnished by Mr. Brown of labor, articles furnished, glazing &c.,
                    the particulars of which more fully appears by the bill itself to this report annexed.
            Amount of the Bill, for labor, articles furnished &c. is Forty eight dollars & ninety
                    two cents. If to this is added the Carpenter's repairs amounting to one hundred &
                    forty four dollars & Eighty six cents, we have a total of one hundred and ninety three
                    dollars, & seventy eight cents.
            This report was considered and concurred in.
            The President pro Tem. laid before the Board a letter from Mr. Brown on the subject of expences
                    incurred by him for repairs &c, & expressing his wish to withdraw from the
                    engagement with the Board. Whereupon it was Resolved That the Board do not consider themselves bound
                    to discharge Mr. Brown's demands for repairs done to the seminary building until Congress
                    grants permission to lease the seminary lands, inasmuch as Mr. Brown was not authorized to make the
                    repairs; nevertheless the Board agree to pay Mr. Brown whenever they may have funds in their hands
                    not otherwise appropriated, and that agreeable to his request he be discharged from all obligation
                    to the Board. It was further 
                  Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the death of William Prince. He served in the
                            latter position from December, 1824, to March, 1825. Western Sun, June 13,
                            1818, March 16, 1822, December 2, 1823, November 27, 1824; Biographical
                                Directory of the American Congress, 1774–1949 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1950), 937
               
                     Resolved that a Committee of three be appointed to collect any
                    monies that may be due the Trustees for rents, or otherwise,66 and to pay Mr.
                    Brown the sum of one hundred and ninety three dollars and seventy eight cents, out of the first
                    money collected, and to make report of the same to the Board, together with an account of all the
                    monies collected. Messrs. Scott, Buntin, and Hart were appointed that Committee.
            On Motion, Resolved that the Secretary deliver to Mr. Brown a copy of the Resolution releasing him
                    from his agreement, and receive from him the keys of the Seminary.
            The Board adjourned sine die.
            2 April 1821.
            This being the day fixed by Law for the semiannual meeting of the Board, the following members
                    appeared, viz: Lawrence S. Shuler, Samuel T. Scott, Elias McNamee, John D. Hay, Francis Vigo,
                    Jonathan Doty, Jacob Call, Richard M. I'Anson, & David Hart.
            Mr. Shuler presided as President pro tempore, & Mr. Hart acted as Secretary pro tem.
            The resignation of Mr. Tabbs as a member of the Board was received and accepted.
            Elias McNamee was elected President of the Board in the place of Mr. Tabbs resigned. Messrs. John
                        Law67 & John C. S. Harrison68 were elected
                    members of the Board to supply the vacancies occasioned by the death of Charles Smith, & the
                    resignation of Mr. Tabbs.
            
               
                  66 A notice requesting "all those …. who have money in
                        their hands belonging to … the Public Seminary" to pay immediately appeared
                        in the 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Centinel, March 31, 1821
               
                  67 John Law was a native of 
                            Connecticut
                         and graduate of Yale who came to 
                            Vincennes
                         in 1817 and began a career in law and politics which spanned half a century and
                        included, among other positions, membership in the national House of Representatives (March,
                        1861-March, 1865) and a judgeship on the 
                            United States
                         Court of Land Claims (1855 to 1857). Biographical Directory of the
                            American Congress, 1774–1949, 1441. In 
                            Vincennes
                        , Law was an active member of the subscription library company
                        (1818–1842) and the Historical and Antiquarian Society, member of the general
                        assembly from 
                            Knox County
                         (1823), and receiver of public moneys for the 
                            Vincennes
                         land office (1838–1842)
               
                  68 John Cleves Symmes Harrison was the second son of William Henry
                        Harrison. His appointment as "Receiver of public monies for the District of 
                            Vincennes
                        , vice Nathaniel Ewing, dismissed" was announced in the
                            Western Sun, October 16, 1819, which "congratulat[ed] our fellow
                        citizens on the judicious appointment of [Harrison], who
            
            
            On Motion, Resolved that a Committee of five be appointed to enquire and report to this Board the
                    situation of lands belonging to the 
                        Vincennes
                     seminary, how far they are under the control of the Board, & the propriety of
                    proceeding by Law to collect the rents and profits of the same; and the said Committee be instructed
                    to enquire into all claims which the said Board may have upon any, & every species of
                    property whatever. Robert Buntin, Lawrence S. Shuler, Jonathan Doty, Jacob Call, and David Hart were
                    appointed that Committee.
            There being no more business, the Board adjourned.
            Monday April 1, 1822.69
            
            This being the day for the semiannual meeting of the Trustees of the University, the following
                    members appeared: Elias McNamee, President, John D. Hay, Nathaniel Ewing, Jacob Call, Francois Vigo,
                    Robert Buntin, J. C. S. Harrison, and John Law.
            On Motion, The Board proceeded to the election of one member to supply the vacancy occasioned by the
                    death of Jonathan Doty, when on counting the ballots it appeared that Henry Ruble70 was duly elected.
            
               combines capability, integrity and industry with an ardent desire for the welfare of his
                        fellow-citizens." This enthusiasm for Harrison as receiver of public money was perhaps
                        dampened by his "alleged defalcation of over twelve thousand dollars due the
                        government" at the time of his death in October, 1830. Dorothy Riker and Gayle
                        Thornbrough (eds.), Messages and Papers relating to the Administration of James 
                                Brown
                             Ray, Governor of Indiana, 1825-1831 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                        XXXIV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1954), 636–637; Dorothy Burne Goebel, William Henry
                            Harrison (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1926), 294
               
                  69 In the year which had passed since the board's last meeting
                        the Indiana General Assembly had on January 2, 1822, by statute transferred jurisdiction over
                        the "seminary township in 
                            Gibson county
                        " to a board of commissioners, who were authorized to sell the land
                        "to the highest bidder" and to allocate the proceeds of sale to "the
                        state Seminary [at Bloomingon]." The lapse of a full year without a meeting was
                        probably responsible for Section 7 of this act, which described the "former Board of
                        Trustees of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University" as having "expired by the negligence of its
                        members…." Indiana, Laws (1821–1822),
                        111–114
               
                  70 Henry Ruble was a 
                            Vincennes
                         tailor who was serving at this time as an associate judge of the 
                            Knox County
                         Court. Western Sun, January 2, 1819; Dorothy Riker (ed.), Executive Proceedings of the State of Indiana, 1816–1836 (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. XXIX; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1947), 133, 492, 493
            
            
            On Motion, Resolved that the Methodist society71 be permitted to hold their next
                    quarterly meeting in the University building.
            The Board adjourned.
            Saturday 21 September 1823
            The Board met pursuant to the advertisement of the President. Present: Elias McNamee, President,
                    Francois Vigo, Robert Buntin, Samuel T. Scott, Nathaniel Ewing, John Law, Richard M.
                    I'Anson, Ruble, & 
                        Blackford
                    .
            The account of J. B. [Stropes?] was presented & allowed—amount [not stated].
            The account of Gardner & Moore was presented & allowed—amount
                    $35.12.
            Propositions were made by the Revd. Henry M. Shaw72 relative to the Seminary
                    building, upon which a Committee were appointed consisting of Messrs. McNamee, Shuler, & 
                        Blackford
                    , who were instructed to confer with Mr. Shaw on the subject of his proposals, &
                    make report to the next semiannual meeting of the Board.
            On motion, The Board proceeded to the election of two members to supply the vacancies occasioned by
                    the death of David Hart and when on counting the Ballots it appeared that Jacob Kuykendall &
                    [Henry M. Shaw?]73 were duly elected.
            On motion, Messrs. McNamee, Shuler, & Shaw were appointed a Committee to draw up a memorial
                    to the next 
                  
                     71 William Forster, a vistor in 
                                Vincennes
                             in December, 1821, noted that there was "no place for worship but a
                            Popish chapel; but the Methodists and Presbyterians occasionally use the Court-house for
                            their meetings." Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana As Seen By Early
                                Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to
                                1830 (Indiana Historical Collections, [Vol. III]; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1916), 257
                  
                     72 Henry Moore Shaw was an Episcopal clergyman whose
                            "orations" were highly regarded and much in demand at this time in 
                                Vincennes
                             and the surrounding area. He conducted a private school and in October, 1823,
                            was elected by the university's board of trustees as "President of the
                            Institution," given a room in the seminary building for religious services, and put
                            in charge of "the education of youth in the seminary…." Western Sun, May 17, June 14, September 6, December 20, 1823, January 3,
                            February 14, April 3, 1824
                  
                     73 A blank space appears at this point in the minutes. It is possible
                            that Shaw was the second person elected to the board; while he "resigned his seat
                            as Trustee of this Seminary" at the following meeting of the board, there is no
                            prior record of his having been named to that position. See p. 365
               
                     Legislature respecting the Seminary Lands in 
                        Gibson County
                    , & present the same to the next meeting of the Board for consideration.
            There being no more business, the Board adjourned.
            Monday [no date] October 1823
            The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Elias McNamee President; Messrs. Call, Ruble, Ewing,
                    Shaw, Shuler, Law, Buntin, Kuykendall, 
                        Blackford
                    .
            Mr. Shaw resigned his seat as Trustee of this Seminary—Whereupon the Board proceeded to an
                    election to supply the vacancy, & upon counting the ballots Samuel Judah Esqr.74 was declared duly elected.
            On Motion, The Board proceeded to elect a President of the Institution, & upon Counting the
                    ballots the Revd. Henry Moore Shaw was declared unanimously elected.
            The committee appointed at the last meeting to confer with Mr. Shaw &c. Reported as follows,
                    viz:
            The Committee have performed the duty assigned them and recommended to the Board for consideration,
                    the following Resolution, viz:
            Whereas the Seminary building is in an unfinished state, and the Trustees have not the funds
                    necessary to secure it from the almost immediate ruin to which it is exposed; and whereas it seems
                    perfectly consistent with the future prosperity 
                  
                     74 A native of 
                                New York
                             and graduate of Rutgers, Samuel Judah was at this time a young lawyer
                            practicing in 
                                Vincennes
                            . See Western Sun, January 11, 1823. Eventually recognized as
                            "one of the longest-headed lawyers and politicians in Indiana," Judah was
                            to play an important role in the lengthy litigation and controversy which developed between 
                                Vincennes
                             University and the state of Indiana, arising from the sale of the 
                                Gibson County
                             "seminary lands" and the transfer of the proceeds thereof to
                            Indiana University. It was Judah who guided the school's case through the general
                            assembly (1838–1846) and from the state supreme court to the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court (1846–1852), where a decision favorable to the
                            university was used as the basis for a "final settlement" of
                            $66,585 between the state and the school (February 13, 1855). As it turned out,
                            this "final settlement," about $26,000 of which was retained by
                            Judah for "fees and expenses," was really an early chapter in the dispute
                            between the state and 
                                Vincennes
                             University, the later episodes of which fall into the era of recent history and
                            are appropriate for consideration in a possible subsequent installment of the board of
                            trustees minutes. This phase of Judah's career is well summarized in Jacob Piatt
                            Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , Ill., 1919), I, 316–321. Like many of the other members of the
                            board of trustees, Judah joined the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library Company (March 1, 1824). He served as a director (February 7, 1825, to
                            February 4, 1833) and was president of the organization from 1849 to 1852
               
                     of the Institution, and the principles of its establishment
                    that a part of the building not required for the purposes of Tuition, should be specially
                    appropriated as a Hall for prayer & for the performance of divine worship.
            Therefore Resolved, That the Revd. Henry M. Shaw be and he is hereby authorized to take possession of
                    the large South West room on the lower floor & the North room above stairs, of the Seminary
                    building, and that he the said Mr. Shaw and his successors, Episcopal Clergymen shall enjoy the same
                    for the purposes of their church, free from the control of the Trustees and of all other persons,
                    and without any charge for rent.
            The conditions annexed to this Grant are the following, viz:
            
               First, Mr. Shaw shall within twelve months at his own expense so repair the
                    Edifice, that it will be in a state of security from the weather & other causes of
                    destruction, similar to that by which other buildings of the same kind in our Country, are
                    ordinarily protected. The money judiciously expended for the purpose, not to be less than four
                    hundred dollars. Subsequent repairs for such preservation to be at the Cost of the Institution by
                    order of the Trustees.
            Secondly—Mr. Shaw, as President of the College, and his successors episcopal clergymen,
                    shall personally attend to the education of Youth in the Seminary building, and duly discharge the
                    duties of President of the Institution under the superintendence of the Trustees, in conformity to
                    the principles of the charter. He must depend for his compensation upon the amount he may receive
                    for Tuition from the Students, their parents & guardians.
            Thirdly—The large room, intended by Mr. Shaw as a place for divine worship, shall be
                    subject to the use of the college for morning and evening prayers, & for public speaking,
                    whenever its possession may not be required for the services of the church.
            Fourthly—If at any time hereafter the Trustees may deem it expedient, they shall be at
                    liberty to resume the possession of the whole seminary building, upon giving to the Episcopal
                    clergyman resident here at the time, twelve months notice of their intention, and upon repaying to
                    him for the benefit of his church here, the principal of the money expended for repairs of the
                    building, and in fitting up the rooms for the purposes aforesaid.
            
            On Motion, The above Report was concurred in by the Board, & the Secretary required to
                    furnish Mr. Shaw with a copy of the same.
            The Committee appointed to draw up a memorial to the next Legislature, asked & obtained time
                    until the next meeting of the Board, to make their Report.
            The Board adjourned until the first monday in November next.
            Saturday, 24th April 1824.
            The Board met pursuant to notice of the President. Present: Elias McNamee President, Messrs. Scott,
                    Buntin, Kuykendall, Harrison, Shaw, I'Anson, 
                        Blackford
                    .
            On motion, Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to enquire into and ascertain the amount due for
                    fines assessed for breach of the penal laws in the County of 
                        Knox
                    .75 Kuykendall, Harrison, & Judah that Committee.
            On motion, Resolved, That the Board do not consider themselves bound by the Report of the Auditor,76 relative to the claims of Mr. George C. Brown.
            The Board adjourned until the first tuesday in June next.
            
               
                  75 In an "Act establishing a County Seminary in the county of 
                            Knox
                        ," approved by the general assembly, January 2, 1824, 
                            Vincennes
                         University was "adopted as the county Seminary of 
                            Knox county
                        , under the direction and control of the board of trustees of said
                        University." As prescribed by the Indiana constitution (art. IX, sec. 4) the act
                        further required that "all monies now due or owing from the trustee of the public
                        seminary of 
                            Knox county
                        , for and on account of penal fines,… shall be paid over to the treasurer
                        of the board of trustees of said University,… [for the purpose of] repairing said
                        building, and for the purposes of education." Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical
                            Introduction and Critical Notes (3 vols., Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vols. I, II, XVII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1916–1930), I, 114; Indiana, Special
                            Acts… of the General Assembly (1823–1824), 107–108
               
                  76 On February 12, 1825, the general assembly amended the act establishing
                        a "County Seminary in the county of 
                            Knox
                        ," mentioned in note 75, by withdrawing the power of the university board
                        of trustees to act as trustees of the county seminary and requiring the appointment of one
                        trustee, who was "authorized to receive and collect all moneys now due… to
                        the seminary," in accordance with the general law governing county seminaries. This act
                        also required the new trustee to use the first of this money "to pay to Claudius G.
                        Brown… the amount justly due the said 
                            Brown
                        , under the decision of the auditor, authorized to audit said claim,…
                        [on] the university, and county seminary aforesaid." Indiana, Laws
                        (1825), 96
            
         
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Colonial 
                            Virginia
                        . Two volumes. By Richard L. Morton. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society, 1960. Vol. I, The Tidewater Period,
                        1607–1710: Pp. xiv, 408. Vol. II, Westward Expansion and Prelude to
                        Revolution, 1710–1763: Pp. viii, 409–883. Illustrations, maps,
                    bibliographies, index. $15.00 per set.)
            Professor Morton has written a comprehensive and detailed history of colonial 
                        Virginia
                    , 1607–1763, in a broad setting. Early chapters tell of 
                        Virginia
                    's founding, detail initial difficulties and perils involved in its early
                    years, discuss its transition from a royal to a proprietary colony, and consider the political and
                    economic beginnings of the Old Dominion. Once these foundations in tidewater 
                        Virginia
                     are established, however, the scope of Morton's account is rapidly extended.
                    Although the author emphasizes the history of tidewater 
                        Virginia
                    , he fortunately exhibits substantial knowledge of and continued interest in 
                        Virginia
                    's westward expansion.
            To this reviewer at least, these two volumes afford much information to indicate that the successful
                    formation of the 
                        United States
                     as a separate country during and after the American Revolution was certainly not an
                    inevitable development from colonial experience. In fact, they strengthen the impression that the
                    Old Dominion exhibited important elements favorable to its becoming an independent country rather
                    than a part of the 
                        United States
                    . By the time 
                        Virginia
                    's westward expansion reached its zenith during the American Revolution, 
                        Virginia
                     held or at least had strong title to not only her present area but also what is now
                    West 
                  Virginia, Kentucky
               , part of western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the Old Northwest, from which more than five states were subsequently carved. 
                        Virginia
                    's surrender of her claim to the Old Northwest in the 1780's and her
                    effective leadership in establishing a central government for the 
                        United States
                     during and after the Revolution are significant developments which are made all the
                    more remarkable in view of the role westward expansion had long played in her history.
            Professor Morton's Colonial 
                            Virginia
                        
                is desirable—perhaps even required—reading for persons
                    with serious interest in the early history of the American Middle West. This is true not only
                    because a significant proportion of the early settlers of the Middle West were either natives of 
                        Virginia
                     or descendents thereof but equally true because the most important problems faced by
                    the pioneers of the Middle West had previously been faced by Virginians—conflict with
                    Indians, the impact of the frontier, the necessity for much self-sufficiency, the organization of
                    local government, the development of transportation facilities, and so on. To a substantial extent,
                    the life and institutions of the early American Middle West was bottomed upon English life and
                    institutions as modified by Virginians. Thus, in various respects the founding of
                    Jamestown in 1608 is a more important part of Indiana's history than La Salle's
                    use of the 
                        St. Joseph
                    -Kankakee portage in 1679.
            
            This two-volume history is an important contribution by a mature scholar. Professor Morton exhibits
                    detailed knowledge of 
                        Virginia
                    's history; he relates 
                        Virginia
                    's history to that of 
                        England
                     and to other colonies; and, as indicated, he gives attention to western expansion as an
                    important factor in the Old Dominion's history. Useful maps and illustrations and extensive
                    bibliographies are included. The author seems aware that local history cannot be written in a purely
                    local context, but his two volumes illustrate how essential such studies are to an adequate
                    understanding of the larger stream of history. The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press is to be congratulated for having published these volumes for the 
                        Virginia
                     Historical Society.
            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Great Lakes Frontier: An Epic of the Old Northwest. By John Anthony Caruso. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.: Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 1961. Pp. 432. Maps, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $6.50.)
            Professor Caruso has continued a study of the frontier which he began in The Appalachian
                        Frontier. This volume on the Great Lakes frontier deals with a century and three-quarters
                    of the history of the Old Northwest from the arrival of Louis Jolliet and Jacques Marquette at Green
                    Bay to the admission of 
                        Wisconsin
                     as a state. In twelve lengthy chapters the author has condensed a staggering amount of
                    frontier history into this book. There is nothing especially new in either his organization or
                    approach. His research nevertheless was extensive, giving his study a marked degree of
                    dependability. He has attempted to produce an account of the vigorous American thrust into the
                    Northwest which is at once compressed and readable. The compression has been done with highly
                    acceptable skill, and the writing is facile, even if at moments it appears strained. For instance,
                    Caruso refers to "sputtering" rifles (p. 369), and there are other such figures
                    which seem miscast. Nevertheless the text flows on with interest.
            There is an extensive chapter on the formation and administration of Indiana Territory which centers
                    largely about the cardinal issue of whether or not slavery would exist there. Jonathan Jennings is
                    treated as a central figure who stirred opposition to slavery and who saw the territory created free
                    as a sort of personal triumph.
            The entire Northwest was involved in the vaguities of American Indian policies, a trial and error
                    approach to much of its settlement, an involved relationship with Great Britain, and the rising
                    pressures of partisan politics. The Indian problem was central in the early phases of territorial
                    expansion. From the arrival of white men along the Great Lakes to the end of the Black Hawk War the
                    region was troubled with threats and conflicts. The Shawnee chieftain Tecumseh was to leave an
                    impression on the early Northwest almost comparable to that of George Clark and William Henry
                    Harrison. Like Glenn Tucker, Mr. Caruso looks upon the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     as an indecisive skirmish which "made 
                        Tippecanoe
                    —a mere border skirmish that settled nothing—one of the great
                    victories in American history. In twenty-nine years it grew so big that it won Harrison the
                    presidency of the 
                        United States
                    ."
            
            The War of 1812 was, in the eyes of the author, a frontier war which the East had to accept. In a
                    search for virgin soil the frontiersmen felt they had to have free access to the sprawling
                    Northwest. The war treated here is the same struggle which has been described many times before.
                    Little new has been added in this text. But Professor Caruso launches out into lush if not virgin
                    territory in his discussion of the Americanization of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He reaches the height of his narrative in describing the activities of Lewis Cass and
                    his associates. Especially good are the passages drawn from the writings of Henry R. Schoolcraft.
            
               The Great Lakes Frontier is an episodic study. It gives only limited attention to
                    the people and their struggles to develop a highly domesticated society. It covers little or none of
                    the central subject matter of Professor R. C. Buley's important study of the Old Northwest.
                    There is an extensive and carefully classified bibliography. The amount of original material
                    examined by the author is impressive.
            Thomas D. Clark, University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Remember the Raisin! 
                            Kentucky
                         and Kentuckians in the Battles and Massacre at Frenchtown, 
                            Michigan
                         Territory, in the War of 1812. By G. Glenn Clift. (
                        Frankfort
                    : 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society, 1961. Pp. xiii, 281. Endpaper map, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Because the battles on the River Raisin during the War of 1812 have been of special interest to
                    residents of 
                        Kentucky
                    , it is surprising that no one from that state has previously published a complete
                    account of these engagements. Now G. Glenn Clift, assistant director of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society, has written a book on the subject, using as its title the battle
                    cry American troops used after the disaster at the Raisin.
            If enthusiasm had been enough, the Kentuckians would have annihilated the enemies of their country.
                    General orders for mobilization quickly produced volunteers beyond the state's quota, and
                    Brigadier General James Winchester, appointed by the president to command the western forces, went
                    to work with a will. Preparation and organization took time. On August 3, Governor Charles Scott
                    received an order from the secretary of war to send fifteen hundred infantry to the support of
                    General William Hull at 
                        Detroit
                    . In spite of earnest endeavor, it was not until August 19, three days after
                    Hull's surrender, that the detachment set out for 
                        Michigan
                    .
            All sorts of difficulties slowed the march of the relief column. Indian forays, building of forts,
                    lack of food and clothing, shortages of arms and munitions, and a diversion to relieve 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , besieged by Indians, caused many delays. Besides, militiamen were not easy to manage.
                    Animosity toward General Winchester caused a near mutiny, and only the appointment of their hero,
                    William Henry Harrison, as major general in command of the Northwestern Army satisfied the
                    Kentuckians that they would be properly led.
            Harrison ordered Winchester to the Rapids of the Maumee to establish a base for an advance to
                    Frenchtown (now 
                        Monroe
                    ), 
                        Michigan
                    .  After a march made almost unendurable by cold,
                    snow, and insufficient food, the Kentuckians reached the rapids on January 10, 1813. After Frenchmen
                    from the settlement had begged for protection from marauding British and Indians, Winchester on
                    January 17 ordered a detachment of 660 officers and men to the Raisin. The author describes in
                    detail the victorious action of January 18, the defeat of January 22 in which Winchester, who had
                    advanced with reinforcements, was captured, the massacre on the twenty-third, and the fate of the
                    prisoners who had been taken to Fort Maiden.
            Brief biographical sketches of officers of the invading force and of the British and Indians and
                    rosters of the American units follow the text. The end paper is a map showing the route of the
                    Kentuckians. Apparently through oversight, Fort Maiden is not shown. There are a bibliography and an
                    index.
            A few errors have been noticed. It was not the house of Colonel James Baby but that of his brother,
                    Colonel Fran$cLois Baby, which was General Hull's headquarters (p. 167). This
                    house is now the Hiram Walker Historical Museum in Windsor, 
                        Ontario
                    . Billy 
                        Caldwell
                     was a Potawatomi, not a Shawnee (p. 168). McDonall should be McDouall (p. 63n). Colonel
                    John Anderson was not in Frenchtown in January, 1813. A manuscript autobiography in the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Collections states that he fled to 
                        Ohio
                     on August 20, 1812, and returned in September, 1813 (p. 80n).
            Mr. Cliffs book is interesting and useful. Written largely from original sources, it contains many
                    quotations from contemporary letters, diaries, and newspapers which bring the reader close to the
                    events they deal with.
            F. Clever Bald, 
                  
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections 
                     Ann Arbor,
                                Michigan
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Concept of Jacksonian Democracy: 
                            New York
                         as a Test Case. By Lee Benson. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1961. Pp. xi, 351. Tables, appendices, index. $6.00.)
            The subject of this book, "the concept of Jacksonian democracy," is neither
                    political nor social democracy in the Jacksonian period nor the Jacksonian Democratic party, but a
                    set of six propositions based on the idea that the Democrats and "the opposing
                    party" of the 1830's and 1840's were in leadership, mass support,
                    ideology, and program the agents of certain socioeconomic classes and social groups. The study is an
                    attempt, according to Benson, to answer two specific questions: What empirical phenomena can
                    logically be designated by the concept? Does the concept help us to understand the course of
                    American history after 1815? As the concept is not defined until the last chapter (p. 329) the
                    unwary reader may at first be misled in earlier chapters by the author's apparent search
                    for evidence that might give substance and meaning to the Democratic party as an institution or to
                    democracy as a form of political behavior. The search is, in fact, a much narrower although detailed
                    examination of evidence to validate five of the six propositions. Benson has studied partisan
                    newspapers, party platforms,  and other party propaganda on
                    major public issues and the "images" of various parties and has sought to relate
                    them to the numbers of votes cast for various party tickets in 
                        New York
                     chiefly from 1834 to 1844. In later chapters correlations are sought between the
                    numbers and proportions of votes cast and certain "quantified" economic, social,
                    cultural, ethnic, and religious characteristics of the population. The author's conclusions
                    are forthright: the underlying assumptions of historians who accept "the term and concept
                    of Jacksonian Democracy" are, at least for 
                        New York
                    , untenable; and the concept of Jacksonian Democracy has obscured rather than
                    illuminated the course of 
                        New York
                     history after 1815. His findings are, in brief, iconoclastic.
            Benson recognizes only three approaches to the study of American politics in this period: first, the
                    hypotheses of Beard and Turner with their later modifications; second, the "metaphysical
                    notions about the country's `divine democratic mission,' or the `peculiar
                    political genius of the Teutonic race'" (p. 272); and third, "`chaos
                    floating into chaos'" (p. 272). He ignores other approaches of the past hundred
                    years: the search to discover how Americans governed themselves, who participated, at what levels,
                    to what extent, at what times, in what ways, for what purposes, and with what consequences for
                    themselves and for others; the role of "the court house gang"; the changing nature
                    of political leadership. The "general theory of voting behavior" which he
                    elaborates is not a general theory but a hypothetical statistical correlation that diverts attention
                    from basic questions such as what was the significance of voting. He neglects fundamental problems
                    involved in the formation of party platforms, party tickets, and political parties themselves and
                    the functions of those institutions in American society. Heavily weighted with arithmetic and
                    ideology, the study seems lifeless, abstract, and unreal.
            Within the limits Benson set for himself his book is an outstanding work of destructive criticism,
                    the removal of debris that historians need to do before they begin to write. It seriously weakens
                    the arguments presented by followers of the Simons-Beard-Hacker school and to some extent those of
                    Turner disciples without touching the main stream of Jacksonian studies. Its positive contributions
                    are negligible.
            Harry R. Stevens, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         University
            
         
         
            
               Charles Richard 
                            Van
                         Hise: Scientist Progressive. By Maurice M. Vance. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1960. Pp. 246. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            As a scientist and historian Maurice M. Vance is a peculiarly well-fitted biographer of the
                    pioneering president of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     who was both a scientist and a maker of history. The Foreword of the book, by Conrad A.
                    Elvehjem, acknowledges the competence of the author in giving "a scholarly but sprightly
                    full-length picture of the man who, at the turning point in this institution's history,
                    headed it into greatness." Undoubtedly 
                        Van
                     Hise deserves the tribute of "great."
            
            The book is more than a personal biography, for it clearly relates the life of 
                        Van
                     Hise to three important aspects of American culture: the rise of basic research and
                    advanced technology; the broadening of educational activities and horizons, particularly the
                    development of university extension and other public services; and the political Progressive
                    movement, especially the drive for conservation of natural resources and the regulation of business
                    and industry. Also 
                        Van
                     Hise played a part in the patriotic wartime effort to preserve the freedom of the
                    western nations and in the movement to establish an international organization.
            Two chapters, "Geologist in Charge" and "Geology and 
                        Van
                     Hise in the University," plus considerable portions of other chapters deal
                    with the history of geology. Much of this material is hard reading for laymen, but it succeeds not
                    only in substantiating the role of a fruitful geologist but also his roles as a manager of research
                    and as a teacher and administrator who made a powerful impact on the emergence of basic research as
                    a prime function of institutions of higher learning.
            Not so successful is the treatment of the contributions of 
                        Van
                     Hise to "The 
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea," the university function of extensive, practical service to the state.
                    Vance probably believes that the publications listed have amply covered the story. If so, he is
                    mistaken because, even with many sources not mentioned, it is true that no book has yet been
                    published that adequately explains the American university as a public service institution,
                    particularly that aspect of it vaguely called "university extension" and
                    "adult education," both of which are often met with scorn by academic pundits,
                    neglected by administrators, and little understood by the public. Most Americans regard universities
                    as either ivory towers or colleges for the young. Vance recognizes the significance of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea as revolutionary but almost dismisses that evaluation when he says, "More
                    concise, less grand in conception, equally illuminating, was the oft-quoted comment of a 
                        Wisconsin
                     farm wife who had enrolled in an extension course, `I never knew that the University
                    was something for me'" (p. 204). Perhaps when the biographies of L. E. Reber, W.
                    L. Lighty, and other early representatives of the university extension movement are written, the
                    service function of universities may be illuminated as a true revolution. 
                        Van
                     Hise not only championed practical service, including faculty appointments on
                    governmental agencies and other public enterprises, but he also vigorously stressed theoretical
                    research; the combination signals a highly important development of American universities.
            Two episodes of curious interest are here worthy of note because they are related to the acute
                    present-day problems of academic freedom and conflict of interest. 
                        Van
                     Hise had reservations as to the former and a somewhat anomalous attitude to the latter.
                    He refused to accept the AAUP suggestion of guaranteed tenure for professors; yet his defense of
                    provocative sociologist E. A. Ross and other dissident faculty members was very strong. In the
                    matter of opposition to faculty participation in various enterprises, 
                        Van
                     Hise himself used his knowledge as scientist and public servant to build a substantial
                    private fortune. If that fact had not been kept secret from his enemies, his career might have been
                    wrecked. 
                        Van
                     Hise became a powerful defender of freedom  for
                    faculty and students and of institutional commitments in public and private affairs despite intense
                    political criticism. The famous quotation inscribed on a plaque in Bascom Hall, 1915, expressed in
                    general what 
                        Van
                     Hise himself successfully stood for: "Whatever may be the limitations which
                    trammel inquiry elsewhere, we believe the great University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     should ever encourage that continual and fearless sifting and winnowing by which alone
                    the truth can be found" (p. 206).
            W. S. Bittner, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Liberty Line: The Legend of the Underground Railroad. By Larry Gara. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1961. Pp. ix, 201. Index. $5.00.)
            "The legend of the underground railroad," according to Larry Gara, "tells
                    of intrepid abolitionists sending multitudes of passengers over a well-organized transportation
                    system to the Promised Land of freedom" (p. 2). The legend had its origin in the ante
                    bellum period, but it reached its greatest flowering in reminiscences and memoirs published in the
                    generation following the Civil War. Later it was incorporated into many works of history as well as
                    fiction. Among historians, William H. Siebert did most to perpetuate the legend. In his numerous
                    writings Siebert relied heavily upon the reminiscences of former abolitionists and their
                    descendants. In his critical and scholarly little book Gara has used many of the materials which
                    Siebert collected but has come to different conclusions than Siebert did.
            Gara finds that the legend of the underground railroad, like most legends, contains some elements of
                    truth but also much exaggeration and folklore. His conclusions are not particularly startling, and
                    some of them have been anticipated by other historians, but his is the first systematic examination
                    of the legend. Briefly summarized his findings are as follows.
            First of all, there was no tightly knit organization on a national scale dedicated to helping slaves
                    escape, but there were a few localities in which there was a flourishing underground
                    railroad—as, for example, in eastern Indiana where Levi Coffin was active. Not all slaves
                    who ran away tried to come North. Some sought relatives or friends in the South or ran away and hid
                    to escape punishment. The number who actually reached the free states or 
                        Canada
                     was very small. The legend emphasized the daring and heroism of the white conductors of
                    the railroad rather than that of the slaves. In the revised version which Gara gives us,
                    "the abolitionists play a less important part and the escaping slaves a more important
                    one…" (p. 18). Slaves who escaped were likely to be those who were most
                    intelligent and who had had the greatest educational advantages. They usually made the break for
                    freedom on their own initiative and were largely self-reliant. Expectation of assistance from white
                    abolitionists in the North played little or no part in the decision of most slaves to try to escape.
                    In fact, slaves often were unaware of any organization in the North which might help them. The
                    escapees usually headed, when possible, for the homes of Negroes who might lend them aid. Obviously
                    the most difficult and  dangerous part of the escape involved
                    travel through slave states. Such aid as white abolitionists rendered was available only after the
                    most hazardous part of the fugitive's journey was accomplished.
            By no means all abolitionists supported underground railroad activities. Although they were usually
                    ready to help an individual fugitive who happened to come their way, many abolitionists looked
                    askance at efforts to entice slaves to escape, preferring to use legal rather than illegal means to
                    gain their ends. Moreover, many of them felt that assistance to fugitives did not really weaken the
                    institution of slavery, which was their real objective. Nevertheless the fugitive slave issue,
                    especially after the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, and the sight of runaway slaves were powerful
                    factors in converting northerners to antislavery views.
            Emma Lou Thornbrough, 
                  
                            Butler
                         University
            
         
         
            
               Old Gentlemen's Convention: The 
                            Washington
                         Peace Conference of 1861. By Robert Gray Gunderson. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xiii, 168. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            The title of this book is taken by its author from the characterization which Horace Greeley
                    derisively made of the 
                        Washington
                     Peace Conference. It was, in fact, largely an old man's convention as measured
                    by the standards of longevity in those days, for out of the 132 delegates who actually attended,
                    only seven were under forty years of age and twelve were seventy or more.
            Representatives from twenty-one states met in 
                        Washington
                     on February 4, 1861, for the purpose of applying in the sectional dispute that old
                    American custom of compromising, which had saved the day on several important occasions in the past.
                    But as Professor Hesseltine notes in his Foreword, extremists in both North and South had passed
                    beyond the point where they were willing to give and take.
            Though a convention to compromise sectional difficulties had been suggested as early as the summer of
                    1860, nothing concrete developed until 
                        Virginia
                     called for such a convention in January, 1861; but the very day on which the delegates
                    assembled in Willard's Hotel Hall there also assembled in 
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               , delegates
                    who were soon to organize the Confederate 
                        United States
                     of America. Although some leaders who were setting up the Confederacy were willing to
                    re-enter a "reconstructed" Union, it was now late in the day for compromise.
            Of the twenty-one states that sent delegates to 
                        Washington
                    , only six were slave states, and all of the free states were not represented.
                            
                  Minnesota, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Michigan
                     sent no delegates, and the Pacific states were too far away to attend. There was no
                    chance of the convention working out a compromise that would be accepted by northern and southern
                    extremists, who in reality were largely in charge of the destinies of the country, although there is
                    a general opinion among historians, shared by the author of this book, that a majority of the people
                    in both North and South would have accepted a compromise—the compromise that the
                    convention worked out or the Crittenden Compromise,  which had
                    been devised but not accepted in the Senate. Both the Peace Convention Compromise and the Crittenden
                    Compromise were in essence largely similar—both dealing only with the slavery issue, and
                    if adopted either would have become the Thirteenth Amendment.
            The author, Professor Gunderson, of Indiana University's Department of Speech and Theatre,
                    has as a sort of underlying theme which he in no wise belabors, the importance of propaganda,
                    oratory as well as the printed word, in capturing men's hearts and souls. The extremists
                    worked it overtime. Though there were economic issues more fundamental than slavery, yet people
                    could be emotionalized over slavery easier than over any other issue. The moderates or conservatives
                    failed to employ devices to capture people's emotions. This study, based on a widespread
                    search of newspapers, manuscript collections, as well as the records of the convention, offers a
                    valuable approach to the outbreak of the Civil War as well as an excellent analysis of the
                    convention and its activities.
            E. Merton Coulter, University of 
                            Georgia
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Prologue to Sumter: The Beginnings of the Civil War from the John 
                            Brown
                         Raid to the Surrender of Fort Sumter. Edited by Philip 
                        Van
                     Doren Stern. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1961. Pp. xvi, 576. Illustrations, maps, index.
                    $9.95.)
            
               Soldier Life in the Union and Confederate Armies. Edited by Philip 
                        Van
                     Doren Stern. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1961. Pp. ix, 400. Illustrations, index. $6.95.)
            As the Civil War centennial years begin, noted author and editor Philip 
                        Van
                     Doren Stern makes his contribution toward refreshing the general reader's
                    interest in those exciting events between John 
                        Brown
                    's attack at Harpers Ferry and the surrender of Major Anderson at Fort Sumter.
                    To arrange and present a meaningful account of the politics and people of that period is the
                    objective of Prologue to Sumter. In this work, which is a collection of excerpts
                    from writings pertinent to his topic, Editor Stern draws from diaries, official records, newspapers,
                    and several secondary works. In the main, he chooses well from the mass of materials concerning the
                    ominous period under consideration.
            In each of the twelve sections of Prologue to Sumter Stern builds up suspense about
                    the fate of the Union as he presents through the words of historians, soldiers, statesmen, and plain
                    folk what was occurring in the North and the South as the two areas drifted helplessly into a
                    brothers' war. Often these accounts are skillfully arranged to bring into sharp focus the
                    theme of a section, building toward the climax at Sumter. This is particularly true of the sections
                    entitled "The Union is Dissolved," "Storm over the White House,"
                    and "The Rack of Indecision." It is unfortunate that the section dealing with the
                    South's preparation for war is not broader in scope to include more of what was going on in
                    the several southern states.
            
            A companion piece to Stern's Sumter is his Soldier Life in
                        the Union and Confederate Armies. In this work he presents selections from previously
                    published reminiscences of two former soldiers who wrote of their Civil War experiences. Of the two
                    authors, the Union veteran Billings overshadows ex-Confederate McCarthy in his descriptions of what
                    it meant to be a soldier. The McCarthy work gives clearly the viewpoint of a lost cause; yet this
                    fact is not fully noted by Stern, who chooses not to include portions of the McCarthy work that make
                    this theme quite clear. Stern's selections of portions of McCarthy's and
                    Billings' books do bring the general reader to realize just how emotional the fighting men
                    of 1861-1865 were during the last of the chivalrous wars.
            S. J. Clapp, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, Report of the Adjutant General: A Reprint of
                        Volume 1 of the Eight-Volume Report Prepared by W. H. H. Terrell and Published in 1869. Indiana
                        Historical Collections, Volume XLI. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1960. Pp. xii, 603. Appendix, index. Paperbound,
                    $2.50; cloth-bound, $6.00.)
            In 1869, W. H. H. Terrell, adjutant general for the state of Indiana during the latter part of the
                    Civil War, issued the Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana. The
                    work included eight volumes and covered the entire period of the Civil War. The first of the eight
                    volumes was the most significant one as an historical source. It was composed of 466 pages of text
                    supplemented by 372 pages of statistics and documents describing Indiana's participation in
                    the great war. The remaining seven volumes were largely composed of rosters of Indiana officers and
                    soldiers.
            The volume under review is a reprint of the major portions of Terrell's Volume I. It
                    corrects certain typographical errors and changes punctuation in a manner consistent with better
                    usage. It has also been organized into chapters. Minor text material and most of the statistical and
                    documentary supplements have been omitted. These omissions have been noted in the new edition, and
                    reference is made by means of footnotes citing the original Volume I. The remaining statistical and
                    documentary supplements which are reprinted include the summary of troops furnished by the state of
                    Indiana, the chronological list of engagements in which Indiana troops participated, and the
                    campaigns in which Indiana troops participated. An index for the volume has also been supplied. In
                    addition, there is a thoughtful Foreword by the eminent Bell I. Wiley, of Emory University, chairman
                    of the Committee on Historical Activities of the National Civil War Centennial Commission, and an
                    anonymous editorial note with biographical data concerning Terrell.
            In considering the value of this reprint, it should first be said that any study of
                    Indiana's participation in the Civil War begins with the Adjutant General's
                    report. Because it is in many respects a direct transcript of original documents, it is a primary
                    source for a wide  range of facts. For these
                    facts, there is no usable substitute for this volume. These facts include such things as the number
                    of Indiana regiments raised and their terms of service; the operations of the draft in Indiana;
                    facts about the Indiana Legion, the "home guard" of the period; military
                    financing; relief of soldiers and their families, including the activities of the Indiana Sanitary
                    Commission; and the manufacture of ammunition in Indiana. The reprint also contains a caveat
                    pointing up the limitations of the work when it departs from factual data and pursues
                    interpretations of Indiana politics of the Civil War period.
            The caveat attached to the reprint is in the form of Wiley's Foreword. Although he was not
                    asked and did not set forth details, he does refer to the widely accepted traditional view of
                    Indiana politics during the period of the Civil War and immediately thereafter. According to this
                    tradition, Oliver P. Morton and his faction of the Republican party appear as the exclusive
                    champions of the Union in Indiana. The Democrats are cast as southern sympathizers, men actively
                    seeking to destroy the Union. Also featured are the Knights of the Golden Circle and the Sons of
                    Liberty, secret organizations with loyalties to the Confederacy. According to the tradition, the
                    line between these latter organizations and the Democratic party is very indistinctly drawn.
            As is true of so many historical traditions, that concerning Indiana Civil War politics is elusive.
                    Within each of the traditional characterizations of the warring political elements there lies
                    sufficient truth and apparent truth to make rebuttal difficult. Only in relatively recent years have
                    studies appeared raising any questions about the tradition. In 1949 Kenneth M. Stampp issued Indiana Politics during the Civil War (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.), an able book which mutes the high colors of the tradition. Frank L. Klement has
                    recently carried the revision further with an exposition which is also well done (The
                        Copperheads in the Middle West [
                        Chicago
                    , Ill., I960]). In addition to questioning the stereotypes of the tradition, these
                    studies show that Governor Morton and his colleagues actively and consciously assisted in the
                    creation of the tradition by accusations of disloyalty against their opponents and by elaborate
                    charades designed to create the impression of imminent peril to the state. W. H. H. Terrell was a
                    Morton man. Not surprisingly, his report accepted the premises of the Morton administration and
                    therefore assisted in carrying along the myth. This is the point which Wiley makes in his Foreword,
                    so that the reprint, unlike the original, may be evaluated with a view to its limitations.
            A republication and wider dissemination of the facts contained in this volume make
                    this reprint worthwhile. This value is increased because of the better organization and indexing of
                    the reprint as compared to the original work. And because of the caveat, the benefits of the reprint
                    are not mitigated by the inclusion of the traditional partisan view of internal politics. The
                    Indiana Historical Society and its editors have therefore done extremely well in bringing forth this
                    book.
            Alan T. Nolan, 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
         
            
               Battles of the Civil War, 1861–1865: A Pictorial Presentation. (
                        Little Rock
                    , Ark.: Pioneer Press, Civil War Publications, Inc., 1960. No pagination. Numerous
                    illustrations. De luxe edition, $25.00; regular edition, $18.00.)
            This impressive publication is introduced by letters from General U. S. Grant, III, and Robert E.
                    Lee, IV, together with the pictures of their illustrious military forbearers. It is composed of
                    reprints of thirty-six battle scenes published by Kurtz and Allison, 
                        Chicago
                    , during the decade 1884–1894. The battle scenes are arranged
                    chronologically, and each carries the date of original publication. The originals have been hunted
                    out from a variety of archives and libraries, and each repository is given due credit.
            Besides the reprints, the publication gives a narrative of the battle pictured. The authors include
                    trained historians, military men with a flair for the Civil War, and a variety of others who are
                    just plain enthusiasts. The narratives on the whole are well done and above the mere traditional
                    level. The choice of authors has been fortunate considering the fact that the publication is part of
                    the centennial offering, and the Civil War buff must be its chief supporter.
            The publisher does not vouch for accuracy of the battle series but does point out that Lincoln sent
                    Kurtz to battlefields to make sketches. These sketches are presumably reflected in the prints issued
                    by the firm Kurtz headed though they came out several years after the war. Some do show familiarity
                    with the battle terrain, but for the most part they stress traditional high points of the battle. In
                    this area—the traditional battle—the historian of the period will find his
                    chief interest. Published nearly a generation after the war, the prints reflect interpretations
                    already stereotyped and point up things related to the war that still lived. Here and there one
                    detects the "cavalier," and the "rebel charge" is frequent.
                    There is a little touch of the abolitionist detectable. The action of Negro troops is stressed, and
                    in the Fort Pillow affair all the basics of Uncle Tom's Cabin are
                    depicted. The proportionate stress on western battles shows the 
                        Chicago
                     origin of the prints.
            The publisher has spared no effort in reproducing these postwar mementos of the great conflict. The
                    book is an excellent job from every angle, and for the Civil War buff who specializes in the area,
                    it is a must.
            A. W. Crandall, De Pauw University
            
         
         
            
               Conservative Crisis and the Rule of Law: Attitudes of Bar and Bench,
                        1887–1895. By Arnold M. Paul. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N.Y.: Cornell University Press, for the American Historical Association, 1960. Pp.
                    viii, 256. Bibliography, table of cases, index. $4.75.)
            At its 1895 term the Supreme Court handed down three significant decisions. In the Knight sugar trust case it narrowly interpreted the word "commerce" so
                    as to exclude manufacturing within the meaning of the Sherman Antitrust Act. In the Debs case it upheld a lower court's injunction against the leaders of the
                    American Railway Union, recently involved in the Pullman strike. And in the Pollock case it  invalidated the controversial federal
                    income tax of 1894. To advocates of social reform, this term of the Court seemed to mark an
                    unfortunate victory for laissez-faire conservatism. Judicial supremacy in government, they
                    complained, was obstructing indispensable public policies.
            In this volume, Professor Paul traces the "revolutionary" course of legal thought
                    during the preceding decade from a traditional conservatism to novel, "right-wing"
                    positions of the mid-1890's. From research in law journals, bar association publications,
                    and judicial reports he gathered his materials for an interesting study in intellectual as well as
                    constitutional history. Year by year the attitudes of bar and bench reflected the rising social
                    tensions of an industrial nation. Increasingly, conservatives were disturbed by the assaults or
                    menaces against corporate wealth and power. Their search for protection of property rights pointed
                    naturally to the judiciary as the most reliable defender against majoritarian oppression. One of the
                    many evidences of this shifting legal philosophy was the shrinking state police power as judges read
                    a new doctrine of substantive due process of law into the Fourteenth Amendment. Thus railroad rates
                    must be reasonably regulated—in the judgment of the courts, not the
                    legislatures.
            One has the impression that the tone of the book is too partisan. Steadfastly, the author sympathizes
                    with the reformers and censures the "new" conservatives. Consequently, he is
                    probably led into some errors and misunderstandings. His discussion of substantive due process of
                    law is an example. Although that doctrine was new during the 1890's in the context of the
                    Fourteenth Amendment, its antecedents can be found well back in English and American history.
                    Lawyers' arguments in the Dartmouth College case (1819), Ogden v. Saunders (1827), and Groves v. Slaughter (1841) are a few, and
                    not the first, statements of the idea. If John Marshall had had his way (and he almost did) in Ogden v. Saunders, he would have transformed the contract clause
                    into a due process clause. Actually, the line between what Professor Paul approves as
                    "procedural" due process and what he disapproves as
                    "substantive" is a very shadowy one. Indeed the rationale of substantive due
                    process was procedural. Fair trial in court, with all the traditional guarantees
                    for individual rights that this connotes, was due process, while legislative enactments confiscating
                    property or just profits were not. The trouble may not have been so much with the judges'
                    legal rules as with the judges themselves. The judicial process always necessitates a choice of
                    alternatives and a balancing of substantial competing interests. During this period of history the
                    bench and bar were not yet educated to economic realities or to the needs and aspirations of a large
                    number of the American people. This is what Brandeis saw when, as an attorney before the Supreme
                    Court, he set out to educate their honors by his celebrated factual briefs. By the way, those who
                    later deplored substantive due process of law in the economic area (Holmes among them) were usually
                    quite willing to apply the doctrine rigorously in behalf of civil liberties.
            Notwithstanding such points of interpretation, where there is much room for divergent opinion, the
                    book is, on the whole, a good one. Professor Paul cuts a new swath in the yet uncleared field of
                    legal  thought for a period of special interest. Further work of
                    this kind is needed before a broader and improved synthesis of constitutional history can be
                    achieved. The author well deserved the Beveridge Award of the American Historical Association.
            Maurice G. Baxter, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The American Newspaperman. By Bernard A. Weisberger. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. x, 226. Illustrations, chronology, suggested reading, index.
                    $4.50.)
            Historians often are inclined to believe that there has been a steady decline in the quality of the
                    American newspaper since the end of the nineteenth century when Joseph Pulitzer and William 
                        Randolph
                     Hearst created sensationalism. Newspapermen generally disagree with this
                    interpretation, pointing to the fact that twentieth-century newspapers, for all their entertainment
                    features, contain far more of solid news information—reported considerably more exactly
                    and expeditiously—than those of the previous century. Assigned to write a compact volume
                    on newspapers as a part of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    's series on the history of American civilization, Bernard A. Weisberger
                    balances the two points of view fairly well. The reader may find consideration of the point of view
                    of intellectuals who regret the coming of newspaper "empires" and consideration of
                    that of professionals who appreciate the increased objectivity of the press.
            "There is no need for despair," Weisberger writes. "It would be foolhardy
                    to insist flatly that the makers and molders of journalism will never break through the limitations
                    of the mass-communications newspaper to answer the challenge of the age. A new American newspaperman
                    may yet emerge, wielding some unforeseen cost-cutting mechanism, reaching for some as yet
                    unsuspected audience, shouting, shaping, innovating, and carrying on the traditions of a calling
                    which, all in all, has had many things to boast of" (p. 203).
            Weisberger came to the field of journalism through a study written a decade ago, which was rather
                    undistinguished, of reporters on the Union side in the Civil War. His new book has more sweep. He is
                    by profession a cultural historian and appropriately treats the press as an aspect of the
                    nation's cultural history. He also follows the pattern of several journalism historians in
                    emphasizing economic currents in the stream of the American press, the fiscal and mechanical
                    developments.
            For the scholar in the field of journalism, the new book will be less satisfactory than either Frank
                    L. Mott's volume or that of Edwin Emery and Henry L. Smith. Although both of those are
                    written as textbooks, they are more substantial than the present book. Weisberger's book
                    may be more useful to the conventional historian and to the lay reader. At least one insight in the
                    new synthesis may be useful even to students of journalism history. This is the interpretation of
                    the first half of the nineteenth century as a period of "special audience" papers.
                    Traditionally, that era has been called the period of the "party press."
                    Weisberger's interpretation seems a more inclusive one.
            
            One fault of the book is a fault of scholarship in the field generally. This is an overemphasis upon
                    the development of the press in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Washington
                    . An outstanding characteristic of the American press is its
                    provincialism—the fact that this country, unlike Britain, 
                        France
                    , Russia, and 
                        Argentina
                    , for example, has never developed a national journalism. As Weisberger shows, there
                    were the beginnings of such a national press first in 
                        Washington
                     and then in 
                        New York
                    , but provincialism won out. The newspapers of the provincial cities like 
                        Kansas
                     City, 
                  Louisville, Minneapolis, Atlanta
               , and 
                        Los Angeles
                     have represented more truly the pattern of American journalism than those of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , yet relatively few careful studies have been made of the press in important provincial
                    cities and almost none at all in lesser cities. Weisberger, like others before him, has had to
                    depend upon the literature available.
            Sexson E. Humphreys, The 
                            Indianapolis
                         News
            
         
         
            
               Professional Diplomacy in the 
                            United States
                        , 1779–1939: A Study in Administrative History. By 
                        Warren
                     Frederick Ilchman. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. 254. Bibliographical essay, index. $6.00.)
            In the past decade there has developed among historians and political scientists an interest in
                    administrative history. 
                        Warren
                     Ilchman offers a significant contribution to this expanding field in his study of the
                    growth of a professional diplomatic corps within the Department of State. In this initial study the
                    author concentrates on the gradual transformation of American representatives on the secretarial
                    level from temporary political appointees to career officers selected on the basis of competitive
                    examinations. A future volume will examine developments on the ministerial level, compare American
                    and British experience, and judge what influence the movement toward professional diplomacy has had
                    on the conduct of American foreign policy.
            Ilchman's research was wide, varied, and solid. Perhaps the only materials not investigated
                    which could have added much to a study of this type were the individual, confidential records of the
                    secretaries which the Department of State has not, and in all probability will not, open to
                    historians. Much of the research is condensed into statistics demonstrating the increasing tenure of
                    the secretaries after the profession was placed on a career basis, the growing number and quality of
                    applicants taking the examinations, and the high percentage of graduates of eastern colleges
                    appointed to the foreign service.
            The statistical approach, however, does not make for easy reading; the figures are valuable, but many
                    of them belong in footnotes and not in the text. The book is for the specialist who will use it as a
                    valuable reference work. The general reader, however, will find little that holds his interest in a
                    mass of figures and chapters that increase in length from forty to sixty-seven pages; long chapters
                    written in the weak passive voice simply do not hold a reader's attention. A more serious
                    defect is that the author is not always clear in his explanations; a good example of this failure is
                    with regard to the awarding of bonus points  on the competitive
                    examinations to applicants who did not receive the requisite score. This gift made it possible for
                    some of the failures to receive appointments to the foreign service. By whose authority this policy
                    was carried out and why is never explained. It would seem to be a rather serious defect in a system
                    designed to produce quality candidates and certainly deserves explanation. In addition, the author
                    on numerous occasions refers to various men by their last names only and never fully identifies
                    them. An incomplete index adds to the confusion. The old maxim that one should spend as much time on
                    writing as on research was apparently violated by a promising young scholar.
            Thomas H. Buckley, University of South Dakota
            
         
         
            
               The American Historical Association's Guide to Historical Literature.
                    Edited by George Frederick Howe et al. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1961. Pp. xxxv, 962. Index. $16.50.)
            No reviewer will approach such a book as this with confidence. The volume lies heavily on his desk,
                    familiar in its AHR-blue jacket, but forbidding inside with its double columns of
                    dense print. All these monographs and narratives and biographies and collections of printed sources
                    and atlases! How does one discover whether anything significant has been left out (beyond the small
                    point where the book moves across the reviewer's cultivated patch) or something unworthy
                    included? But even when omissions are found, or an occasional lack of balance noted, there is no
                    ground for criticism in view of the vast amount of material which has been assembled between the
                    covers. Better to examine the principles governing selection and arrangement and test the book by
                    its success in meeting the challenge of its own purpose.
            As stated by the editors, this new bibliography is to be not merely an aid to students and fledgling
                    specialists but a demonstration of the vital part played by the historical craft in our
                    interpretation of mankind's collective experience. One turns with greatest interest,
                    therefore, to the initial section on "History and Related Studies," where the
                    whole scale of problems concerning scope and method and meaning of history is taken up. The very
                    first impression is disappointing. An unfortunately self-conscious essay pleads the
                    historian's case to be taken seriously as viewer of the world, and does it in a ponderous
                    style which will not persuade many readers that history can be an attractive subject. But the
                    listings that follow are excellently chosen and, in many cases, aptly characterized. The only major
                    omission occurs among the list of journals devoted to general historical problems: History and Theory, the first number of which appeared in 1960. It would be nice to think
                    that our colleagues will encourage their students to make their way through a sampling of these
                    books on the nature and theory of history, but that is perhaps an unrealistic hope.
            The brief introductory essays to the sections that follow are appropriate and serve to hold otherwise
                    centrifugal material to the vital center of historical concerns. There is a useful account of
                    "General  Reference Resources," a generous
                    list of universal histories and of histories of religion. The arrangement of the sections on
                    "Historical Beginnings" and on Middle Periods shows the influence of Toynbee, but
                    the items listed include the most recent works on archaeology and anthropology. In accordance with
                    one of the stated purposes of the book, the student finds his native parochialism attacked by
                    frequent confrontations with the nonwestern world. This restoration of Welt-geschichte to its proper proportions is justification enough for the new bibliography.
                    But it gives us much more besides. There is a strong argument in favor of mastering the scholarly
                    languages; the mere itemizing of the best choices in historical reading shows why linguistic
                    training must precede, not follow, serious occupation with history. For every major topic there is
                    an excellent selection of the most important collections of printed sources and sometimes a
                    paragraph on libraries and museums. The brief comments on individual books vary considerably in
                    quality; some (as in the section on Greek historiography) are apt and informative, others jejune. A
                    number of English translations have not been caught up with, Marrou's History
                        of Education in Antiquity, for instance. But so much is presented that one cannot really
                    notice gaps. The history of science is represented, and so are the military arts. The modern period,
                    especially, is bewildering in its richness, with sections on the Americas, Africa, Australasia and
                    Oceania following upon Europe and its adjacent areas.
            The final section is a lengthy survey, miscellaneous in character, of "The World in Recent
                    Times." There is a good index of names and topics. Perhaps the best thing that can be said
                    about this book is that, in addition to its practical usefulness, it makes good reading for anyone
                    who wants at least to sample with his eyes the sumptuous feast of mankind's historical
                    tradition. It is to be hoped that those who use the book do so not only to consult, but also to
                    browse.
            Gerald Strauss, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               America's Polish Heritage: A Social History of the Poles in America. By
                    Joseph A. Wytrwal. (
                        Detroit
                    , Mich.: [Endurance Press], 1961. Pp. xxxi, 350. Maps, bibliography, appendix, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Despite the subtitle, this is not a social history of the Poles in America. Instead it is largely a
                    laudatory account of the part played by individual Poles and those of Polish descent in American
                    life. That the study is not entirely historical is indicated by the emphasis placed on contemporary
                    personalities. If the author's objective was to satisfy the pride of Polish-Americans, he
                    did his job well. The depth of his scholarship is also indicated by the fact that he covers the
                    period from 1608 to 1960 in only 294 pages.
            Dr. Wytrwal inserts much superfluous material in this study. Pages are devoted to phases of Polish
                    history, particularly in the years before 1870, which have no connection with Polish emigration to
                    America. Gilda Gray and her "shimmy" dance are given almost a page. Also, is it
                    necessary to present a long list of baseball, football, and golf stars, many of whom are active
                    today, merely because they are of Polish  descent? The author
                    was apparently concerned with the sale of his book. Otherwise, the listing of the names of at least
                    150 delegates of Polish descent to the Democratic national conventions of 1956 and 1960 and to the
                    Republican convention of 1960 in the same footnote is hardly justified.
            The most scholarly portions of this volume are those chapters devoted to the numerous fraternal
                    organizations for Polish-Americans. The objectives of these orders were to satisfy the longing of
                    the bewildered immigrant for security in a strange land, to protect his economic interests, to
                    preserve a degree of Polish culture as well as to retain contact with the mother country, and
                    finally to fit the immigrant into the American pattern of life. The largest and most important of
                    these organizations were the Polish American Catholic Union (PRCU) and the Polish National Alliance
                    (PNA). The former was dominated largely by the clergy while the latter was more under secular
                    control.
            This study is based almost entirely on secondary material such as Polish-American publications and
                    the works of writers of Polish descent. There is an excellent bibliography, and the index is
                    adequate.
            Powell A. Moore, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               History of South Dakota. By Herbert S. Schell. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xiii, 424. Maps, illustrations, list of supplementary reading, index.
                    $5.50.)
            Many remember well the drab, lifeless state histories produced as recently as the 1930's. In
                    appearance they were as unexciting to the reader's eye as their texts were to his mind.
                    Fortunately mid-century examples of the genre are things of beauty to both eye and mind; to this
                    list, including John W. Caughey's 
                        
                            California
                        
                     (1940) and—best of them all, perhaps—W. L. Morton's 
                        
                            Manitoba
                        
                     (1955), must be added Dean Schell's centennial volume, South
                    Dakota.
            
            In this tightly packed volume are included most of the facts pertinent to the story of the state.
                    Even more important are inferences and judgements based on the record. A few of them are: that the
                    vested interests of the towns objected to attempts to keep land transactions honest; that
                    speculators received the most advantage from the homestead law; that lax administration of land laws
                    "retarded social progress" by speeding the development of farm tenancy. And,
                    writing in a time more bedeviled and generally troubled than Americans of World War I could have
                    imagined, Dean Schell is forthrightly critical of the Council of Defense and of overzealous patriots
                    in the years 1917–1919. In a fine chapter on pioneer life he advances the view of Gilbert
                    C. Fite (a native of Wessington Springs, S.D.) that frontier life while hard was not so drab and
                    dull as usually pictured. The work is uniformly good, but the chapters on the range cattle industry,
                    immigration, and the fortunes of the Indians are especially interesting and filled with graphic
                    detail and insight.
            This reader misses a map showing not only towns but also identifying rivers and railroads mentioned
                    in the text. He regrets the comparative  neglect of the role of
                    churches, the absence of an effort to explain the the one-party character of the state, and the
                    little space that has been given to the problem of maintaining a modern American community in a
                    region that is, at best, subhumid. The author notes in Chapter 20 that in the present era of
                    unprecedented prosperity the cost of government is almost more than the handful of South Dakotans
                    can meet—even with generous help from the industrial East. A resident of the other
                    Dakota, where the water problem is a critical one, regrets Dean Schell's failure to
                    consider their region's long-term prospects.
            All persons interested in the most northerly tier of trans-
                        Mississippi
                     states will profit from this well-written, interestingly-illustrated account of one of
                    those states, an account based on thirty years of research and thirty-six of residence and
                    observation.
            Robert P. Wilkins, University of 
                            North Dakota
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Review Policies⋆
            
            TO: Reviewers of Books for the Indiana Magazine of History
            
            FROM: Donald F. Carmony, Editor
            We solicit the cooperation of reviewers for the Indiana Magazine of History
                    regarding the following points:
            
               If unexpected circumstances make it impossible for you to prepare your review by the date
                        scheduled, please let us hear from you indicating when the review may be expected. (Your review
                        has been scheduled to appear in a particular issue.) The review of this book is due
                        ⋆⋆⋆;allotted wordage is
               Please attempt to keep the length of your review within the limit suggested. If additional
                        space seems essential, however, please write indicating why and by how much you think review
                        length should be increased.
               Indicate page references for all quotations except for those quotations from the Preface or
                        some other brief section which you can clearly label in the text of your review.
               Reproduce the title heading exactly as it appears in the letter inviting you
                        to review this book. (If any errors are detected, please indicate them.)
               Please type review copy using double-spacing and wide margins. By all means give thoughtful
                        and careful attention to the composition and organization of your review. Reviews should be
                        completed at least two weeks ahead of schedule, laid aside for a week or so, then smoothed,
                        pruned, verified, and mailed.
               If we have major revisions to propose in your copy, it will normally be returned to you for
                        review before it is sent to the printer. If relatively minor changes are involved (or time is
                        quite limited), proposed changes may be looked over in first galley. Reviewers are automatically
                        mailed a first galley, which is to be checked and returned immediately to the office of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
               Your review should indicate the nature of the book reviewed and its contents, but do not
                        attempt to reproduce the table of contents or chapter headings. Certainly you should
                        evaluate—giving evidence— both weaknesses and merits of the volume. In
                        particular, seek to make clear to readers what the author proposed to do in writing
                            the book. An author should be judged—whether favorably or
                        unfavorably–with regard to the book he actually wrote. In making
                        evaluations, forthright and courteous statements are nearly always more effective, as well as
                        kinder, than blunt attacks, wisecracks, personal darts, overstatements, and the like. Reviewers
                        should make at least random tests of the author's accuracy concerning basic facts,
                        quotations, citations, etc. If errors indicating bias or poor craftsmanship are located, perhaps
                        a few samples should be noted. A review is no place, however, for a detailed list of errata.
               Normally 5–10 tear sheets of your review are available and are automatically mailed
                        to you.
            
            Many thanks for reviewing this volume. Let us know if you have suggestions or questions for
                    consideration.
            
               
                  ⋆ The points ennumerated here comprise the policies of the Indiana Magazine of History on the reviewing of books for its pages. This list
                        is to be made available to individual book reviewers and is published here for the information
                        of the magazine's readers.
            
         
         
         
            Lilly Fellowships in American History
            As part of the Lilly Program in American History, commenced in 1960, the Department of History,
                    Indiana University, announces that approximately forty-five to fifty Lilly Fellowships in American
                    History will be awarded during the spring of 1962. These fellowships, valued at $1,000
                    each, will be awarded to prospective and present teachers of American history in the junior and
                    senior high schools of the state. Recipients of Lilly Fellowships will study American history and
                    related subjects during three successive summer sessions and pursue independent study on a part-time
                    basis during two school years.
            
               The deadline for submitting applications for the Lilly Fellowships in American History
                        is February 15, 1962. Information about the program and application forms are available
                    from Dr. John E. Wiltz, Assistant Director, Lilly Program in American History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. The Lilly Program in American History was made possible by a grant of
                    $156,000 from the Lilly Endowment, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In addition to the Lilly Fellowships, the program includes visits to junior and senior
                    high schools of the state by members of the Department of History, the preparation of reading lists
                    on American history for use at both the junior and senior high school levels, and the addition of a
                    new six-hour course in American history for teachers at the graduate level. Professor Donald F.
                    Carmony is director of the Lilly Program in American History. He may be reached at the same address
                    as Dr. Wiltz.
         
         
         
            Correction—"Caleb Townes"
            In its June issue of this year the Indiana Magazine of History published an
                    interesting and informative letter under the title of "From 
                        Old Vincennes
                    , 1815," a letter said to have been written by Caleb Townes. From two alert
                    readers we have learned the "Caleb Townes" was actually Caleb Lownes. The editors
                    of this letter and the Indiana Magazine of History jointly express their
                    appreciation for the correction. Both of them had proofread the letter against the original and
                    misread the L as a T. Both wish that Caleb Lownes had formed his
                    capital letters more carefully!
         
         
            Information Concerning Claude G. Bowers Desired
            Professor Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    , of the Department of History, University of 
                  Kentucky, Lexington
               , Ky., is
                    gathering material for a biography of the late Claude G. Bowers. Ambassador Bowers was born in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Indiana. He lived in Whitestown, 
                  Lebanon,
                            Indianapolis, Terre
                        Haute
               , and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . A long-time member of the Indiana Historical Society, Professor 
                        Hamilton
                     will appreciate receiving suggestions regarding letters, documents, and recollections
                    of Bowers.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
