
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 98, Issue 4, pages 261-351. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:98+issue:4+year:2002&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editor's Note
            Across from the desk at which I write these words of introduction there stands a tall bookcase, its
                    shelves nearly filled with ninety-eight volumes—almost four hundred issues—of
                    one of the nation's oldest continuously published historical journals: the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            As the IMH approaches its centennial, its accomplishment of consistently providing readers with
                    interesting historical material at a quarterly pace seems rather historic in itself. That the
                    magazine has done so attests to many things: to its dedicated staff, to the support and cooperation
                    of Indiana University and the Indiana Historical Society, to the fine writers who have shared their
                    work with readers and scholars around the state and across the globe, and to a line of distinguished
                    editors, including most recently Bernard Sheehan, whose historical insight and acute judgment have
                    left their mark on these pages in a way that will not be forgotten.
            And yet, as even a glance at the covers of the volumes lining my bookcase makes clear, this
                    consistency has left room for change. Within the boundaries set by its regional focus and its
                    scholarly standards, this journal has, not surprisingly, evolved in its look and content, and it
                    will continue to do so. Some fraction of that change, perhaps, reflects the individuals who have sat
                    in this chair and stared at that tall bookcase before me. Like them, I am the temporary steward of a
                    valued document with a past and future that extend far beyond my own term. But like them, too, I
                    come with preferences and expectations that will color the material that appears on these
                    pages—sometimes in ways that I can anticipate but more often, I suspect, in ways that I
                    cannot.
            It may or may not matter, then, that I am a midwesterner—although not an
                    Indianan—and that the history, culture, and politics of this state therefore feel to me
                    familiar in some respects, new in most others. (If nothing else, this means that I will expect each
                    issue to be as instructive to me as it is to any reader.) The fact that I come to this desk from a
                    career divided between university teaching and professional endeavors sometimes lumped together
                    under the rubric of "public history"—historic preservation and, more
                    recently, museum work—may in some way leave its mark on the journal's content,
                    as well: I will confess to bringing with me an interest in the great variety of ways in which people
                    create, acquire, and use historical knowledge in their daily lives.
            Yet far more important to the IMH's future character will be the changing times in which it
                    appears. Historical writing arises from the intersection of contemporary concerns with the available
                    record of the past, both of which are forever changing, and therefore reflects the circumstances of
                    its making as much as it does the times on which it focuses.
            Our own time seems an exceptionally good one for people interested in rethinking the topics and
                    techniques of history. Recent  research has confirmed the
                    evidence, suggested anecdotally by book sales and museum attendance figures, that Americans today
                    are actively applying and assessing what they learn of the past.1 In part, this
                    flurry of activity reflects the hard-won opening up of historical practice to new, and sometimes
                    disputed, points of view. The intellectual journey within the historical profession itself, in
                    pursuit of an objective and scientific perspective from which to view the past, has led in the last
                    century not to a stately overlook but onto the platform of a moving train, forever shifting its view
                    of what lies behind and what ahead. Drawing as much from Faulkner and Einstein as from Macaulay or
                    Gibbon, historians have been forced to face what most people already recognized from everyday
                    experience: that past forever shapes present and present inevitably colors past. Like one of
                    Indiana's unlikelier literary heroes, Kurt Vonnegut's Billy Pilgrim, we may find
                    the experience of coming "unstuck in time" an unsettling prospect; yet at some
                    level we know that it provides us with the rare moments of clarity and perspective that help us to
                    make sense of our lives.2
            
            The interplay of changing times with changing historical perspectives is especially well represented
                    in the pages of this long-lived journal. When the brilliant and energetic editor George Cottman
                    established the IMH in 1905, he dedicated it simply to "the preservation of local
                    history"—that is, to the task of rescuing from oblivion the facts that seemed to
                    be disappearing under the relentless pressure of modernization in this fast-growing state. Since
                    then, the magazine's steady effort to counter what Cottman later called, in typically blunt
                    fashion, Indianans' "universal stupid indifference"3
                    to their own past has itself changed with time. The IMH has grown less deferential to the limiting
                    powers of the state's political boundaries, more apt to apply a regional or national
                    perspective to events taking place within Indiana. Articles are, as a rule, more interpretive and
                    less descriptive or antiquarian in their focus. The lives of women, of African Americans, of
                    countless Hoosiers whose existence went little-remarked in their own time have been revealed to a
                    degree that early writers were unwilling or unable to attain. And while the journal has heeded
                    longtime editor Donald Carmony's warning against a "rootless absorption with
                    so-called contemporary history," the problems of the day have, in these and other ways,
                    continued to influence the manner in which IMH contributors and editors frame their study of the
                        past.4
            
            
               
                  1 See David Thelen and Roy Rosennveig, The Presence of the
                            Past: Popular Uses of History in American Life (
                            New York
                        , 1998).
               
                  2 Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse Five, or, the
                            Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death (
                            New York
                        , 1968), 23.
               
                  3 George S. Cottman, "The Indiana Magazine of History: A
                        Retrospect," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI(December 1929), 282.
               
                  4 Donald Carmony, "Editor's Pages," Indiana Magazine of History, LI (June 1955), 168.
            
            
            That act of framing (of choosing a few facts from among many and highlighting their relationship to
                    one another in a way that makes sense in the present) is essential to the historian's
                    craft. Like science or religion, it suggests the possibility of logic within the personalized and
                    seemingly random scale at which we experience life. Yet, as a look at the IMH's
                    transformation from George Cottman's time to our own reveals, the historical frame itself
                    changes from one generation to the next. As an editor, I consider it my responsibility not to
                    suppress but to highlight the complexity of our continually shifting modes of historical
                    explanation. The IMH will therefore examine not only the substance of past events but also the basic
                    questions that arise from our thinking about them: How do we know what we know of the thoughts and
                    intentions of others who came before us? Why do we care so much about what happened on the land, or
                    in the homes, that we occupy today? Such questions, embedded within everything that the journal has
                    ever published, perhaps deserve a fuller airing in their own right as we seek, like Indianans of a
                    century ago, to frame a point of view on the past that also serves to anchor us in a time of
                    tremendous change.
            History cannot be forced to be "useful" in this way, but at its best, it often
                    becomes so. The IMH exists to provide readers around the state and beyond not just with new stories
                    of bygone lives, but ultimately with a deeper understanding of what it means to be Indianans,
                    midwesterners, Americans, citizens of the world. In that goal, the journal has much to gain from
                    others considering the same question. Remaining firmly rooted in the practice of history, we may
                    nevertheless find reason in the years ahead to draw more than we have on the work of scientists,
                    artists, journalists, and other writers whose insights—rooted perhaps in different ways
                    of seeing or couched in different modes of expression—still promise to help us understand
                    why this state looks as it does, and how we became who we are.
            All of these ideas are meant to suggest a structure for thinking about continuity and change, not a
                    specific agenda for action. While broad ideas can set the journal on a general course, its
                    particular stops along the way will depend just as much on the day-to-day work at hand: articles to
                    read, books to review, letters to answer. This magazine cannot exist without remaining responsive to
                    the interests of the readers for whom it exists. We want to hear from you. The IMH website
                    (http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist), which already offers a partial index of the
                    journal's contents and will be steadily expanded in the coming years, is one venue for
                    increasing the contact between readers, writers, and editors. Like my predecessors, I also hope to
                    travel extensively, learning firsthand about the ways in which historical activity bears itself out
                    in individual communities, museums, and universities, and working to see that that vibrancy is
                    reflected in the pages of this journal.
            
            Through broad direction or particular exigency, the journal will change, as it always has. The
                    bookcase across the room will grow heavier under its quarterly accumulation of new ideas, new
                    discoveries, new inquiries into the history of this complicated, diverse region. Among those
                    inquiries, I hope, will be some that have touched your life. But it will be for someone else,
                    sitting at this desk long in the future, to judge better than I can just how well the IMH succeeded
                    in framing a connection between past and future at the turn of a new and unpredictable century.
            Eric Sandweiss
         
         
         
            The Origins of President Bryan's Medical School
            Walter J. Daly*
            
            The nineteenth century was a period of rapid advancement in medical science. American physicians
                    responded by striving to improve the practice of medicine and the education of future generations of
                    practitioners. In Indiana as elsewhere, the need to adopt higher standards of medical education was
                    widely recognized. How to do it was another matter, one that pitted university officers and medical
                    practitioners against each other in a contest that would determine whether medical education in the
                    state would continue to be owned and controlled by independent physicians or would fall under the
                    purview of universities. And, if university educators, which of the state's two major
                    institutions of higher education, both of which were vying for the honor, Indiana or Purdue, would
                    prevail? The contest was settled in 1908 with the absorption of several institutions into the
                    Indiana University system, an outcome that was made possible by the influence of a strong current of
                    reform, locally and nationally, as well as by the vision and determination of such key leaders as
                    Indiana University President William Lowe Bryan and physician/educator Allison Maxwell.
            The Indiana territorial legislature had authorized a medical department for the new college in 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1807. That department never developed. The state's first medical school,
                    established in 
                        New Albany
                     in 1833, seems to have been little more than a diploma mill. In the decades that
                    followed, twenty-four medical schools were created in Indiana. By 1900, only three regular schools
                    (committed to orthodox medicine) remained, in addition to three so-called sectarian schools training
                    homeopaths, herbalists, and others.1
            
            In 1846 Patrick Henry Jameson began the study of medicine in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a town of 7,000 with twenty-five physicians, most of them clustered along North
                    Meridian Street, near the Circle.2 With none of the nation's regular
                    medical schools located in Indiana, aspiring Hoosier physicians like Jameson faced the choice of
                    either apprenticing in a local office or leaving the state to attend a nearby medical 
                  
                     * Walter J. Daly is dean emeritus of Indiana University
                            School of Medicine, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 G. W. H. Kemper, A Medical History of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), 11.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 4, 1897.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM LOWE BRYAN, C. 1920
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                     school such as those in 
                        Cincinnati
                     (established in 1820 by Daniel Drake, perhaps the most important physician of
                    early-nineteenth-century America), 
                        Lexington
                    , or 
                        Louisville
                    . Jameson began his education with an apprenticeship in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office of Sanders and Perry, then left the state to attend lectures, first at the 
                        Louisville
                     Medical Institute (which later became 
                        Louisville
                     Medical College) and later at Jefferson Medical College in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he received his M.D. degree. By 1849, he had returned to practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he became a civic and professional leader. He was a long-serving trustee of the
                    Indiana Medical College and a trustee of the college that would become 
                        Butler
                     University.3
            
            By the middle of the nineteenth century, many Indiana physicians felt the need for a medical college
                    within their own state. Some, motivated by pride, wished to replicate themselves; others wished to
                    provide more broadly available medical care; some saw commercial advantage in professorial titles.
                    Early schools were started in LaPorte, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        Evansville
                    .4 The Indiana Central Medical College, organized in 1849 in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a branch of Asbury (later DePauw) University, had failed by 1852.5
            
            The Civil War promoted broad communication among physicians, general dissatisfaction with the prewar
                    preparation of physicians, and a hunger for new information. (World War II was to be followed by a
                    similar rapid expansion of medical service, education, and research.) In 1869, the Academy of
                    Medicine of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a physicians' professional group, organized the Indiana Medical College
                    (IMC), which asserted its independence from control by a university.6 IMC was to
                    be managed and staffed by the physicians of the community, nine of whom each borrowed about
                    $250 for start-up costs. John S. Bobbs, later to be remembered for performing the first
                    successful cholecystostomy (a surgical drainage of the gall bladder), was its first president. Until
                    a lecture hall was completed in the building the school had rented, students met in the Indiana
                    State Senate chambers. In 1870, a dividend of $2,725 (the equivalent of more than
                    $32,000, in today's terms) was distributed among the shareholders.7 Thus the original shareholders recovered their investments and turned a nice profit,
                    within a short time.
            
               
                  3 R. French Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians
                            and Surgeons (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1898), 249; Emmet F. Horine, Daniel Drak≑
                            (1785–1852): Pioneer Physician of the Midwest (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1961), 125, 167, 322.
               
                  4 Thaddeus M. Stevens, "Report on the Medical History of
                        Indiana," in Indiana State Medical Society Transactions, 1874, 17-18.
               
                  5 Faculty Minutes, 1848–1852, Indiana Central Medical College,
                        Box 7, Indiana University School of Medicine Records, 1848 to 1968 (hereafter cited as IUSM
                        Records), (Indiana University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        ).
               
                  6 Thaddeus M. Stevens, "Medical Colleges," in Indiana
                        State Medical Society Transactions, 1874, 18.
               
                  7 Faculty Minutes, August 3, 1869, August 18, 1870, Record of the
                        Proceedings of the Faculty of the Indiana Medical College, 1869–1878, Box 7
                        (hereafter cited as IMC Faculty Minutes), IUSM Records.
            
            
            A look at IMC's early records reveals the limited diversity of the school's student
                    body, a limitation characteristic of the era. On September 7, 1869, IMC faculty voted to admit women
                    on the same terms as men, although a woman's application on April 12, 1870, was deferred
                    indefinitely. The first woman to receive a medical degree from the college seems to have been
                    "E. A. Daniels (lady)," in 1876. A second woman, Mrs. E. W. Haverfield, graduated
                    in 1878.8 A black student completed his work satisfactorily in 1869 but was
                    denied a medical degree, and a subsequent faculty motion to admit African Americans was defeated on
                    September 9, 1870.9
            
            In 1876 IMC reorganized itself and combined with the College of Physicians and Surgeons (which had
                    been founded in 1873) to become the Medical College of Indiana (MCI). In 1879 several 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians, led by prominent surgeon John Eastman, split from MCI to form their own
                    school, the Central College of Physicians and Surgeons, also known as Central Medical College and as
                    Eastman College. Eastman was said to have led the development of Central College because he was
                    dissatisfied that he had not been appointed to the MCI chair of surgery.10
                    Central College was always smaller than MCI, but it came to have a devoted following of well-known
                    physicians.
            By 1900, MCI represented more than thirty years of tradition. It had produced more 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians than any other medical school and enjoyed considerable local prestige. Among
                    its notable graduates was John Hurty (1891), who was to be the Indiana Health Commissioner for many
                    years and president of the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Association.11 Yet the school's development
                    in these early decades was marked by experimentation and even missteps in such vital areas as
                    administrative control, fiscal management, and curriculum development.
            None of the nineteenth-century Indiana schools had a clear or persisting university connection,
                    although IMC, breaking from its original goal of autonomy, was associated with Indiana University
                    during 1875 and 1876. The causes of the severance of this short-lived association are not entirely
                    clear. On May 19, 1876, the IMC faculty minutes noted that the college was considering separating
                    from Indiana University unless "a definite and permanent paying basis for the association
                    was agreed to," and an IU trustee announced the sep- 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., September 7, 1869, January 21, 1876, February 26, 1878.
                  
                     9 George H. Rawls, History of Black Physicians in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (n.p., 1984), 5; IMC Faculty Minutes, September 9, 1870.
                  
                     10 J. H. Brayton, "The Development of Medical Education in
                            Indiana" (M. A. thesis, Department of Education, Indiana University, 1929), 39.
                  
                     11 Thurman B. Rice, A Biography of John N. Hurty (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1946), 94. David Starr 
                                Jordan
                            , later president of Indiana University and then of 
                                Stanford
                             University, received an honorary M.D. degree from IMC in 1875. IMC Faculty
                            Minutes, February 23, 1875.
               
                     aration in June 1876.12 While official
                    Indiana University records for this period were destroyed in the science building fire of 1883, a
                    short note in the university catalogue for 1876 reported that President Lemuel Moss severed the
                    relationship because he was unable to establish satisfactory standards for the admission of students
                    to the Medical School.13
            
            A few months after its break with Indiana University, IMC attempted to associate with Asbury
                    University under an arrangement in which "IMC shall not be deemed to have surrendered any
                    corporate rights." Asbury officials found the terms unsatisfactory, and the attempt was
                        abandoned.14 Still, the medical school continued to explore possible
                    affiliation with a university. In 1896, under their new identity as MCI, the faculty joined with 
                        Butler
                     University, Indiana Dental College, and Indiana Law School to form the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Under that arrangement, which persisted until 1905, each institution maintained its
                    autonomy and control and ownership of its property.
            MCI's only revenue during this period derived from student fees, supplemented by the
                    contributions solicited by teaching physicians who "passed the hat." In September
                    1882, the faculty granted themselves a $100 dividend.15 Sixteen
                    months later they approved a second dividend, this time of $50 each.16 But in May 1890 MCI funds were insufficient to pay expenses until the next term started,
                    and no dividend was paid that year.17 The lesson seems to have been increasingly
                    clear: the proprietary schools, owned and financed by physician shareholders, did not reliably raise
                    sufficient funds to maintain a late-nineteenth-century medical school.18
            
            The actual content of medical education during this period passed through a similar process of
                    uncertain development. During the third quarter of the nineteenth century, most teaching in Indiana
                    and across the country was by lecture only. Lectures were often repeated in different contexts, so
                    that a given student might hear the same material from the same physicians in each of several
                    courses. The concept of graded courses, each building on an earlier one, had not yet arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The one exception to the lecture format was anatomy, which students learned through
                    access to skele- 
                  
                     12 IMC Faculty Minutes, May 19, June 22, 1876.
                  
                     13 Burton D. Myers, The History of Medical Education in
                                Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1956), 51-52.
                  
                     14 IMC Faculty Minutes, September 5, 1876, January 12, 1877.
                  
                     15 Faculty Minutes, January 10, 1884, p. 171, Box 4, Records of the
                            Faculty Meetings of the Medical College of Indiana, 1878 to 1890 (hereafter cited as MCI
                            Faculty Minutes), IUSM Records.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., September 22, 1882.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., May 23, 1890, p. 259.
                  
                     18 The precise extent to which financial pressures contributed to
                            MCI's eventual association with Purdue and Indiana universities is still uncertain.
                            One hopes that more specific records on the subject may yet be uncovered.
               
                     tons and partially dissected human cadavers, as well as from
                    lectures. IMC faculty minutes note on January 4, 1870, that $120 was allowed for
                    "three subjects" to be purchased from 
                        Chicago
                    . The demonstrator in anatomy was allowed $5 for each full-time student to
                    provide for supplies.19
            
            Until almost the end of the nineteenth century, Indiana government had no control over medical
                    education and, seemingly, no interest in it. Between 1825 and 1843, the state medical society had
                    been authorized to oversee medical education. But in 1843, all Indiana medical laws were repealed.
                    No licensing laws were reinstated until 1885, when county clerks were empowered to license
                        physicians.20 By that time, medicine was becoming sufficiently organized
                    that the need for regulation was obvious.
            Largely free of state oversight, MCI and other Indiana schools expected incoming students to be able
                    to read—little else. Few U.S. medical schools required more. Nearly half required only a
                    "common school" education. In fact, few universities viewed a medical school as
                    more than a trade school. The same lectures were presented to first- and second-year students.
                    Examinations were held only at the end of a course of study. Few students were dropped because of
                    academic deficiency. Advanced students were allowed to observe in physicians' offices and
                    hospitals. There was no postgraduate education, no residency; young physicians simply entered
                    practice, often with a more senior man as mentor. As 
                        Harvard
                     President Charles Wilson Eliot would note at the American Medical
                    Association's Fourth Conference on Medical Education in 1908, "50 years earlier
                    the 
                        Harvard
                     Medical School had no examination for admission and no standard of preliminary
                    education. Anybody could walk into it off the street and many did walk into it who could barely read
                    and write."21 The Medical College of Indiana in the 1880s was not
                    different from most North American medical schools, but it was clearly slower to change than some.
            The seeds of that change had been sown in 
                        Philadelphia
                     as early as 1876, when twenty-two medical college deans (among them, the dean of MCI)
                    met to form the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC). This association began a long
                    journey toward standard-setting and national accreditation of medical schools in both the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . Although the meeting was not everywhere approved, it was noticed: a blistering
                    editorial in the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         and 
                            Louisville
                         Medical Journal labeled the meeting a farce.22
                    
                  
                     19 IMC Faculty Minutes, January 4, 1870, August 27, 1878, July 2,
                            1880.
                  
                     20 Brayton, "Development of Medical Education in
                            Indiana," 68.
                  
                     21 Charles Wilson Eliot, "Response to Report on Fourth
                            Conference on Medical Education," American Medical Association, Bulletin, III (May 15, 1908), 262.
                  
                     22"Editorial," 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 and 
                                    Louisville
                                 Medical Journal, XXII (July 1876), 96-100.
               
                     Nevertheless, the association caught on, in Indiana and
                    elsewhere. By 1892, Central College and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     College of Medicine had joined AAMC, and the legislature passed the Indiana Medical
                    Lcensing Act of 1897, which made AAMC's standards legally binding in the state. By 1899,
                    the Indiana State Board of Medical Registration was requiring the AAMC standards for admission to
                    medical colleges and for graduation.
            The governor appointed a board to oversee the problem of who could practice medicine and, perhaps
                    more important, to decide which schools were eligible to produce physicians who could be licensed.
                    Applicants were subjected to a stringent licensing examination. Although there were challenges to
                    the constitutionality of the Licensing Act, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed its legality. No
                    single law has done more to improve health care in Indiana.23
            
            By 1899, MCI had made considerable progress. The college owned a four-story building with teaching
                    laboratories at the corner of Senate and Market streets in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .24 Its three hundred students were at least high school graduates,
                    and some were college graduates. By that time MCI, like its counterparts across the country,
                    expected its students to have a high school diploma or to pass an equivalency examination, developed
                    by the AAMC, which required knowledge of Latin, algebra, geometry, physics, chemistry, English
                    grammar, and American history. Medical courses progressed in difficulty, and advanced courses were
                    based on earlier courses. First course lectures were no longer repeated in advanced courses, and
                    students could be expelled for failing grades. The medical school curriculum was four years in
                    length and included structured clinical experiences. Taken together, the improvements of the 1890s
                    testified to the leadership of a few university presidents, the agitation of the American Medical
                    Association and the AAMC, and the growing attention of some state licensing boards.
            Still, all instruction, whether in chemistry, anatomy, or clinical subjects, was provided by busy
                    practitioners who received little or no payment for their efforts. When a patient called, the
                    teacher responded and left the classroom. If the teacher was up all night with a patient, his
                    preparation for the next day's class suffered. In 1880 the MCI faculty had voted a
                    $10 fine be imposed on faculty members 
                  
                     23 Cynthia Kahn, reference librarian, Association of American Medical
                            Colleges Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., letter to author, July 24, 2000; Indiana State Board of Medical
                            Registration and Licensure, Report, 1909 (Indiana State Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), 23-28.
                  
                     24 MCI had previously been located in the Gas Company Building at 
                                Maryland
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             streets. On November 3, 1894, the building burned for reasons never entirely
                            explained, though it is thought that the fire started in the anatomy laboratory of the
                            medical school. At that time, it was customary for dissection room floors to be covered with
                            sawdust. Students and instructors smoked cigars while working—better cigar smoke
                            than the odors of the nineteenth-century dissecting room. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 3, 1894.
               
                    
                    
                  MEDICAL COLLEGE OF INDIANA, 1902
                  Courtesy Ruth Lilly Medical Library, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     who missed classes.25 Subsequent records
                    note, however, that the fine was forgiven on many occasions.
            Indiana's physicians did work to integrate into their instruction and practice the
                    scientific advances being made in Europe, among them the link between germs and infection,
                    introduced in 
                        Scotland
                     by Joseph Lister in 1867. Lister's argument for antiseptic surgery was not
                    immediately accepted.26 By the 1880s, Indiana doctors nevertheless became sure
                    that clean surgery and obstetrics were far better than the older practices. On a Saturday in 1887,
                    two patients had leg amputations at the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hospital. One operation used the usually prepared equipment, unscrubbed hands and
                    street clothes; the other used boiled instruments and scrubbed hands, as well as Lister's
                    carbolic acid soaks and mists, which were not used previously in Indiana. The difference a week
                    later was evident to all. Antiseptic surgery began in 
                        Indianapolis
                     even though many local surgeons did not yet accept that "germs" made
                    the difference.27 It is remarkable that only twenty years had passed between
                    Lister's publication and acceptance of his practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , given the conservatism of physicians of the period and the limitations of
                    nineteenth-century communication. Still, some skeptics remained. In 1897, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel published an article by a Batesville doctor decrying the unproven
                    "theory" that germs caused disease.28 In fact, it was to be
                    called the "germ theory" of disease for decades, and the words
                    "bacteria" and "theory" remained linked in the minds of many for
                    years to come.
            A more unsavory but still vital problem facing nineteenth-century Indiana medical schools was how to
                    procure bodies for use in anatomy instruction. Following long-established practices in this country
                    and Europe, bodies were stolen from graves. Grave robbing to get bodies for dissection lasted until
                    1903 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The practice occasioned surprisingly little protest from the public, but it
                    nevertheless reflected poorly on the schools of medicine, which were entirely dependent upon more or
                    less organized groups of grave robbers—ghouls, as they were called. Public condemnation
                    of this practice grew gradually, particularly after the 1878 episode in which the body of John Scott
                    Harrison—former congressman, son of President William Henry Harrison and father of
                    President-to-be Benjamin Harrison—was found hanging in a ventilation shaft of the school
                    that 
                  
                     25 MCI Faculty Minutes, September 3, 1880, p. 129.
                  
                     26 Joseph Lister, "On the antiseptic principle in the
                            practice of surgery," Lancet, II (September 21, 1867), 353-56;
                                ibid., II (November 30, 1867), 668-69; Lister, "Letters in
                            response," ibid., II (August 28, 1869), 320; ibid., II (September 4, 1869), 354; ibid., I (March 13, 1869), 380.
                  
                     27 Brayton, "Development of Medical Education in
                            Indiana," 62-63; "Discussion of Meeting," Indiana
                                Medical Journal, VI (December 1887), 129-30.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, February 3, 1897.
               
                     was to become the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     Medical College.29 Between 1894 and 1899, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel published several reports of grave robbing each year. In 1902, there were
                    twelve, while in 1903 the Sentinel published grave robbing stories almost daily.
                    With the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools as a group likely needing at least 80 to 120 bodies each year by 1900, an
                    organized procurement system evolved. Newspaper repork in 1902 described Ween empty graves in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and many in suburban graveyards, some of which were said to be virtually empty. Body
                    snatching was done efficiently and skillfully. Robbers made a small hole in the fresh grave, broke
                    into the coffin at the head end, and extracted the body. The leader of the ring of grave robbers,
                    Rufus Cantrell, testified later that he and his associates knew the condition of bodies before they
                    were buried and marked graves to indicate their suitability or unsuitability for sale.30 Some bodies were never buried. Instead, mourners saw weighted coffins lowered into the
                    ground while Cantrell peddled the bodies elsewhere for a price of between five and thirty dollars
                    each (depending on their condition), transporting some for use in other midwestern cities.
            During this period, Goethe Link, who became a prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     surgeon, was in charge of the anatomy laboratory at Central College. Years later, he
                    described Cantrell as the most dangerous man he had ever met. Link wrote that he had once turned
                    down a body because it was still warm, and he feared that Cantrell might have murdered its original
                        owner.31
            
            In 1902 the grave-robbing scandal finally attracted the notice of the judicial system. Nineteen
                    people were arrested, including five physicians, and twenty-five indictments were produced. Dr.
                    Joseph Alexander of Central College was brought to trial, but when the jury was unable to come to a
                    verdict, the case was finally dropped.32 The chief witness against Alexander was
                    Cantrell, who was sometimes thought to be insane; Alexander's own health problems produced
                    considerable sympathy. The physicians of the community displayed frequent lapses of memory as they
                    were testifying: Dr. John Barnhill, developer of an anatomy course still used almost one hundred
                    years later, could not remember what Alexander's duties were or how bodies were obtained.
                    Although Alexander was acquitted, Cantrell and two of his associates were sent to prison.33
            
            
               
                  29 Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison: Hoosier
                        Statesman (8 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1956), II, 144-57.
               
                  30
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, April 10, 1903, October 9, November 19, 1902.
               
                  31 Goethe Link, "A Bit of Medical History," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, III (December 1977), 67-71.
               
                  32
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, October 26, 1902, February 16, 1903.
               
                  33 The resolution of the cadaver issue was important to the development of
                        Indiana University's School of Medicine. In his November 6, 1903, report to the
                        university trustees, President Bryan noted that the development of the medical department would
                        require a legal means of procuring cadavers, and this was accomplished by passage of the Indiana
                        Anatomical Act. William Lowe Bryan to trustees, November 6, 1903, November 14, 1904,
                        President's Report (Indiana University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        ).
            
            
            
               CENTRAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, c. 1902
               Courtesy Ruth Lilly Medical Library, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            
               HEADLINE IN INDIANAPOLIS NEWS, DECEMBER 4, 1902
            
            
            In response to these financial difficulties, rapid advances in science, increased regulation, and
                    scandal, the Indiana medical schools continued to seek alternative means for their governance and
                    financing. It was perhaps inevitable that they again considered union with a state university. In
                    1901 Dr. Joe Eastman of Central Medical College had written a letter to be forwarded to President
                    Joseph Swain of Indiana University to propose a union of Central with IU. Trustee James W. Fesler
                    later advised Swain that nothing be done unless MCI also joined.34
            
            Two years later, when William Lowe Bryan succeeded Swain as president, the idea of a university-based
                    medical school struck a sympathetic chord. Bryan, who sought to transform a small college in a small
                    town into a modern and broad-based university, saw a modern medical school as an important part of
                    his plan. In his April 3, 1905, report to the trustees, Bryan wrote: 
                        The University has expanded too much in the liberal arts and sciences in contrast to other
                            universities—too little in professional fields. In my opinion, the
                            University's future depends mainly on a successful change in this situation. The
                            people will make a great university only upon the condition that the university does many
                            kinds of important things that the people want done.35
                  
                    
            
            By the time that Bryan wrote, he could already report success in one of those "important
                    things": the trustees had authorized the creation of a new medical department in 1903.36 Carefully and without additional funding, Bryan began to assemble the
                    resources to make the department a success. Some IU faculty members were transferred to the new
                    program, while Burton D. Myers, an anatomist from the Johns Hopkins University medical school, was
                    persuaded to move to 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1903 to oversee it.
            Bryan probably did not anticipate the problems he would encounter in making his bold move. Yet, as
                    historian Thomas Clark points out,
            
                    [A]t no time in its whole history did Indiana University come nearer the brink of political
                        chaos, if not actual self-destruction of the University itself, than when it began the serious
                        business of organizing a medical school. In this adventure, it found itself in a damaging public
                        rivalry with Purdue University and a group of willful doctors in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .37
               
                
            Problems began the same year the 
                        Bloomington
                     program was established, when MCI Dean Henry Jameson (the nephew of Patrick Henry
                    Jameson) pushed to merge MCI with IU while keeping it in 
                  
                     34 Joe Eastman to Joseph Swain, October 17, 1900, Box 1, folder 5,
                            Office of the Dean Records, IUSM Records; James W. Fesler to Joseph Swain, June 15, 1901,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     35 Bryan to Board of Trustees, April 3, 1905, Volume III,
                            President's Report.
                  
                     36 Trustee Minutes, March 27, 1903, bound typescript, Indiana
                            University (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     37 Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern
                                Pioneer (4 vols., Bloomingbn, 1973), II, 65.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA SENTINEL, APRIL 10, 1903
               
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     and under the control of physicians. His proposal required IU to dismantle its 
                        Bloomington
                     program and leave the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school under the direction of a board of physicians rather than integrating medical
                    education with the rest of the university under the control of the president and trustees. Bryan,
                    supported by his trustees, rejected the terms. He argued that state maintenance and control were
                    inseparable and that there should be no duplication in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of courses offered in 
                        Bloomington
                    .38 Jameson believed he could obtain a better deal from Purdue
                    University and did so in May 1905. Consequently, the Medical College of Indiana, Central Medical
                    College, and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     College of Medicine all joined with Pur- 
                  
                     38 William Lowe Bryan to Henry Jameson, May 25, 1904, Box 1, folder 5,
                            Office of the Dean Records, IUSM Records.
               
                     due University in September 1905 to form the Indiana Medical
                        College.39 This union came as a great surprise to Indiana University and led
                    to major disruptions of intercollegiate relationships. In June 1906 Purdue severed athletic
                    relations with IU, including the cancellation of football matches (which seemed at the time far more
                    important than basketball games).40 Purdue went on to grant medical degrees in
                    1906 and 1907, the only years in its history that it did so.
            The contest was, however, far from over. In the summer of 1906, medical education at Purdue was
                    weakened when some former Central College physicians left their new home institution to form yet
                    another school, the State College of Physicians, headed by Dean Allison Maxwell.41 Some may have left the Purdue faculty, as they previously had left Indiana Medical College,
                    simply for greater independence; it is more likely that they wished to produce a closer union with
                    Indiana University.
            The issue of Purdue's and IU's involvement was overshadowed by the legal question
                    of whether either university had the authority to conduct a medical program outside its home county.
                    The trustees of IU had commissioned a legal opinion by W. H. H. Miller, who reported on October 31,
                    1905, that neither school was entitled to such power except on the "grounds of the
                        University."42 The 1907 session of the General Assembly
                    nevertheless heard separate proposals from both Purdue and Indiana to authorize each to create a
                    medical school in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Both bills failed after bitter statewide conflict, so neither was given the
                    authorization.
            Finally, in March 1908, Purdue President Winthrop E. Stone proposed to the university trustees that
                    Purdue leave medical education to Indiana University because it was not central to the Purdue
                    mission and because the problem was so disruptive.43 A week later, Indiana
                    Medical College and State College of Physicians affiliated with Indiana University.
            Maxwell became the first dean of Indiana University School of Medicine. Well-known and widely
                    respected, he was the ideal choice to lead the development of Indiana University's 
                        Indianapolis
                    -based medical school. Both his father and grandfather had been IU trustees; the latter
                    was also a signer of the original Indiana constitution. The younger Maxwell took a master's
                    degree in classical languages before 
                  
                     39 Purdue University, Thirty-second Annual
                                Report…, Year Ending June 30, 1906 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906), 45-51. The new Indiana Medical College should not be confused with the
                            institution of the same name that functioned from 1869 to 1876.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 3, 1906.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 28, September 5, 1906; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 7, 1906.
                  
                     42 W. H. H. Miller to trustees, October 31, 1905, Box 7, IUSM Records.
                  
                     43 Winthrop Stone to Trustees, March 26, 1908, Winthrop Stone Papers
                            (Purdue University Archives, 
                                West Lafayette
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  ALLISON MAXWELL, C. 1880
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                attending medical school in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he stayed on for an extra year of clinical experience before such training was
                    required or even fashionable. In 1876 he entered practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with Theophilus Parvin, who later became professor of obstetrics at Jefferson Medical
                    College in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Maxwell had served as 
                        Marion County
                     coroner from 1879 to 1883, as a member of the city Board of Health, and as president of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     School Board. In 1887 he had joined the faculty of Central College of Physicians and
                    Surgeons. He was also a 
                        Bloomington
                     native, known and trusted there.44
            
            While Maxwell embraced the union between medical education and the university, Jameson was bitterly
                    disappointed at the fate of his medical school. In May 1908, he declined President 
                  
                     44 Florence Amelia Wilson 
                                Houston
                            
                            et al., Maxwell History and Genealogy (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 167-69.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DISSECTING ROOM IN SCIENCE HALL (NOW
                            LINDLEY HALL) ON THE BLOOMINGTON CAMPUS, 1906
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                    
                    
                  HENRY JAMESON
                  Reproduced from Biography of Eminent Physicians and Surgeons,
                            ed. by R. French Stone (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1894).
                Bryan's offer that he present the medical students for graduation at the IU
                    commencement in 
                        Bloomington
                     that spring, responding that to do so would be contrary to the aims of his
                    life's work. With the same letter, he resigned his new appointment to the university
                        faculty.45 Jameson had served as dean of the Medical College of Indiana in
                    its various guises after 1898 and was associated with the college throughout his professional life.
                    He was committed to its independence.
            Jameson was not the only person to respond to the change with anger or disappointment. The compromise
                    that had permitted the merger of Indiana Medical College and State College of Physicians with
                    Indiana University had traded the university's acceptance of the medical school's 
                        Indianapolis
                     site for an agreement that the first year's instruction would take place in 
                        Bloomington
                    . In 1911 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians John Barnhill and William Niles Wishard wrote to President Bryan, reminding
                    him that the compromise was to be 
                  
                     45 Henry Jameson to William Lowe Bryan, May 18, 1908, Box 1, Folder
                            15, Office of the Dean Records, IUSM Records.
               
                     temporary.46 Yet it remained in effect
                    until 1958. (First- and second-year medical education returned to the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus in the 1970s.)
            The issues that separated Jameson and Bryan were not personal; they reflected different visions of
                    medical education and its relationship to broader education. The Bryan-Jameson dispute echoes the
                    rift that had opened some fifty years earlier, between 
                        Harvard
                     President Eliot and faculty members such as Oliver Wendell Holmes and Jacob Bigelow,
                    over the proper control of the medical school within the university. Those differences had also been
                    resolved by the forceful direct action of the university president.47
            
            In 1910 Abraham Flexner, writing in his influential report on American medical education, noted that
                    Indiana had already come far in raising standards and exercising oversight of the profession: 
                        The situation in the state is, thanks to the intelligent attitude of the University,
                            distinctly hopeful, though it will take time to work it out fully. The University has just
                            secured complete control of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             school. The State Board of Medical Examiners has already come to its help by
                            making the two-year college standard, in force at the University in 1910, the legal minimum
                            for practice in the state. This places medical education in Indiana, as it already is in 
                                Minnesota
                            , in the hands of the University.
                     "Indiana," Flexner concluded, "will be one of the few states
                    that has successfully solved the problem of medical education."48
            
            The achievement that Flexner noted was the product of a long struggle to establish and define medical
                    education in Indiana. Certainly it was assisted by particular individuals, notably Allison Maxwell,
                    who prepared the way by leading the 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians to affiliate with the university. But it was William Lowe Bryan who made
                    change happen his way; and he did it before the lever of the Flexner report began to have its effect
                    on educational reforms across the rest of the country. Bryan got the medical school he believed
                    essential to the mission of the university at a time when few other universities had done so. Beyond
                    the particular influence of such leaders as Maxwell and Bryan, the Indiana story illustrates the
                    power of the current of reform that was molding the opinions of the public, physicians, and
                    educators, all striving for improved medical care consistent with advances in medical science.
            The importance of the earlier schools to this story of reform and improvement should not be
                    forgotten. As Myers wrote of MCI in 1956:
            
               
                  46 John Barnhill and William Nile Wishard to Bryan, April 15, 1911, Box 7,
                            ibid.
               
               
                  47 Kenneth M. Ludmerer, Learning to Heal (
                            New York
                        , 1985), 49.
               
                  48 Abraham Flexner, Medical Education in the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Canada
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1910), 220-22. Flexner's optimistic wording actually reflected the
                        influence of IU medical school official Burton D. Myers, who had urged him to deal lightly with
                        those areas in which IU still stood to improve. Burton D. Myers to Abraham Flexner, February 17,
                        1910, Flexner to Myers, February 19, 1910, Abraham Flexner Papers, Indiana File (Manuscript
                        Archives, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
            
            
            
                    It was an institution of which any state might have been proud. It was the product of the
                        self-sacrifice and intellect of its faculty, devoted to the improvement of medical education.
                        During 1878-1905, the MCI faculty successfully struggled to keep abreast of rapidly expanding
                        medical education—became members of the Association of American Medical Colleges.
                        Entrance requirements and curriculum were kept in line with standards of that organization.49
               
                
            The traditions and dedication of 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians, difficult though he found them, formed the clinical basis of President
                    Bryan's medical school. Without their sustained support and dedication, the new school
                    could not have survived the period when it still relied on a volunteer faculty for clinical
                    teaching, a period lasting through most of the twentieth century. It is to Bryan's credit,
                    as well as to Maxwell's and their early successors', that they managed the
                    challenge of bringing the earlier proprietary medical school model in line with the demands of the
                    modern university. To their further credit, they did so without provoking the enduring hostility
                    that might have obscured the two traditions' mutual vision of better medical education and
                    improved health care for Indianans.
            
               
                  49 Myers, History of Medical Education in Indiana,
                    64.
            
         
         
         
            The War against German-American Culture: The Removal of German-Language Instruction from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Schools, 1917-1919
            Paul J. Ramsey*
            
            Traditionally, war has been a "religious experience" for this nation; times of
                    conflict have drawn from the American public a level of commitment to the cause that has at times
                    bordered on the fanatical. Such zealotry was certainly apparent during World War I.1 The 
                        United States
                     declaration of war on 
                        Germany
                     in April 1917 unleashed an era of what might be termed
                    "superpatriotism," which led to the opening of a domestic theater of war against
                    German-American culture.2 This reaction, described by Carl Wittke as "a
                    violent, hysterical, concerted movement to eradicate everything German from American
                        civilization,"3 manifested itself most clearly in a crusade against
                    the German language, since it was through language that German-Americans in Indiana and elsewhere
                    maintained part of their cultural heritage and "their different philosophy of
                        life."4 Through this "patriotic" war against
                    German-American culture, nativists were able to halt the teaching of the German language in many
                    schools throughout the country.
            Although the superpatriots' cultural warfare was directed at a variety of institutions and
                    organizations, it made sense that one of the primary institutions targeted for battle was the public
                    school. Some Americans believed that public schools were quickly becoming instruments of imperial 
                        Germany
                    ; Gustavus Ohlinger, a leading American opponent of German culture, warned that
                    German-language schooling was part of a policy of Kulturpolitik by which 
                        Germany
                     had for years worked to pacify the world's citizens and to make them obedient
                    to the Vaterland. This conspiracy in education was 
                  
                     * Paul J. Ramsey is a graduate student and associate
                            instructor in the Indiana University School of Education. He would like to thank B. Edward
                            McClellan, Andrea Walton, and Stephanie Ramsey for reading early drafts of this paper. The
                            author would also like to thank the anonymous reviewers and the editors of the Indiana Magazine of History for their insights and criticisms.
                  
                     1 Erik Kirschbaum, The Eradication of German Culture in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                : 1917–1918 (Stuttgart, 
                                Germany
                            , 1986), 45-46.
                  
                     2 Frederick C. Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty: German-Americans
                                and World War I (
                                DeKalb
                            , Ill., 1974), 225-59.
                  
                     3 Carl Wittke, German-Americans and the World War
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1936), 163.
                  
                     4 George Theodore Probst, The Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1840–1918 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1989), 140.
               
                    
                    
                  U.S. ARMY RECRUITING POSTER BY H.R. HOPPS, C. 1917
                  Reproduced from Persuasive Images: Posters of War and Revolution
                                from the Hoover Institution Archives (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1992)
               
                     far-reaching, according to Ohlinger and other like-minded
                    nativists, such as the western novelist Owen Wister, who warned of the peril of
                    "Prussianized" education.5 American scholars who had studied
                    in 
                        Germany
                     were said to be supporters of that country's policy, and German-born
                    professors, some hinted, were using their positions to spread pro-German propaganda. More
                    importantly, imperial 
                        Germany
                     had loyal supporters in the "Prussianized" German Americans. These
                    were the Germans who had emigrated not seeking religious or political freedom but only economic
                    betterment; politically, nativists believed, they remained loyal to 
                        Germany
                    .6 These immigrants, Ohlinger suggested, worked through such
                    organizations as the German-American Alliance—the leading German-American organization in
                    the 
                        United States
                    —to promote German-language instruction and pro-German textbooks in public
                    schools so that the student's mind would become "so thoroughly saturated with
                    ideas favorable to 
                        Germany
                     that it [would be] ready to react to the crudest form of propaganda." If
                    American education became imbued with German culture, Ohlinger feared, "there succumbs the
                        nation."7
            
            Schooling was significant in the cultural war for another reason as well. The school system in 
                        Germany
                     was believed by some, notably American educators and school officials, to have been a
                    direct cause of the war; that is, the German school had made the Great War possible.8 Mary C. C. Bradford, president of the National Education Association (NEA), maintained in
                    1917 that "the teachings of the German schools … led just as inevitably to the
                    present crisis as we know that sunrise follows sunset and night follows day." Central to
                    the German school, as interpreted by American educators, was its emphasis on Nietzsche and his
                    "cruel philosophy." Thomas H. Briggs, professor of education at Teachers College, 
                        Columbia
                     University, told the members of the Indiana State Teachers Association (ISTA) in 1917
                    that the war had been "inevitable" because the German school inculcated militarism
                    in its students. According to Briggs, German students repeatedly had to answer "What
                    country is our natural enemy?" with "
                        France
                    ," and "What must we do to the natural enemy of our country?"
                    with "Destroy it."9 Although the German school had in part
                    caused the war, the American school could do its part by attacking any lingering expressions of
                    German culture among immigrants. Following the advice of the World War I slogan, 
                  
                     5 Oven Wister, "Forward," in Their True
                                Faith and Allegiance, Gustavus Ohlinger (
                                New York
                            , 1916), xii; Ohlinger, The German Conspiracy in American
                            Education (
                                New York
                            , [1919?]), 11.
                  
                     6 Ohlinger, 
                        
                                    Germany
                                 Conspiracy, 10-17, 29-32, 99-100; Wister, "Forward,"
                            viii-x; Ohlinger, Their True Faith, 25-26, 32-34, 42.
                  
                     7 Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 11, 83; Ohlinger, Their True Faith, 37-38.
                  
                     8 Indiana State Teachers Association, Proceedings and
                                Papers, 1917, 43-44, 99-100, 286 (hereafter cited as ISTA, Proceedings).
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 42-43, 99-100, 287-88.
               
                     "If you can't fight over there, fight over
                    here," an army of educators, officials, politicians, and concerned citizens fought for what
                    Indiana University's James Woodburn described as a "united
                    nation—with one people, one
                    government… one allegiance, and, let us not be afraid to say, one language."10
            
            This essay examines the campaign to eliminate German-language instruction from Indiana's,
                    and especially 
                        Indianapolis
                    's, schools. Before 1917, German-Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a thriving community and played an important role in the city's
                    development, but that role was attacked and undermined after the 
                        United States
                     entered the war. Superpatriotism, expressed by hysterical hatred of the German enemy,
                    swept across the country during the war era, creating a demand for the removal of German-language
                    instruction from the schools. That demand was at last met, in Indiana, by passage of the McCray Act
                    in 1919.
            In 1917 German-Americans were a sizable and visible segment of the Indiana population. The 1910
                    census reported that Indiana's population of 2,700,876 included more than a half-million
                    people of "foreign white stock," i.e., either they or at least one of their
                    parents had been born in a foreign country.11 More than half of this group in
                    Indiana listed German ancestry, while another 3.5 percent claimed Austrian heritage. In 1915, a
                    leading German-American Hoosier, William A. Fritsch, estimated that more than half of
                    Indiana's residents were of Teutonic lineage. The state's capital had a similarly
                    large Germanic population. In 1910, statistics for 
                        Indianapolis
                     resembled those for the state as a whole: nearly half of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's citizens of "foreign birth or foreign parentage" had
                    origins in 
                        Germany
                     with another 2.8 percent having Austrian ancestry; taken together, Americans of German
                    and Austrian parentage comprised some 30,938 of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's 233,650 residents. The census reports did not reach beyond the second
                    generation, but historian George Theodore Probst has estimated that in 1890 perhaps a third of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's residents were of German ancestry.12 One source reported
                    that the typical German immigrant in the city was "Americanized in a political and economic
                    sense" rather quickly but "maintained his customs and used his mother
                    tongue," although the second generation was less likely to do so.13
            
            
               
                  10 Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture, 63; ISTA,
                            Proceedings, 1917, 350.
               
                  11 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census, 1910:
                        Vol. II, Population, 518, 543.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., 519, 543, 546; Frederick 
                            Franklin
                         Schrader, Handbook: Political, Statistical and Sociological for German
                            Americans… (
                            New York
                        , 1916–1917), 98; Albert Bernhardt Faust, The German Element
                            in the 
                                United States
                             with Special Reference to Its Political, Moral, Social, and Educational
                            Influences (2 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1909), I, 576-17, 582; Probst, Germans in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , 90-91; William A. Fritsch, German Settlers and German
                            Settlements in Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., 1915), 4.
               
                  13
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Turnverein: Seventy-fifth Anniversary, 1851–1926 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?], [1926?]), 21.
            
            
            
               "OVER THERE—OVER HERE!"
               
                  
                            New York
                        
                        Evening Post, 1918, as reproduced in Literary Digest, LVII
                        (April 20, 1918), 7.
            
            German-Americans thrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     before the war. They maintained numerous institutions that supported and energized
                    their culture, which many believed was greater than the dominant American culture. German-Americans
                    established German churches, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Maennerchor (Men's Chorus), and a variety of other clubs and societies,
                    including the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Turnverein, a social and athletic club. 
                        Indianapolis
                     also housed a chapter of the German-American Alliance. Just before the war, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     man, Joseph Keller, served as president of the state chapter and first vice president
                    of the national organization.14
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     was also the home of several of Indiana's German-language newspapers,
                    including the prominent Telegraph und Tribüne, which ran six evenings a
                    week with a circulation of 10,825 in 1915. In the same year, the newspaper's Sunday
                    edition, Spottvogel, claimed a circulation of 11,979.15 In
                        
                  
                     14 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 126-34, 140; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Turnverein, 5; Schrader, Handbook for German
                            Americans, 52; Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 59-60.
                  
                     15 James P. Ziegler, The German-language Press in
                                Indiana: A Bibliography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1994), 15-19.
               
                     addition to their own organizations, residents of Germanic
                    heritage played key roles in local civic institutions as well. Shortly after the turn of the
                    twentieth century, for instance, German-Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     held the offices of mayor, chief of police, and sheriff.16
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     residents of German descent were also involved in another important institution: the
                    school. Clearly, German-Americans exercised a great deal of control over German parochial schools,
                    but they also held key positions in 
                        Indianapolis
                    's public schools, among which were seats on the school board. Beginning in the
                    1860s, for instance, Clemens Vonnegut sat on the Board of School Commissioners for nearly thirty
                    years, and Keller became the president of the board before World War I. German-Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were also heavily involved with manual training and physical education in the public
                    schools. Frances Mueller, for example, became the first supervisor of physical education for 
                        Indianapolis
                    's public schools, and, beginning in the 1890s, Charles E. Emmerich served as
                    principal of the new Manual Training High School. Moreover, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Schools (IPS) maintained an extensive German-language program before World War
                    I, and the administrators who oversaw the program were also German-Americans. Emmerich was
                    IPS'S supervisor of German from 1873 until the early 1890s. Another German-American, Robert
                    Nix, served in that role for sixteen years, until 1910, when Peter Scherer took over the
                    position—the title was upgraded to director of modern languages in 1915—and
                    held it until it was terminated in 1918.17
            
            It was through the public school, along with the family, parochial schools, and the churches, that
                    the German language was preserved for the generations of German-Americans with no firsthand
                    knowledge of 
                        Germany
                     and its language. Beginning in 1869 German-language instruction was required by law to
                    be offered in many of Indiana's public schools. Indiana's Germans hoped the law
                    would attract more immigrants to the state.18 The law stated that
                    "whenever the parents or guardians of twenty-five or more children in attendance at any
                    school of a township, town or city, shall so demand, it shall be the duty of the School Trustee or
                    Trustees of said township, 
                  
                     16 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 182-183.
                  
                     17
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Turnverein, 17-20; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Schools, Annual Report, 1908–1909, 4
                            (hereafter cited as IPS, Annual Report); Murray A. Dalman, "The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Schools: A Brief History," in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Public Schools, 1853–1953 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1953), 93-96; Frances H. Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction in the Public Schools of 
                                Indianapolis
                             1869–1919," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            L (June, September, December 1954), 119, 257, 357-58, 364-65, 368-69, 374-78; IPS, Annual Report, 1916, 2; Frederick K. Gale, A Biographical
                                Study of Persons for Whom 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Schools Are Named (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), see under "Clemens Vonnegut"; Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 101, 140; Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 59-60.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, February 26, 1919; Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 124-25.
               
                    
                    
                  ROBERT NIX
                  Reprcduced from Poems, Vol. I, 2 vols. (Spokane, Wa., 1930),
                            frontispiece
                town or city, to procure efficient teachers, and introduce the German language, as a
                    branch of study, into such schools; and the tuition in said schools shall be without
                        charge."19 IPS began to experiment with German-language instruction
                    within the city's heavily German wards even before this legislation had been formally
                    proposed, but after the bill became a law the number of elementary schools offering the language
                    steadily grew. By 1877, there were already ten schools offering German; six years later, sixteen
                    schools provided German-language instruction to more than 2,400 students. 
                        Indianapolis
                    's high school had been teaching German since 1868. In 1907, the practice was
                    fur- 
                  
                     19 Indiana, Superintendent of Public Instruction, School
                                Laws of Indiana, (1877) 48-49.
               
                     ther encouraged by passage of a state law requiring either
                    Latin or German to be offered to high-school students for foreign-language study.20
            
            German-language instruction was by no means unique to Indiana. In 1839 
                        Ohio
                     had become the first midwestern state to provide for the teaching of German. 
                        Kansas
                     enacted its German school law in 1867. In states without foreign-language laws, such as 
                        Missouri
                    , some heavily German localities introduced German-language instruction into the public
                    schools; without the backing of legislation, however, these bilingual programs often did not survive
                    into the twentieth century. Nor was German instruction confined to the Midwest. 
                        Baltimore
                    's public elementary schools offered German, as did schools in towns as diverse
                    as New Braunfels, 
                        Texas
                    , and Carlstadt, 
                        New Jersey
                    . In all, more than two hundred public elementary schools in the 
                        United States
                     offered German in 1900. In 1917, the U. S. Bureau of Education reported that
                    foreign-language instruction in elementary schools was offered in nineteen of the American cities it
                    surveyed, sixteen of which specifically included German in the curriculum.21
            
            The IPS Annual Reports give some indication of the prominent role German-language
                    instruction played in 
                        Indianapolis
                    's public schools before World War I. During the 1908–1909 school
                    year, for instance, German was offered in the city's two high schools as well as in
                    thirty-eight of its "district" (elementary) schools. At the elementary and
                    secondary levels, fifty teachers conducted 451 classes in German-language instruction, which, in the
                    district schools, translated into daily half-hour lessons.22 The district
                    schools offered a seven-year German program beginning in the second grade, while 
                  
                     20 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 122-37, 252, 261, 363; IPS, Annual Report, 1883,
                            28; ibid., 1908–1909, 52-53.
                  
                     21 Heinz Kloss, "German-American Language Maintenance
                            Efforts," in Language Loyalty in the 
                                    United States
                                : The Maintenance and Perpetuation of Non-English Mother Tongues by American
                                Ethnic and Religious Groups, Joshua Fishman (
                                London
                            , U.K., 1966), 233-35; La Vern J. Rippley, The German
                            Americans (
                                Boston
                            , 1976), 120-22; L. Viereck, "German Instruction in American
                            Schools," in U.S., Commissioner of Education, Report, 1900-1901
                            (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1902), I, 639-40; "Foreign Languages in the Elementary
                            School," School and Society, VI, No. 151 (1917), 583; Frederick
                            C. Luebke, "Legal Restrictions on Foreign Languages in the Great Plains States,
                            1917-1923," in Germans in the New World: Essays in the History of
                                Immigration, ed. Luebke, (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1990), 36.
                  
                     22 In the 1880s and 1890s, IPS students studying German in the
                            upper-elementary grades received language instruction that was similar to the
                            "two-way" bilingual education method sometimes used today. That is, in the
                            "German annexes" mixed classes of both native-English and native-German
                            speakers were taught half of the day's subjects—including U.S.
                            history—in German and the other half in English, enabling the two groups of
                            students to gain proficiency in both languages. The German annexes did not continue into the
                            twentieth century, but when nativists began to call for the elimination of German
                            instruction in 1917, they suggested that the German language was used to sing patriotic
                            songs such as "The Star Spangled Banner," which could suggest that some
                            classes in 
                                Indianapolis
                             used German as the language of instruction for nonforeign-language lessons. See
                            IPS, Annual Report, 1883, 29-31; Ellis, "Historical Account of
                            German Instruction," 258-61, 264, 357, 372.
               
                     the high schools offered both an advanced course of study, for
                    those who had completed the district program, and a beginning German program for those who had no
                    previous instruction. The second, third, and fourth grades enrolled the largest number of students,
                    but the combined district and secondary programs offered German instruction to nearly 7,500 of the
                    city's 28,342 white students. Most of those enrolled in German programs were neither
                    immigrants nor first-generation German-Americans; no mention is made of second- or third-generation
                    German students.23
            
            Besides teaching the German language to large numbers of students, IPS, during the
                    1908–1909 school year, also sought to acquaint students "with 
                        Germany
                    , with the nature and customs of the people, and with 
                        Germany
                    's culture and intellectual life." To achieve that end, teachers in
                    the fifth, sixth, and seventh grades taught "German fairy tales and legends"; IPS
                    teachers were even offered advanced study in German legends through the school system. High school
                    students in both the beginning and advanced programs learned about German culture through the works
                    of Friedrich von Schiller and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, along with other classic and contemporary
                    examples of German literature.24
            
            In the period preceding America's entry into the First World War, the mission of the IPS
                    German program was to give students not only language instruction but also a sense of Kultur. German was used as the language of instruction in order to develop
                    students' Sprachgefuehl or understanding of spoken German, rather than
                    their translation skills. During these years the German program continued to grow; by 1916,
                    sixty-five instrudors (six of whom were substitutes) taught more than 560 German classes containing
                    nearly ten thousand elementary and secondary students.25 A year later the
                    U.S.'s entry into the war introduced a perverse form of patriotism that first threatened
                    and ultimately destroyed German-language instruction throughout the city and state.
            While 
                        Indianapolis
                    's large German-American community had succeeded in sustaining a thriving
                    culture before the war, conflict with other elements of the community was not an entirely new
                    phenomenon. Early prohibition agitation had provided one source of tension.26
                    The German-language education program itself had aroused resentment as early as the 1880s and 1890s,
                    decades marked by nativist campaigns against immigrant education around the country.27 In the mid-1880s, much of the opposition to German instruction in 
                  
                     23
                            IPS, Annual Report, 1908–1909, 28-30, 151-57.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 78-79, 128, 155-57.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 153-55; ibid., 1916, 92, 130-33; Ellis,
                            "Historical Account of German Instruction," 369-71.
                  
                     26 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 143.
                  
                     27 For a detailed look at the nativist-led school attacks see Lloyd P.
                            Jorgenson, The State and the Non-Public School, 1825–1925 (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1987).
               
                     the public schools was disguised as fiscal concern; near the
                    end of the decade, the attacks became serious. In 1890 the school board voted to end the German
                    program. The surprise vote was taken when two board members who were supporters of German-language
                    instruction were absent. However, the city's German-language press opposed the decision,
                    and German-Americans organized and took the issue to court. The legality of the German program in
                    the public schools was affirmed by the Indiana Supreme Court in 1891.28
            
            Some scholars have argued that these historic areas of conflict are key to understanding the war
                    against German-American culture that began in 1917. Historian Frederick C. Luebke, warning against a
                    search for simple causes, writes that the war 
                        converted latent tensions into manifest hostility. For this reason, little understanding is
                            gained by identifying scapegoats, either German-American extremists, who allegedly provoked
                            the government to repressive measures, or superpatriots, who by their immoderate rhetoric
                            may have incited Americans to riot.29
                  
                     But Luebke's statement underestimates both the power of the
                    super-patriots' harangues and the appeal of patriotism itself. Anti-German rhetoric
                    resonated in the American mind during the war era and proved to be quite persuasive. For example,
                    one of historian Erik Kirschbaum's sources noted that "'any audience
                    … will cheer an attack on the German language more wildly than any other phase of a
                    patriotic address.'" In addition to anti-German rhetoric, patriotism itself
                    captured the minds of many Americans, particularly the young. Another Kirschbaum source remarked
                    that college students who in the past had shown passion only for football now
                    "'gave themselves wholeheartedly to the new master … they patrolled the
                    armory, balking imagined plots of enemy spies.'"30
            
            Although historic areas of conflict undeniably existed between German-Americans and the larger
                    American society, the dominant fanatical patriotism and nativism of the war years manifested
                    themselves on a scale hitherto unseen. These wartime emotions stemmed more from recent
                    events—the sinking of the Lusitania, the exaggerated war reports hm the
                    British news monopoly, the Zimmermann telegram, and the alarming reports of Franz von
                    Papen's encouragement of sabotage—than they did from any previous tension.31 As a postwar writer noted of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's German-Americans, only "a few years before these very
                    ‘enemies’ had been praised highly for their accomplishments and contributions
                    to the cultural life of the city."32
            
            
               
                  28 Ellis, "Historical Account of German Instruction,"
                        262-76.
               
                  29 Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty, xiii.
               
                  30 Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture, 94, 110.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., 49-65.
               
                  32
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Turnverein, 21.
            
            
            As the 
                        United States
                     entered the war against 
                        Germany
                     and its allies, professional conferences and journals of educators and school officials
                    in Indiana began to reflect the increasingly reactionary mood of American society. Unsurprisingly,
                    patriotic sentiment dominated the 1917 annual meeting of the ISTA. The NEA's Bradford noted
                    the need to "keep alive in our communities and in our schools the old ideals of American
                    life and patriotism." Indiana Senator James E. Watson told the audience that "you
                    school teachers cannot impress these ideals of the American Republic, liberty, equality and
                    fraternity too strongly upon the heart and conscience of the coming generation until they are filled
                    with the holy doctrine."33
            
            The senator's idea of fraternity did not seem to include the German-Americans. Watson was
                    interrupted with applause when he stated that "there are no real German-Americans today;
                    they all ought to be Americans." His patriotism was clear, but as Briggs noted in a talk
                    otherwise marked by its anti-German sentiment, "patriotism often involves passion and hate
                    and blinds us to reason, [and] may be used to advance the very ideals that we have entered the war
                    to defeat."34
            
            Despite Briggs's caution, a detectable and growing paranoia informed the patriotism of
                    Indiana educators. On November 1, 1917, Professor Woodburn told the history section of the ISTA that
                    "[t]he German rulers and their hired agents in this country … have deliberately
                    planned the invasion and partition of our territory …. [and] have filled our lands with
                        spies."35 In 1919, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News assured its readers that, in fact, there had been a plot by some
                    German-Americans to make the 
                        United States
                     a "German country."36 Reports of German
                    propaganda caught the attention of Indiana educators during the war.37 In one
                    case, an Indiana school inspector came across a high school textbook that allegedly provided its
                    readers with a favorable description of 
                        Germany
                    's kaiser.38
            
            
               
                  33 ISTA, Proceedings, 1917, 43, 290-91.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 105, 282.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., 343-44.
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 26, 1919. These accusations were not entirely baseless. For
                        example, in the early- and mid-nineteenth century, some German immigrants hoped to concentrate
                        their settlement within the 
                            United States
                         in order to form German states that might eventually separate; see Faust, The German Element, II, 184-85. But most of the reports of German machinations
                        were grossly distorted; for the German-American response to the allegations of anti-American
                        plots see Schrad-er, Handbook for German Americans, II, 60.
               
                  37"How German Propaganda Worked in Respect to a School 
                            Text
                         by an Indiana School Man," Indiana Instructor, II (May
                        1918), 32. According to this essay, in 1915 the German-American Alliance attempted to halt the
                        publication of a book by an Indiana University history professor that commented on the war in
                        Europe; the book proved to be offensive to some German-Americans, particularly to professors and
                        teachers of German, presumably because of its anti-German sentiments. After the U.S. entered the
                        war, the professor was called to testify against the Alliance before the U.S. Senate, when it
                        was considering banning the organization.
               
                  38"More Evidence of German Propaganda in the Schools,"
                            Indiana Instructor, II (July 1918), 15.
            
            
            In 1918 the frenzied atmosphere spread to other German-American institutions. 
                        Indianapolis
                    's leading German-language daily, the Telegraph und Tribune,
                    informed its readers throughout May 1918 of increasing pressures against the foreign-language
                        press.39 On May 31, the Telegraph abruptly announced that
                    it would cease publication on Monday, June 3, because "a pronounced prejudice has arisen in
                    this country against everything printed or written in the German language, regardless of the fact
                    that the German language newspapers are the means of reaching thousands of persons who are reached
                    in no other way."40 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Turnverein, reflecting on the war era, stated in 1926 that "in 
                        Indianapolis
                     hatred against the citizen of German extraction was artificially stimulated, and
                    irresponsible hotheads even went so far as to threaten the societies composed of such of their
                    fellow citizens."41 This hatred of everything German compelled the
                    gymnastic society to change the name of its club hall from Das Deutsche Haus to
                    the Athenaeum.42 Perhaps the most extreme manifestation of hatred occurred in
                    neighboring 
                        Illinois
                    , where in April 1918, a German immigrant was lynched by a nativist mob.43
            
            Concern over German-Americans' loyalty to the U.S. was not entirely unwarranted. Some
                    accusations of un-American activities contained a kernel of truth. Some German-Americans were
                    Socialists, and many others acted out of a sense of loyalty to the Vaterland. For
                    example, before the 
                        United States
                     declared war, a handful of Germans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     sought to join the German army, using Das Deutsche Haus as a
                    headquarters. The city's German-language press, in this period, favored the Central Powers
                    over the Allies. Some Americans expressed their suspicion of 
                        Germany
                    's Delbrück Law, which allowed emigrants to keep their German
                    citizenship even after being naturalized by another state. However, German-Americans were quick to
                    point out that the dual citizenship law did not apply to German-born Americans, who were citizens of
                    the 
                        United States
                     only. Once America entered the war, most of the city's residents of Germanic
                    background were in fact loyal to their new homeland.44 In May 1917, 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribüne, May 8, 11, 17, 23, 1918.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., May 31, 1918.
                  
                     41
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Turnverein, 21
                  
                     42
                            Ibid.; Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 152-53.
                  
                     43 Luebke, Bonds of loyalty, 3-10. There was also a
                            lesser-known murder that occurred in Indiana. Shortly after the sinking of the Lusitania in 1915, a pastor from Gary was killed by "fantisierten Angloamerikanern" for speaking out in favor of Deutschtum (Germanness). See Colin Ross, Unser Amerika: Der
                                deutsche Anteil an den Vereinigten Staaten (Leipzig, 
                                Germany
                            , 1936), 316; Schrader, Handbook for German Americans, 2.
                  
                     44 Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty, 63; Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 147-49, 151-52; Schrader, Handbook for German
                            Americans, 22; Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 18-19. While some
                            German-Americans suggested that the Delbrück Law did not apply to U.S. citizens
                            of Germanic origins, legal scholars during the war years were not so certain. David Jayne
                            Hill, for instance, noted that the law certainly did not apply to all German-Americans
                            because it required emigrants to obtain the "written
               
                     the Telegraph und Tribüne ran
                    advertisements for liberty bonds that stated, "Uncle Sam needs your money! He has helped
                    you. Now is the time to help him." A year later, the Telegraph was
                    praised by the Liberty Loan campaign for the newspaper's "hearty, unselfish,
                    patriotic co-operation in the publicity work incident to the Third Liberty Loan
                        campaign."45
            
            Despite evidence of their loyalty, German-Americans throughout the
                    country—"hyphens" as they were sometimes derogatively
                    called—were accused of everything from starting fires to putting broken glass in food and
                        drink.46 Although these accusations proved false,
                    "Germanophobia" continued.47 To be German was to be
                    un-American and undemocratic. The history section of the ISTA, for instance, was quick to point out
                    that "[t]he colonies had originally risen against George III, a German, because of his
                    autocratic mood."48 Ohlinger suggested that because the German language
                    itself contained "no equivalents for such expressions as ‘liberty,’
                    ‘pursuit of happiness,’ [or] ‘the consent of the
                    governed,’" German speakers could never become truly American.49
            
            The schools continued to serve as battlefields in this war of ideas. Teachers and administrators
                    became, in Briggs's phrase, the "soldiers of the schools," attempting to
                    counteract foreign notions through the process of Americanization.50 The most
                    obvious step in this process was the suppression of the "Hun Language."51 Woodburn, for instance, hoped for a country in which only English was used.
                    "Let us strive," he said, "to save America from being a polyglot
                    nation—a conglomeration of tongues and nationalities, like a ‘polyglot
                    boardinghouse,’ as Mr. Roosevelt has put it." The history sec- 
                  consent" of the German goverment before it would restore their citizenship. He
                            also suggested that the law became void if it was found to have
                            "disturbed" a previously negotiated treaty with another nation. Hill
                            argued that the treaties between the U.S. and 
                                Germany
                             remained "undisturbed" by the Delbrück Law, so
                            there was no reason to assume that 
                                Germany
                             would not consider some Americans to be German citizens, particularly while at
                            war. The American naturalization process, however, was the primary protection against dual
                            citizenship because it demanded that new citizens renounce their previous citizenship
                            "absolutely and forever." See David Jayne Hill, "Dual Citizenship
                            in the German Imperial and State Citizenship Law," American Journal of
                                International Law, XII (April 1918), 357-63.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribüne, May 25, 1917, May 16, 1918
                            (author's translation).
                  
                     46 Wister described German-Americans as the
                            "Kaiser's helpful hyphens." See Ohlinger, German
                                Conspiracy, xix.
                  
                     47 Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture,
                            117-21.
                  
                     48 ISTA, Proceedings, 1917, 337.
                  
                     49 Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 107-108.
                  
                     50 ISTA, Proceedings, 1919, 104; Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture, 108. In general, educators around the
                            country did not support the elimination of German-language instruction when the war first
                            began. However, as the mood of the country became more radical regarding German-language
                            instruction, educators revised their positions and often enthusiastically supported the
                            nativist campaigns. See ibid., 96-97, 108-11.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919; Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 153.
               
                     tion of the ISTA discussed this issue at its 1917 meeting. At
                    ISTA's 1919 meeting, University of 
                        Washington
                     President Henry Suzzallo announced that his immigrant father, who spoke five languages,
                    wanted his children to hear only English.52
            
            The assault on the IPS German-language program began the month after the declaration of war, when the
                    American Rights Committee complained to the school board that the German language was being used in
                    some German classes to sing patriotic songs such as the "Star Spangled Banner."53 The organization's five hundred members demanded that the practice
                    be investigated and, if confirmed, stopped immediately. On January 29, 1918, the board voted, over
                    the objections of German-American member Theodore Stempfel, to end German-language instruction in
                    the city's elementary schools immediately. The board justified the action by stating that
                    "the public schools should teach our boys and girls the principle of one nation, one
                    language, and one flag, and should not assist in perpetuating the language of an alien enemy in our
                    homes and enemy viewpoints in the community." The German teachers were to be reassigned
                    until their contracts ended.54
            
            Some high school German classes were still offered, but their enrollment was seriously depleted, a
                    trend that occurred throughout the country. At the beginning of the 1918–1919 school
                    year, for example, only 112 students enrolled in German classes at 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Technical High School, down from 1,178 during the 1916–1917
                    school year. For the most part, only students who had already begun the high schools'
                    German program continued to take German courses; they did so in order to fulfill the
                    foreign-language requirements needed to graduate. The position of director of modern languages was
                    eliminated, but the former director, Scherer, became supervisor of German to oversee the remaining
                    high school program.55 Even the high school German textbooks came under attack.
                    Max Walter and Carl A. Krause's text for beginners, used by order of a 1913 state law, was
                    now said to be "pro-German in its tendencies."56
            
            In 1918, Germanophobia was in full swing in 
                        Indianapolis
                    's public schools. Teachers, who now had loyalty clauses written into their
                    contracts, could be terminated if they spoke out against the U.S. or 
                  
                     52 ISTA, Proceedings, 1917, 123, 335-36, 350.
                  
                     53 Some educators resisted appeals to patriotism and instead promoted
                            nativist designs by arguing that German instruction was simply not practical for American
                            students because they would not have many opportunities to use the skill. See
                            "Potent Reasons Why German Should Not be Taught in the Public Schools,"
                                Indiana Instructor, II (October 1917), 3-4. See also Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture, 106-107.
                  
                     54 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 371-75.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 378; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919; Luebke, "Legal Restrictions,"
                            36.
                  
                     56 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 376; IPS, Annual Report, 1916, 133.
               
                     were found to "inculcate or aid in the support of, or
                    admiration for the … Kultur of 
                        Germany
                    ." The school board, alarmed that IPS'S elementary students might be
                    harmed by lingering remnants of Kultur, banned one of the poems in the third
                    reader, Kaiserblumen, and suggested that the pages on which the poem appeared
                    could be glued together.57
            
            In the European theater of war, American troops helped defeat 
                        Germany
                     and its allies by November 1918, but in the American theater of war, nativist soldiers
                    believed they had not yet defeated German-American culture.58 The
                    Woman's Auxiliary of the Rainbow Regiment Cheer Association, consisting of female relatives
                    of soldiers in the 150th Field Artillery, warned that "the German language in the
                    elementary schools of the state will be a tool in the hands of German propagandists who are seeking
                    to bring about a soft peace with 
                        Germany
                    ."59 IPS had halted much of the German instruction in the
                    city, but a stronger and farther-reaching measure was deemed necessary to stop the "enemy
                    language" in 
                        Indianapolis
                    : a statewide law banning German not only from public schools, but from private and
                    parochial elementary schools as well. Supporters of Senate Bill 276, drafted by State Senator 
                        Franklin
                     McCray and Lieutenant Governor Edgar D. Bush, reasoned that such a law would eliminate
                    the next generation's need for newspapers and public information printed in a foreign
                        language.60
            
            Presented to the Indiana Senate on February 17, 1919, the first two sections of McCray's
                    bill stated that English would be the only lawful language in which to teach subjects in
                    Indiana's public, private, and parochial elementary schools. Section one further stated
                    that "the German language shall not be taught in any of the elementary schools of this
                    state." Another section of the bill included the provision that violators would be fined up
                    to one hundred dollars andor spend up to six months in jail. In mid-February 1919, a new measure was
                    added to the bill that would repeal other laws that were inconsistent with it, such as the German
                    school law of 1869.61
            
            Only one senator, from 
                        South Bend
                    , voted against the McCray bill. The following day, it was "favorably"
                    reviewed by the house committee on education. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reported that "because of state-wide interest … [the
                    bill] was easily identified by number" when it reached the floor of the house on February
                    25. The house suspended the constitutional regulation "requiring the bills be read on three
                    separate days" and unanimously passed the bill in a quarter of an 
                  
                     57 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 375, 377-78.
                  
                     58 Luebke, "Legal Restrictions," 42.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919.
                  
                     60 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 153; IPS, Annual Report, 1909, 154; ibid., 1916, 131; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 26, 1919; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919; Indiana, House Journal (1919),
                            519-20.
                  
                     61 Indiana, Laws (1919), 50-51; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919.
               
                     hour.62 Shortly afterward, the governor
                    signed the act, and it was taken to the secretary of state. Upon arrival, McCray's
                    legislation became a state law "immediately," because it included a sixth section
                    that stated that "an emergency exists for the immediate taking effect of this
                    act." This process, from the time the bill was read in the house to the time it became a
                    law, took just over an hour and a half.63
            
            Indiana was one of the first states to pass such a law, and its German-Americans understood the mood
                    of the country and adjusted to it. Some became self-conscious about their German ancestry. State
                    Representative Sam Benz, for instance, stated, "I'm a German … but you
                    can't make this bill too strong to suit me. Not only do I indorse the exclusion of German,
                    but I would be in favor also of taking out all foreign languages." The Lutheran and
                    Catholic schools in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had halted German instruction during the war.64 There was no longer
                    a powerful German-language press to rally the protests of German-Americans and to protect
                    German-language instruction as it had done in the nineteenth century; in fact, very few of
                    Indiana's German-language newspapers, particularly secular papers, continued after the
                        war.65
            
            However, there were still those few lingering German classes in the high schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and, presumably, throughout the rest of the state. Even before McCray's
                    legislation was introduced, another bill appeared on the floor of the Indiana State Senate to
                    address the remaining high school German courses. On February 5, 1919, State Senator Glenn 
                        Van
                     Auken introduced Senate Bill 208, the purpose of which was to amend the 1907 state law
                    that required German as a foreign-language option in the high schools of Indiana. Perhaps because
                    the weakened high school programs seemed to lawmakers to pose less of a threat than those in the
                    elementary schools, 
                        Van
                     Auken's legislation did not have the same urgency as the McCray Bill. Senate
                    Bill 208 was read three times, referred to committees twice, and amended once before passing the
                    senate and moving on to the house.66 After nearly a month in the house, the bill
                    passed and was returned to the senate on March 10, 1919.67 The amended school
                    law stated that "Latin or any modern foreign language except Ger- 
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919; Indiana, House Journal (1919),
                            519.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919; Indiana, Laws (1919), 51.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 26, 1919. Some parochial schools in Indiana protested
                            against the McCray Bill and other similar types of legislation. For example, although it
                            used English as the language of instruction for academic subjects, one Lutheran
                            church—the First Evangelical Lutheran Immanuel Church of Seymour,
                            Indiana—requested in a letter to the lieutenant governor that religious
                            instruction be excluded from English-only legislation, such as House Bill No. 6, which was
                            pending at the time the letter was written. Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1919), 156.
                  
                     65 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 375; Ziegler, German-Zanguage Press, 1-27.
                  
                     66 Indiana, Laws (1919), 822-23; Indiana, Senate Journal (1919), 245, 969.
                  
                     67 Indiana, House Journal (1919), 359-60, 828, 835,
                            1098.
               
                     man" was required to be taught in the state's
                    high schools.68 IPS'S once-flourishing German-language program had come
                    to an end, and German-American culture in the city had been irreparably damaged. Although the bill
                    had eliminated the high school German classes, some German teachers managed to find new subjects to
                    teach. At Shortridge High School, for instance, Louis H. Dirks switched to teaching English.69
            
            What happened to 
                        Indianapolis
                    's German-language program was not an anomaly. German instruction was severely
                    restricted in many areas throughout the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     during and aRer the Great War. Even before the war, laws in 
                        Arizona
                     and 
                        California
                    , among other states, already mandated English-only schools. In the war era twenty-one
                    states further restricted foreign-language education in the elementary grades, making English the
                    only lawful language of instruction. There was a degree of variation among these restrictive state
                    laws, however. 
                        Oklahoma
                    , West 
                        Virginia
                    , South Dakota, and 
                        Illinois
                     all declared that teaching subjects in a foreign language was illegal in both public
                    and private schools; by contrast, Indiana, as already noted, specifically outlawed the German
                    language from its schools. In 
                        New Hampshire
                    , children attending private schools were exempted from the state's mandatory
                    attendance law only if they attended private schools where English was the language of instruction. 
                        Minnesota
                     passed a law requiring English for the traditional school subjects and reducing the
                    amount of time for foreign languages to one hour daily.70
                    
                        Nebraska
                    , however, passed what the 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Law Review called "the most far reaching legislation"
                    regarding foreign-language instruction. The 
                        Nebraska
                     law stated that "[n]o person individually or as a teacher, shall in any
                    private, denominational, parochial or public school teach any subject to any person in any language
                    [other] than the English language," and no foreign-language instruction would be permitted
                    until the high school level.71
            
            In many ways, the restrictive policies and nativism seen in Indiana and its capital city reflected
                    those in the rest of the country, but, overall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    's cultural war was rather mild. Some cities in the 
                        United States
                    , for example, eliminated German programs without going through legal channels.
                    Additionally, there were no public 
                  
                     68 Indiana, Senate Journal (1919), 823.
                  
                     69 Laura Sheerin Gaus, Shortridge High School,
                                1864–1981: In Retrospect (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1985), 109.
                  
                     70 Wittke, German-Americans and the World War,
                            180-81; Jerrold B. Burnell, "he Decline of German Language and Culture in the North
                            American Heartland, 1890-1923" (Paper delivered at the Annual Meeting of the
                            Comparative and International Education Society, 
                                New York
                            , March 18-21, 1982), 6; Luebke, "Legal Restrictions," 42;
                            Henry J. Fletcher, ed., "Recent Legislation Forbidding Teaching of Foreign
                            Languages in Public Schools," 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 Law Review, IV (May 1920), 449-50; Rippley, German
                                Americans, 124.
                  
                     71"Recent Legislation," 450.
               
                     rallies against Germanic citizens in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as there were in other places, perhaps because the Germans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were not viewed as alien residents. Rather, the German-Americans were a large and
                    integral part of the city's population; they were teachers, doctors, storekeepers, bankers,
                    and laborers, as well as neighbors.72 Near the turn of the twentieth century,
                    Stempfel characterized 
                        Indianapolis
                     as "a peaceable city," where, at least in earlier decades, nativism
                    "had a hard time taking hold."73 Although many of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's citizens were swept up in the patriotic and nativist fervor of the First
                    World War, the tradition of primarily harmonious relations with their German-American neighbors may
                    have held some of the more extreme fanatics at bay.
            The American entry into the Great War did not end all aspects of the German-Americans'
                    unique culture. The gymnastic clubs, churches, and the Maennerchor all survived the cultural
                    persecution that occurred in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .74 German-language instruction, however, never fully recovered; it
                    was still absent from the IPS curriculum in the early 1920s, but it found its way back into the high
                    schools within a decade.75 Senator McCray's legislation was eventually
                    undermined when the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court decided in 1923 that the elimination of German hm private and parochial
                    schools was unconstitutional. In Meyer v. 
                        
                            Nebraska
                        
                     and similar cases the court found that knowing, learning, and teaching a foreign language fall
                    under the rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.76
            
            Probst wrote in the closing section of his The Germans in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1840–1918 that "it is absurd to assume that use of a
                    foreign language in an ethnic environment—be it German, Italian, or
                    Polish—somehow makes a person an unpatriotic citizen."77 It
                    is perhaps equally absurd to assume that foreign-language instruction for elementary and secondary
                    students undermines the American ideal. Yet in Indiana and other states, during and after World War
                    I, patriotism, hysteria, and, at times, ethnic hatred fueled a campaign that allowed the German
                    language to be seen as a threat rather than as an intellectual benefit.78 When
                    Ohlinger argued that 
                        France
                     and, especially, 
                  
                     72 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 88-90, 153; Luebke, "Legal Restrictions," 36-42.
                  
                     73 Theodore stempfel, Fifty Years of Unrelenting German
                                Aspirations in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , eds. Giles R. Hoyt, Claudia Grossmann, Elfrieda Lang, and Eberhard
                            Reichmann (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1991), 21.
                  
                     74 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 154.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Schools, Survey Findings: Senior High School Division,
                                Secondary Schools (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 21-22; General Education Board, Public Education in
                                Indiana: Report of the Indiana Education Survey Commission (
                                New York
                            , 1923), 102.
                  
                     76 Wittke, German-Americans and the World War,
                            181-82; Luebke, "Legal Restrictions," 43-47; Rippley, German
                                Americans, 125-26.
                  
                     77 Probst, Germans in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 154.
                  
                     78 Ellis, "Historical Account of German
                            Instruction," 375.
               
                    
                    
                        England
                     were America's "parent countries," he failed to note that
                    those nations did not eliminate German instruction during the war; presumably, they recognized the
                    value of knowing the language, especially while at war.79 In many parts of the 
                        United States
                    , the desire for English-only public elementary schools continues today. Activated for
                    different reasons and affecting different groups of people, such sentiment nevertheless attests to
                    the continued tendency of an anxious public to identify in foreign languages the threat of a
                    "different philosophy" upon the American way of life.80
            
            
               
                  79 Ohlinger, German Conspiracy, 113; Kirschbaum, Eradication of German Culture, 97-98.
               
                  80 For an interesting discussion of bilingual education and its omonents
                        see David C. Berliner and Bruce J. Biddle, The Manufactured Crisis: Myths, Fraud,
                            and the Attack on America's Public Schools (Reading, Mass., 1995),
                    202-207.
            
         
         
         
            
               INDIANA STATE MUSEUM, CANAL SIDE
               Courtesy Indiana State Museum, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            Reflections on the Indiana State Museum and Historic Site: A Conversation with Doug Noble
            
                    On May 22, 2002, the Indiana State Museum completed its move into a new
                        270,000-square-foot building in 
                            Indianapolis
                        's White River State Park. The facility includes
                        60,000 square feet of permanent exhibits, 12,000 square feet of changing exhibit space, two
                        restaurants (one of which is a recreation of the historic L.S. Ayres tea room), gift shop, and
                        an IMAX Theater. The building, which stores the museum's collection of 400,000
                        artifacts, was designed by Ratio Architects of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , the exhibits by Ralph Appelbaum Associates Inc. of 
                            New York
                        .
                
            
                    Douglas R. Noble, who assumed the position of chief executive officer in June 2001, was
                        previously director of the Pink Palace Family of Museums in 
                     Memphis, Tennessee
                  .
                        During his twenty-one-year tenure at the Pink Palace, the museum (originally the home ofPig-gly
                        Wiggly grocery stores founder Clarence Saunders) expanded to 176,000 square feet, becoming the
                        best-attended not-for-profit museum in 
                            Tennessee
                        . Noble has served on the board of trustees of the American Association of Museums
                        (AAM) and is past-president of the Southeastern Museums Conference.
                
            
               In August 2002, Noble was interviewed by James H. Madison, Thomas and Kathryn Miller
                        Professor of History at Indiana University, and a former editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History. Both 
                            Madison
                         and Noble reviewed the original transcript of the conversation for accuracy. It has
                        been further edited, for length and clarity, by the editors.
            
            Jim 
                        Madison
                    : What did you think when people first approached you from Indiana about coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and doing what you're now doing?
            Doug Noble: You know, the first question a lot of people ask is, "well, you had been in 
                        Memphis
                     for twenty-one years, why make a change?" I think I'd reached a point
                    in my professional life [where] I felt that I … really needed a change and a challenge,
                    and clearly this was a unique opportunity. I think it gave me an opportunity to do in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —I hope, in the next year or two—what took twenty-one years in 
                        Memphis
                    . First of all, I was attracted [by] the scale of the 
                    
                  DOUGLAS R. NOBLE
                  Courtesy Indiana State Museum, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                project: the architect's [Bill Browne of Ratio Architects of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ] concept of narrative architecture, the use of Indiana building materials, the great
                    significance to the positioning of the building on the old national highway [U.S. Route 40], and the
                    fact that it was sort of the last major piece of the development of White River
                    State Park. From a management and strategic [viewpoint], I saw the challenge for this project as
                    [one of] moving from an old venerable location—that was fine—[to] a whole new
                    institution. It's got the synergy of the IMAX Theater being part of it, of being located in
                        White River State Park surrounded by some very interesting and effective
                    attractions. It's in a vibrant, progressive city that has so much to offer culturally and,
                    you know, the new museum is an exciting opportunity.
            JM: What do you see as the challenges or opportunities of the next year or two?
            DN: It's to move toward creating a state museum commission. That would be a
                    quasi-governmental organization [that would provide] what we really need for this place to grow and
                    succeed, following the university model. The state will always need to be a financial player, but we
                    need to develop a financial partnership, and that means the foundation [the State Museum's
                    not-for-profit fundraising arm] getting earned income which ultimately could flow to the commission,
                         once it's created, [from] the restaurant, the
                    after-hours rental, ticket admissions, and so on. Through gifts and donations, grant writing, and
                    other fund-garnering opportunities, [such as] a planned giving program to build an endowment, we
                    create diversified sources of revenue. Those diversified sources of revenue shelter us from the
                    vagaries of the economy, government cutbacks, soaring fuel prices that might cause a slump in
                    tourist attendance. So really what we're talking about is a different kind of model for
                    operating a state facility.
            JM: Let me move from finances and administration to the museum exhibit itself and to the
                    interpretation. You are a state institution. How free are you to interpret Indiana as you and the
                    curators wish? How constrained do you feel by the fact that you are a state institution, that there
                    are Democrats and Republicans, that there are Methodists and Baptists and Catholics and all the rest
                    that make life so interesting these days?
            DN: Thus far I haven't been approached with concerns about what has been done and presented
                    in the museum. I think that there are a number of issues that are pretty boldly and
                    straightforwardedly dealt with in the exhibits.
            JM: You have a Klan robe, very prominently displayed. Is that controversial?
            DN: [It's] a tremendous icon that causes in many people a visceral reaction, an emotional
                    reaction—and it's exactly what we want to do. With it is a 78-rpm record, which
                    sold for a dollar back in the twenties, [by a] choir called "The Women of the
                    Klan" and I suspect that it was sold as a fundraiser for the Ku Klux Man. Spotted
                    throughout the exhibits are a lot of depictions of things that are emotional and historically
                    honest. I think it's a pretty straightforward presentation of Indiana history. It
                    isn't all "feel-good" stuff but it is engaging, and what is interesting
                    is to observe visitor behavior and use that as a benchmark. We're going to start doing some
                    pretty serious visitor studies here before long. No, I don't think that I have felt any
                    political heat, nor am I aware of the members of the staff coming to me anecdotally and saying,
                    "Yeah, we were approached by such-and-such office expressing concerns about this."
            JM: Are you content with the degree to which you've integrated African-American history into
                    the presentation? Is that where it ought to be?
            DN: I think it was very well done. We had a number of very helpful people, including Wilma Gibbs from
                    the [Indiana] Historical Society across the street, on an advisory committee that played a major
                    role. 
                    
                  KU KLUX KLAN DISPLAY
                  Courtesy Indiana State Museum, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     I think the challenge with African-American history oftentimes
                    in a museum setting is finding artifacts—finding images and the things that can tell the
                    story as a museum should tell the story. But I think nevertheless, based on most of the history
                    museums I've seen around the country, we did a very credible job. What we want to do is be
                    sure that people understand that the African-American cultural history content is contained and
                    integrated throughout the permanent exhibits and that this space which we're referring to
                    now as the African American Living History Theater [at one time planned to be Free Town Village] is
                    a different approach to interpretation. It is not artifact-rich, it never was. It is largely
                    didactic, and the real essence of this experience will actually be the use of live performers
                    working in that space.
            JM: Let me ask you about museums in general as learning experiences. My sense is that museums are
                    pretty hot these days. Is that right, that they're flourishing, their attendance is
                    up—is it not the case [that] in the last ten years or so, people seem more engaged?
                    [That] museums are more serious?
            DN: I do think museums have become much more conscious of this whole idea [that] we have a
                    responsibility [not only] to educate, but to engage people and get people to come. In order to do
                    that, the material has to be presented in an entertaining way that engages people. If
                    they're having fun while they're visiting, so much the better. You see that in a
                    number of our exhibits. On the one hand we could have a label down in the historical geology section
                    which details ice age mammals. We could have a list of how much an ice age musk oxen and a
                    short-faced bear weighed. What we opted to do [instead] was put a large scale in the floor and one
                    person or a group of individuals can stand on the scale and visually compare their weight to these
                    extinct beasts. We are primarily a family-driven institution in terms of our primary audience. You
                    know, school kids are important and represent a significant percentage, but families are the largest
                    percentage of visitors. So, fundamentally the information is the same; it's just, how do
                    you present it to make it interesting and fun to people?
            JM: Now some would say that moving in that direction and making museums fun is moving away from the
                    serious purpose, particularly of scholarship. And there are some tensions there sometimes. Do you
                    feel those tensions?
            DN: I think in the museum world those tensions exist, but it depends a lot on the nature of the
                    museum, how old the institution is, and oftentimes you may see that tension more in a university
                    museum environment than in a museum like this which really justifies its  existence based upon utilization. $105 million has been
                    spent here. Quite frankly, if we built this and only had a thousand visitors a year, I think
                    we'd be in pretty serious trouble. So there is an expectation that people are going to
                    come, and part and parcel with that, what the AAM is now calling "the public dimension of
                    the museum" has taken on a greater and greater priority. I think there are those museums
                    that are well-equipped because they have a huge endowment to support scholarly activity. Perhaps
                    they are affiliated with a college or university and have the resources, the graduate school and the
                    graduate students to be doing those kinds of activities. Here, I would say that our research is kind
                    of outcome-directed. If we do research, the end result is an education program or an exhibit. So
                    that we're not just doing research for the sake of doing research here. We are fortunate in
                    having a lot of [research] resources. We can go across the street to the historical society and seek
                    help. We can go to Indiana University ….
            JM: I hope so!
            DN: As you know, there are many competent scholars and a wide array of activities. I think here our
                    job is to sort of spark people's imaginations, [to] fulfill their need to see objects, and
                    [to] present those objects in a compelling way; if somebody becomes enormously interested in some
                    aspect of Indiana history then there are many other resources available to them. We're not
                    here to offer history degrees. We're not here to teach history in the same way that it
                    would be taught in the middle school, the high school, or at the university level. I think
                    we're here to present ideas through objects that hopefully get people to think a little
                    bit—maybe enliven a subject that they never thought much about before, they'd
                    never given much consideration to.
            JM: In the quarter century and more that you've been in the museum field, how would you
                    characterize the changes that you've seen, that you've observed?
            DN: If you would have asked me twenty-five years ago, would I be running a movie theater or spending
                    the amount of money that we have to spend for marketing and developing fully fleshed-out marketing
                    plans, talking about stuff like brand identity, identifying demographic audiences, I would have been
                    incredulous. This would have been beyond me. But I think clearly all of this has changed. A lot of
                    it has to do, of course, with the scale and sophistication of an operation. But we're in a
                    very competitive marketplace here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . I mean, look at the choices people have! They can go to the symphony, they can go to
                    the ballet. They can go see a Colts game. They can go see a race. In that mix of demand for
                    people's time—including the way families unfortunately overbook their children
                    in activities after  school—we are asking them to
                    give us a little of their time. We want them to come here. And so to make that happen drives our
                    thinking about how we plan exhibits, how we execute them, and, to a certain extent, which
                    exhibitions we bring in.
            JM: About the subject matter?
            DN: We've moved beyond the point where the curator is the subject expert, independent of
                    anyone else. This harkens back to yesteryear and may still be true in some institutions today. It
                    doesn't matter how important the subject matter is, it doesn't matter how good the
                    curator thinks the exhibit is: if nobody comes then, what's the point? So we have to be
                    very careful when we look at our resources. Rental costs for exhibitions are staggering. I never
                    would have dreamed I would reach a point in my career where I would see over $200,000
                    being spent on a changing exhibit and not be terribly concerned about it. It's a lot of
                    money, but then again, in the greater scheme of things, [in] what we're doing here and
                    what's going on in American museums today, it's not that much money. But
                    it's being spent to bring something in for three to four months and it's got to
                    work.
            JM: What's lost in this transition? Is there anything lost in the thirty years
                    you've been in the business in this transition?
            DN: Well, from a personal perspective, starting out early in my career I was with small institutions
                    and I wore a lot of hats. It was so much fun in those days and I miss that. You know, now
                    I'm an administrator and a fundraiser and a strategic planner. [But] philosophically, I
                    like the direction museums have taken over the last two or three decades. I think they are being
                    responsive to [their] principle purpose, which is nothing more than a self-directed educational
                    experience. You don't have to do this, you've got a lot of choices. How can we
                    reach you and be effective? I like the challenge of taking something that at first blush might be
                    inherently boring to people and trying to figure out a way to present it that they can get excited
                    about it. Sometimes we succeed and sometimes we don't.
            JM: Yes. But does the transition leave less room for the kind of creativity at, let's say,
                    the curator level in particular, [for] the kind of opportunity to pioneer and to innovate? Because
                    one might suppose that the tyranny, the fear of the bottom line of marketing and people coming
                    through the doors is such that you can't take a risk.
            DN: No, I think, quite the opposite. If the curator can interact with the public, with the user of
                    the program, with colleagues, with different points of view, that's a stimulating
                    situation. I think we're at our best when we work together. We can do good things alone and
                    there  are certain kinds of activities that lend themselves to
                    working alone. But I'm not sure that scholarship in the context of the modern museum is
                    necessarily one of them.
            JM: Let's turn to Indiana; you're still a relative newcomer to the state and that
                    may mean that you have a fresh eye on Indiana, on Hoosiers. What do you think about Hoosiers?
                    What's your impression initially here?
            DN: If you'd said, "What was your impression of Indiana before you moved
                    here?," I would have said, "I have no impression of Indiana." I visited
                    my grandparents when I was a child, when they lived in 
                        Evansville
                     and I lived in a small town in 
                        Arkansas
                    , and I was going to the big city because they had a zoo, the Mesker Park Zoo. [As for
                    my more recent impressions,] I had no idea about both the historical and current dependence of the
                    state on manufacturing. And, for some reason or another, I had this idea that the economy was more
                    broadly based. I wasn't terribly shocked by driving around the state to visit our historic
                    sites and seeing the fields of corn. The monocrop agriculture wasn't a surprise, because
                    coming from the South I saw lots of soybeans and cotton. I am surprised to a certain extent by a
                    very fundamental conservatism that exists here.
            JM: Can you elaborate on that? Where do you see that? How do you see that? Do you see it any way in
                    the museum or the reaction to the museum?
            DN: Well, no, actually the reaction to the museum has been very pleasant. We deal with some subjects
                    over in Tomorrow's Indiana that I thought would be a lightning rod for
                    controversy. There's a program over there called the "Future's
                    Forum" and you're introduced to a fictitious farm family in the year 2025. And you
                    have these little screens in front of you and you actually vote. It's like a focus group.
                    And part of it's funny and whimsical. "Should we clone the family dog?"
                    It's really based on genetic engineering as the underlying concept. But it does get into
                    the fact that the farm family mom is pregnant and the child has a predisposition to diabetes. The
                    doctor makes a house call on the high-tech screen at home and says, "Here's the
                    problem, but we come in and we can fix this in vitro through genetic
                    engineering." And, you know, I thought there might be backlash to that, but frankly, people
                    love this thing. They're engaged by it.
            JM: Are there things about Indiana that have interested you or piqued your curiosity as
                    you've seen the place?
            DN: Well, there's the eternal question that no one has the answer to, and that's,
                    "Where in the world did the Hoosier come from?" And  we're caught in that trap now with people asking that same
                    question, so if you do get a real answer let me know.
            JM: There'll never be a real answer. I don't think there's any hope of
                    that.
            DN: I didn't think there would be. I guess one of the most wonderful things I've
                    found is an intense loyalty to the state, and pride which I did not see in my twenty-one years in 
                        Memphis
                    . What is this pride in [being] a Hoosier—whatever a Hoosier
                    is—where does this come from?
            JM: Well, we've thought about that, many of us. And I think it's a very interesting
                    question. No one has the answer to it. But what about the present and the future? Are there ways
                    that those of us in the humanities and in cultural areas can take better advantage of that pride and
                    that loyalty to Indiana, to being a Hoosier? How can we use that to everyone's advantage?
            DN: I guess the challenge is, "How does Indiana tell a story to other people in the region
                    and in the Midwest and the rest of the country that it is a special place? How do you do
                    that?"
            JM: Is that being done here [at the State Museum] as well as it can be?
            DN: No, it's not being done as well as it can be. Because we're a brand new place.
                    We've reinvented ourselves. It isn't like doing a building expansion at your same
                    location. We're no longer self-centered here, existing on the public dole. We have changed
                    and we're very visible. We're subject to criticism. We are subject to public
                    scrutiny and we're certainly subject to the expectations of the people that come. The great
                    news is that universally people who come are having their expectations exceeded. I think our
                    challenge is, when you say state museum, people will come with a preconceived notion that
                    it's going to be purely a history museum.
            JM: So this place will be different in three and five years from now.
            DN: Absolutely. It is evolving. And the whole point is we can't be satisfied with what has
                    been created. We're still installing permanent exhibits. We're still tweaking
                    things. We're still trying to get things to work the way they're supposed to work.
                    And all that will come together in the next four to six, seven months. But looking out to the year
                    2005 and beyond, our challenge is to keep reinventing ourselves. That's why we have the
                    changing exhibit space that's so huge. If we wanted to, we could take all the Hoosier art
                    out of the per-  manent art hall and do a 12,000-square-foot
                    changing exhibit out there of international importance. And we might just do that.
            JM: What's the one exhibit that you would point a visitor towards to get a good sense of
                    what this place is about? Or, what's your favorite exhibit?
            DN: Oh, I hate that. I have several. The museum is large; I mean we have to understand this whole
                    complex is 278,000 square feet. And it's hard for me to just pick out a single exhibit and
                    say, "That's my favorite," because I think some things have been very
                    well done. I think the most exciting place in the museum is in the cultural history exhibits. Our
                    consultant on ADA [Americans with Disabilities Act] talks about this and I like it too. Walking out
                    the rampway into the middle of the simulated limestone quarry does several things. Hopefully, people
                    look down to the floor below, where they see the giant eurypterid swimming and the giant bony fish.
                    They see large pillars of stone standing there. They see the workmen with the derrick to lift a
                    block of limestone. They see the etched images of important buildings in this nation that are built
                    of Indiana limestone. They look above and they get a hint of the third floor, the changing exhibits
                    floor. They look back east through the glass to the city, to the State House. From a viewing
                    perspective, you're engaged in a museum that gives you a sense of connectedness to what was
                    happening in an ancient sea 500 million years ago, to people in the 1920s pulling blocks out of a
                    quarry, then looking into the heart of this vibrant city. I think it's a very special
                    place.
            JM: I agree with you. You don't want to [rush] through there. You want to stand there for
                    quite a while. That reminds me, we haven't said anything about the building itself. This is
                    to my eye a spectacular piece of building.
            DN: Most of the credit for everything that's been done here goes to the people who preceded
                    me—to the architects on the project for their design and the concept for exhibits, and to
                    the members of this staff who have been here working on this project for years before I came. I am
                    not necessarily a fan of contemporary architecture. [But] this building blows me away. I love it.
                    The big voluminous spaces, the use of the glass, the use of the Indiana materials. It's my
                    understanding that the quarry [that our sandstone] came from closed at the turn of the century, and
                    we reopened the quarry to get that sandstone. The clever use of that rough-cut limestone. [Normally]
                    that material is trimmed off the blocks and then ground into dust for cement. It only became
                    valuable when we wanted to try and figure out a way to clad substantial portions of the building. So
                    you've got all of these odd-sized pieces of limestone, many with drill marks, 
                    
                  DELAWARE COUNTY DISPLAY FEATURING BALL JARS AND GARFIELD, CREATION OF LOCAL
                            CARTOONIST JIM DAVIS
                  Courtesy Indiana State Museum, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     [creating] this sort of rough texture versus the smooth finish
                    that you typically see in limestone structures. I did not know that Indiana was first to produce
                    stainless steel. But it's integrated into the building. I think it's a great piece
                    of architecture. It's a very friendly, welcoming piece of space. It isn't a black
                    box. It isn't a tomb. It presents its own challenges in terms of exhibits, but
                    it's just a building that makes you feel good to be in it. And of course the other really
                    wonderful thing is this idea of the ninety-two icons [one for each of the state's
                    counties]. At first I thought, "Boy, this is going to be kitschy." Now they are
                    one of my favorite things in the building.
            JM: I love them.
            DN: They range from the very literal, very traditional to just whimsical, funny, [like] these Ball
                    jars over here on the side of the building ….
            JM: With the pickles?
            DN: With the pickles, and then Garfield the cat stuck in one down in the bottom corner. Every time I
                    see it I smile. And so [I like] the fact that a visitor can come—and they don't
                    have to pay an admission—they can have an hour's experience wandering around in
                    the lobby looking at the treasure cases that we're now finally filling up with just a
                    smattering of eclectic things from our permanent collections. They can go to the gift store. [They]
                    can do this county walk and enjoy the garden between us and the Eiteljorg Museum, and wander through
                    that for a little bit of serenity in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It's good stuff.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               From Cottage to Bungalow: Houses and the Working Class in Metropolitan 
                            Chicago
                        , 1869-1929. By Joseph C. Bigott. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xvi, 261. Illustrations, tables, figures, notes, index.
                    $40.00.)
            Identifying Joseph C. Bigott's central theme is something of a challenge. At one moment the
                    book is about the development of the balloon frame in 
                        Chicago
                    -area residential construction; at another, it is a chronicle of the founding and
                    development of 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, and 
                  West Hammond, Illinois
               ; and at yet another, it is a
                    sociological study of Polish settlement in 
                        Chicago
                     from the 1890s to the 1920s. The book is more a series of loosely related essays than
                    it is a study with a single theme and a clearly stated thesis. It is as much a sociological study of
                    selected ethnic groups, religions, and political issues as it is a study of cottages and bungalows.
            Within the numerous themes Bigott takes up, he poses a number of challenges to traditional ways of
                    understanding urban history. He makes it clear, for instance, that his focus is not on utopian
                    visions of model towns, experimental communities, or high styles of architecture, subjects that
                    typically interest architectural and urban historians. Rather, his emphasis is on common
                    workers' houses built in 
                        Chicago
                     and its suburbs during the period of industrial development and the emergence of
                    corporate capitalism. He examines the material evidence of the built environment by analyzing
                    workers' houses themselves and relevant written sources, photographs, maps, and historical
                    drawings. He combines this material evidence with census materials, housing surveys, and fire
                    insurance maps to illustrate issues of housing types, settlement patterns, and the establishment of
                    religious and political institutions.
            In a chapter on construction practices, Bigott challenges the idea (again, promoted by architectural
                    historians) that a 
                        Chicago
                     carpenter in 1833 invented the balloon frame—a system of light, wood framing
                    that remains standard practice today. He argues instead that the history of home construction must
                    be looked at in a broader perspective, that developments and innovations occurred over a long period
                    of time and were the result of many different people and businesses. Invention took place
                    incrementally as builders met the immediate needs of providing low-cost housing. Construction
                    practices were transformed in the second half of the nineteenth century as factory-made products
                    gradually replaced the handwork of local carpenters.
            In a chapter on the settlement of Polish immigrants in 
                        Chicago
                     and its suburbs Bigott contradicts most social reformers by emphasizing the danger of
                    studying only the poorest neighborhoods where there was rampant crime, prostitution, and gambling.
                    These neighborhoods surely existed, but the real story to Bigott is found in those  neighborhoods that did not deteriorate. A larger portion of Polish
                    immigrants in fact moved out of older neighborhoods into newer outlying communities and parishes,
                    where they gained access to comfortable accommodations in residential areas that offered a wide
                    range of amenities. They obtained better housing often with multiple occupancy, which provided them
                    with rental income, and they received assistance from the Catholic church, which provided the social
                    and religious institutions that gave structure and optimism to their lives.
            Of most interest to Indiana readers will be Bigott's history of the founding and development
                    of 
                        Hammond
                    , a city that provides a good study for the social and economic origins of
                    nineteenth-century cottage housing for a working-class population. Bigott is especially interested
                    in the way corporate power transformed home ownership in industrial communities like 
                        Hammond
                     at the end of the nineteenth century. His study covers a time when northwest Indiana
                    underwent a significant transformation from prairie and sand dunes to one of the largest industrial
                    districts in the world. The growth of this industrial area within the context of rising corporate
                    capitalism redefined the nature of working-class home ownership and construction practices.
            JOHN W. STAMPER is associate professor in the School of Architecture, University of Notre Dame, 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               An Early Encounter with Tomorrow: Europeans, 
                            Chicago
                        's Loop, and the World's Columbian Exposition. By Arnold
                    Lewis. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xv, 353. Illustrations, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paperbound, $21.95.)
            In the generation following the horrific fire of 1871, 
                        Chicago
                     thrived as no other American city. The city, and especially its
                    "Loop," became an urban laboratory for architecture, civil engineering, innovative
                    technology, and commercial activity. In 1893, ambitious city leaders hosted the World's
                    Columbian Exposition to commemorate the four hundredth anniversary of 
                        Columbus
                    's first voyage to America, an event that really served more to celebrate the
                    progress of the host city during its short sixty-year history.
            It is no wonder, then, that Europeans were fascinated by this upstart city in the midwestern 
                        United States
                    , and that thousands of them visited 
                        Chicago
                     between 1880 and 1900. Many of these visitors were experienced travel writers or
                    architectural critics, and their articles form the basis of this book. Arnold Lewis, professor
                    emeritus of art history at the College of Wooster in 
                        Ohio
                    , has utilized literally hundreds of published sources in English, French, and German to
                    present a comprehensive, detailed, and well-written study on what European visitors saw when they
                    came to 
                        Chicago
                     and what they thought about the city and its people. It might have been nice to  know more about how Chicagoans saw themselves at this time and
                    how they reacted to the perceptions of visitors, but Lewis does not focus on those themes.
            Lewis divides his book into two discrete sections, either one of which might have been the basis of a
                    book in itself. The first, subtitled "Laboratory of the Future," records European
                    travelers' impressions of the ambience and tempo of post fire 
                        Chicago
                    . 
                        Chicago
                     differed from the major European cities in ways that perplexed many who recorded their
                    opinions. 
                        Chicago
                     was too purposefully commercial, too smoky, dirty, and crowded. Chicagoans were too
                    focused on the notion that "time is money." With no history upon which to fall
                    back, they relied on technology and innovation to accomplish their goals, with the consequence that
                    the city's attractiveness, gracefulness, humanity, and orderliness were all diminished. Of
                    course, these were not unanimous opinions. Some critics admired 
                        Chicago
                    's ability to adjust well to modern times and its "openness to
                    change," and wrote somewhat wistfully about their home cities' dependence on
                    tradition and a slower pace.
            The book's second section, "
                        Chicago
                    : Modernity Materialized," deals much more specifically with architecture, as
                    revealed in the tall buildings of the Loop, the single-family dwellings of the city's
                    middle- and upper-class suburbs, and the World's Columbian Exposition. Much of the
                    wonderment (and some of the criticism) of travelers stemmed from 
                        Chicago
                    's distinctive downtown, which was so different from the central business
                    districts of 
                  London, Paris
               , or Berlin. By the early 1890s, 
                        Chicago
                     was sporting skyscrapers of twenty or more stories, while the typical commercial
                    building in a European capital rarely exceeded six stories. 
                        Chicago
                    's Loop was almost exclusively devoted to commerce, whereas in Europe, elegant
                    apartment buildings were often intermingled with business establishments. For many, the contrast was
                    hard to appreciate, and European travelers frequently scorned the tall buildings as ugly,
                    inappropriate, and dehumanizing. That the world's fair featured refined and highly
                    derivative neoclassical architecture was, if nothing else, confusing to visitors, since it seemed to
                    fly in the face of what modern 
                        Chicago
                     was all about. Although many thought the classical architecture of the fair was not
                    very well executed, they were stunned by the visual spectacle of this ephemeral fantasy land.
            Lewis concludes his book with a twenty-page appendix providing biographical information on more than
                    115 of the foreign travelers whose writings about 
                        Chicago
                     he utilized and an eighty-page bibliography. The book is well illustrated and includes
                    a good index. An Early Encounter with Tomorrow would be an essential choice for
                    any library or reader with an interest in the history of 
                        Chicago
                    .
            JOHN E. FINDLING is professor of history at Indiana University Southeast, 
                        New Albany
                    . He has researched and written about international expositions for twenty years and is
                    the author of 
                  
                            Chicago
                        's Great World's Fairs (1994).
         
         
         
            
               Ladies and Gentlemen on Display: Planter Society at the 
                            Virginia
                         Springs, 1790–1860. By Charlene M. Boyer Lewis. (
                        Charlottesville
                    : University Press of 
                        Virginia
                    , 2001. Pp. x, 293. Illustrations, notes, works cited, index. Clothbound,
                    $55.00; paperbound, $19.50.)
            The numerous springs in 
                        Virginia
                    's Blue Ridge Mountains were once the favored retreats of the southern elite.
                    Only a handful of these resorts still thrive, now modernized to attract an international clientele.
                    As Charlene M. Boyer Lewis reveals here, they have a fascinating history, one that benefits from the
                    extensive scholarship she brings to her subject. Mountain sulphur springs became a major attraction,
                    not only to those wishing to restore their health, but to many wealthy southerners seeking to escape
                    low-country diseases and boredom during long, hot summers. From the late-eighteenth century until
                    the Civil War, thousands of southerners, and a few Yankees, annually flocked to some seventy of
                    these mountain spas.
            Lewis examines numerous aspects of these resorts and the experiences of both the guests and those who
                    served them. She explores the hotels' unique architectural features, the background of
                    their patrons, and the myriad social activities that they offered. Only a few, she writes, became
                    glittering hotels capable of offering a host of services and social events. Most were small in size
                    and lacked desired amenities, a situation that fostered complaints about poor food, filthy
                    accommodations, and indifferent service. Nevertheless, southerners continued to frequent them. The
                    resorts gave southerners what they needed, especially a stimulating social environment for those in
                    good health. Guests bathed in the soothing—albeit smelly—waters, gossiped,
                    hiked, picnicked, attended masquerade balls, and observed jousting tournaments. The infirm enjoyed
                    quieter days by dipping in the sulphur baths, napping, breathing fresh air, and dining on a bland
                    diet.
            Although the resorts were the preserve of the elite, classes and races interacted and sometimes
                    clashed. Interlopers often were snubbed; "legitimate" guests represented the cream
                    of southern society. In these settings far from home, patrons competed to establish their status.
                    Individuals displayed their finest clothing and laid claim to the most desirable cabin, dining
                    table, or dance partner. Patrons made every effort to uphold the boundaries of southern white
                    society. As Lewis asserts, these 
                        Virginia
                     springs "acted as a theater in which elite white southern society could
                    perform in a contest for social status before a judging audience of their peers" (p. 213).
                    Proprietors were usually middle-class, eager to please their clients and so ensure a full hotel each
                    year. Servants and slaves served patrons but also took advantage of the situation by earning tips
                    for performing extra services and sharing gossip about guests.
            
            The 
                        Virginia
                     resorts also became a setting where southern norms were challenged. Men and women mixed
                    freely in social situations; hotels became public arenas for flirtations and courtship. Southerners
                    boldly discussed their bodies and bodily functions and boasted about each pound of weight gained
                    during a visit. By setting the social standards, women wielded unusual power. Slaves often
                    accompanied their owners to the spas and sometimes also enjoyed the restorative waters to cure a
                    physical ill.
            Lewis's book has much to offer on an interesting subject. Her bibliography and footnotes
                    reveal an impressive amount of research. However, less repetition and a livelier presentation would
                    have made this even more readable. For those intrigued by the life of the South's elite,
                        Ladies and Gentlemen on Display adds important insights into another of the
                    region's social indulgences.
            SALLY G. McMILLEN, professor of history, Davidson College, Davidson, 
                        North Carolina
                    , is the author of Motherhood in the Old South (19901, Southern Women: Black and White in the Old South (1992), and To Raise Up the
                        South: The Sunday School in Black and White Churches (2002).
         
         
            
               Finding the West: Explorations with Lewis and Clark. By James P. Ronda.
                    (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xxii, 160. Maps. $22.95.)
            This book is an imaginative and thoughtful journey into the West of Lewis and Clark as well as into
                    the mind of western American scholar James P. Ronda. Ronda succeeds in crafting a journey, both
                    geographical and intellectual, which should appeal to a wide variety of historians, geographers, and
                    anyone interested in how the West as we know it came to be. Ronda makes explicit reference to
                    geographers such as Carl Sailer, J. K. Wright, and John Allen and their focus on assessing how
                    people have perceived and imagined places in the past. In a series of seven chapters and in an
                    evocative map portfolio, Ronda also leads us through the varied ways in which his own ideas about
                    the West have evolved and matured. The result is a stimulating, elegantly penned collection of
                    essays that reveal once again Ronda's master touch as teacher, writer, and storyteller.
            At the outset, Ronda reminds us that Lewis and Clark brought many stories to their epic journey. Most
                    significantly, they brought the expectations and world view of Thomas Jefferson. Ronda explores how
                    Jefferson's ideas, both factual and fanciful, shaped the expectations of Lewis and Clark
                    along every mile of their journey. Jefferson's perceptions concerning navigable rivers,
                    drainage divides, Native Americans, and the potential for agrarian settlement helped define what the
                    explorers saw and how they reported it along the way. More broadly, in another essay Ronda
                    reconstructs Lewis and Clark's awareness of a larger tradition of North American and global
                    explo-  ration that resonated with the well-known stories of 
                        Columbus
                    , Cook, and Mackenzie. Ronda then uses journals, correspondence, and maps to reconstruct
                    what Lewis and Clark thought they were looking for and what they believed they found. In that
                    process, the two travelers learned from other stories they encountered along the trail, such as
                    those of the Native Americans. Ronda also examines the enduring significance of the stories Lewis
                    and Clark told once their own travels were completed.
            As Ronda reminds us, there were many who shared in the experience of Lewis and Clark's
                    journey. He urges us to consider the words and views of the other men on the expedition as well as
                    the reactions of Native Americans, such as the Clatsop people who had to deal with the demanding and
                    unpredictable travelers as they wintered along the stormy Pacific Coast. Ronda concludes this slim
                    volume with the observation that even as Lewis and Clark saw their expedition as a failure (since no
                    easy route to the Pacific was found), its profound legacy outlasted the travelers themselves: the
                    journey succeeded in stimulating a new North American imagination increasingly focused on the
                    Pacific rather than the Atlantic world, and it spurred generations of later explorers and settlers.
            Overall, Ronda's book succeeds superbly in giving Westerners in the early twenty-first
                    century insight into the process of "finding the West" of two centuries ago. While
                    no one can relive that experience directly, Ronda suggests why it is still worthwhile to try to do
                    so. This collection of essays should function as a splendid road map to that earlier West, a West
                    that still lives in the words of Lewis and Clark, in the rich and varied landscapes they
                    encountered, and in Ronda's own creative imagination.
            WILLIAM WYCKOFF is professor of geography at 
                        Montana
                     State University, Bozeman. His own work on the West has explored the perception,
                    settlement, and economic evolution of settings from nineteenth-century 
                        Colorado
                     and 
                        Montana
                     to twentieth-century 
                        California
                    .
         
         
            
               Jackson's Way: Andrew Jackson and the People of the Western Waters. By
                    John Buchanan. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 2001. Pp. xiii, 434. Illustrations, maps, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $30.00.)
            This book undertakes to place Andrew Jackson within the larger context of American expansion into the
                    trans-Alleghany South and, in the process, to emphasize his military career. In contrast to the
                    usually narrow biographical treatment, John Buchanan's book devotes attention to Indian
                    relations and Jackson's performance on the battlefield. It ends with a close analysis of
                    his victory over the British at 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            
            Buchanan has researched his subject carefully and tells his story forcefully, but most readers will
                    find this book challenging. A previous familiarity with the material will be very helpful. When
                    references are made to a girl named Rachel Donelson, for example, readers are expected to know that
                    she is Jackson's future wife. Secondly, readers need to be somewhat patient, because
                    Jackson does not appear in any substantial way until the seventh chapter. Furthermore, the author
                    frequently offers painstaking detail that has no obvious connection to the book's main
                    narrative. Although readers with a fascination for the subject or time period will find the detail
                    vivid and telling, others may be overwhelmed. The author's "meanwhile back at the
                    ranch…" style of narrative can be somewhat distracting.
            The most original aspect of this book is its inclusion of material on southeastern Indians, preparing
                    the way for telling the story of Jackson's first military success in waging war against the
                    formidable Creeks. The author's treatment of the natives, however, is very traditional, and
                    it is not really clear how the background knowledge contributes to a fresh understanding of
                    Jackson's military actions. The effort to provide context is nonetheless welcome.
            This book will appeal greatly to readers who enjoy traditional military history. In his most
                    compelling chapters, Buchanan successfully presents closely detailed descriptions of
                    Jackson's two major engagements, first against the Creeks and later against the British at 
                        New Orleans
                    . Readers seeking a keener insight into Jackson's character, however, may be
                    frustrated. Buchanan is much indebted to Robert Remini and other predecessors. Although he does a
                    good job showing where scholars disagree and why, his portrait of Jackson remains essentially
                    unchanged. This was a fiery, determined, and brave individual. The author does not attempt a more
                    nuanced understanding. Although he acknowledges some of Jackson's limitations (following
                    the lead of Remini and others), Buchanan's treatment tends toward the hagiographic.
                    Jackson's rash choices to exceed his military authority on several major occasions are
                    portrayed as merely examples of courage. Jackson, with his personal understanding of popular
                    sentiment in the western settlements, undertook the dirty work of conquest that President 
                        Madison
                     and others were too squeamish to authorize and take responsibility for.
            The story of Jackson's rise to national prominence through military victory is important,
                    because American voters have frequently promoted successful generals to the Presidency. This volume
                    provides a useful service in highlighting the abilities that eventually made Andrew Jackson a viable
                    candidate to lead the nation in the early nineteenth century.
            ELLEN ESLINGER is professor of history at DePaul University, 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               . She is
                    the author of Citizens of Zion: The Social Origins of Camp Meeting Revivalism
                    (1999) and a scholar of the early national frontier.
         
         
         
            
               Black Identity & Black Protest in the Antebellum North. By Patrick
                    Rael. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xii, 421. Tables, figures, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $55.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
            Patrick Rael examines the public utterances of elite free northern African Americans in order to
                    probe the foundations of black identity and protest thought. Although periodically reaching back to
                    the American Revolution, Rael primarily investigates the period between 1820 and the Civil War. He
                    seems influenced by the current interest in African Americans in the roles of public intellectuals
                    and conceptualizes his story as a study of antebellum black public discourse. Rael says his work
                    looks at the process of constructing a public racial identity. Moreover, Rael wants to reveal how
                    this public racial identity informs critiques of a democratic but white supremacist nation.
            Rael lays out his historical analysis in an introduction, seven chapters, a conclusion, and an
                    epilogue. He examines data that reveal the social structures of northern black elites. Rael studies
                    antislavery celebrations and their relationship to black leadership. He investigates the naming
                    controversy among African Americans (Negro, Colored, African, etc.), and he scrutinizes the use by
                    black elites of the themes of elevation and respectability to resist oppression and to develop
                    arguments for racial equality. Finally, Rael probes what he feels are the origins of black
                    nationalist discourse, and he describes various ways African Americans express their ideas about
                    nationalism.
            The book complements other texts that examine nineteenth-century black thought. The bibliography is
                    excellent, and the work is useful as a reference source. The writing is clear, but dense and
                    uninviting. Rael offers good insights and covers well the topics he selects for discussion.
            However, claims to address the shortcomings of other works fall short. For example, Rael critiques
                    the limitations of approaches that dichotomize black thought into such categories as integrationism
                    or separatism. However, his examination of the public discourse of a sample of black elites does not
                    support this or his other critiques. By his own admission, Rael removes the ideas under study from
                    their contexts. He does not investigate any individual thinker thoroughly, and he develops his study
                    topically and not systematically. There is no significant discussion of the literature he purports
                    to debunk.
            Other issues are equally troubling. Rael does not pay attention to the problem of what is or is not
                    protest thought, and his use of the term "identity" remains fuzzy. He expresses
                    concern over the conceptual limitations of certain dichotomies, but he fails to recognize the
                    problems inherent in his own use of the liberalism/white supremacy dichotomy. Also, Rael does not
                    acknowledge the existence of sim-  ilar or related critiques of
                    the dichotomies in question in his footnotes, even though he lists at least one such source in his
                    bibliography. Rael pays little attention to the problem of audience, which confounds his already
                    vague use of the term "public mind." Finally, Rael does not discuss in the main
                    body of his work scholars who have deeply influenced his ideas. Sterling Stuckey's seminal
                    work regarding the naming controversy is one example. Despite my criticism, Rael has written a
                    competent and useful text.
            CLOVIS E. SEMMES is professor of African-American Studies at Eastern 
                        Michigan
                     University, Ypsilanti. He is author of Cultural Hegemony and
                        African-American Development (1992); Racism, Health, and
                    Post-Industrialism (1996); and Roots of Afrocentric Thought: A Reference Guide to
                        "Negro Digest/Black World," 1961-1976 (1998). He is currently working on
                    a social history of 
                        Chicago
                    's Regal Theater.
         
         
            
               More Wives Than One: Transformation of the Mormon Marriage System,
                        1840–1910. By Kathryn M. Daynes. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2001. Pp. x, 305. Map, illustrations, figures, tables, appendix, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            Writing about the "Lives of the Saints" in The New Yorker on the
                    eve of the 2002 Olympic Winter Games in 
                        Utah
                    , Lawrence Wright devoted considerable space to polygamy, which has become
                    Mormonism's "most vexing legacy" in spite of the Latter-day Saints (LDS)
                    Church's prohibition of it since 1890 (or 1910). Anyone wishing to understand the complex
                    marriage system developed by the Mormons in the nineteenth century must read Kathryn M.
                    Daynes's remarkable study, recipient of the Mormon History Association's Best Book
                    of the Year Award at its 2002 conference.
            Such praise is unusual for a book that began as a dissertation, completed at Indiana University in
                    1991, and one that adopts a unique five-part structure corresponding to various biblical books:
                    Genesis to Revelation, I Leviticus, Numbers, II Leviticus (versus Deuteronomy), and Acts and Judges.
                    But such a format fits nicely her emphasis on the effects of religion and law on marriage and
                    divorce among the Mormons for the seventy-year duration of the "most notable and notorious
                    feature" of their marital system (p. 83).
            Daynes began her research by reconstituting for the period from 1840 to 1910 the population of Manti, 
                        Utah
                    , located at the state's geographic center and one of the LDS Church's
                    first four temple towns. As a subset of her database she sorted out Manti's 155 polygamists
                    and their 444 wives. She discovered that "Fluctuations in the number entering plural
                    marriage … were decisively affected by immigration rates" (p. 106). The
                    "Women Who Became Plural Wives" (Chap. 6) were most likely fatherless, divorced,
                    or widowed. "Through plural marriage, the church could fulfill its responsibility"
                    to such women of meager means and thereby "more equitably distribute wealth" (p.
                    188).
            
            Not surprisingly, given the tangled nature of plural living, one-fourth of Manti's plural
                    wives opted out of their marriages. Brigham Young frowned on divorce, but according to one clerk,
                    "'As a rule, the Prest. never refuses to grant a bill on the application of the
                    wife, and NEVER when she insists on it'" (p. 154).
            Whether dealing with divorce or marriage, Daynes illustrates the flexible Mormon system with numerous
                    individuals, and not only from Manti. Invariably she succeeds in placing their lives in
                    ever-widening contexts, reaching out over the entire period. She analyzes her elaborate data set in
                    depth in the Numbers part of the book, where she effectively uses all but one of her fifteen graphs
                    and tables.
            Ironically, in placing her small population in the broadest possible contexts, Daynes leaves out any
                    detailed picture of plural living in Manti as a whole. She includes photos of fourteen individuals
                    but does not integrate them with the text or show us their families. At the very least she might
                    have described the plural lives of Manti's leading diarist, a Danish immigrant and tithing
                    clerk named Jens Weibye, and his four wives. In June 1876, he recorded: 
                        253 married men in Manti, 
                                Utah
                            
                  
                        136 Americans, English & Germans
                        117 Scandinavians … where of
                        40 is polygamist, half of them Scandinavisk.
                    
            
            Weibye took pride in the fact that his fellow Scandinavian immigrants were even more inclined than
                    the Americans, English, and Germans to try Mormonism's most challenging
                    "Principle." How, one wonders, could relatively poor Danes manage to support two
                    or more wives? Perhaps if Daynes had included her 1998 article on "Single Men in a
                    Polygamous Society: Male Marriage Patterns in Manti, 
                        Utah
                    ," (Journal of Mormon History, XXIV, pp. 89-111) she would
                    have answered this question. But it would be unfair of any reviewer to ask more of Daynes than she
                    has already done.
            LOWELL BENNION, professor of geography emeritus, Humboldt State University, Arca-ta, 
                        California
                    , now resides in his hometown of 
                        Salt Lake City
                    , where he is working on a book tentatively titled "Plural Wives &
                    Tangled Lives: Polygamy's Place in Mormon Country, ca. 1880."
         
         
            
               Women's Work? American Schoolteachers, 1650–1920. By Joel
                    Perl-mann and Robert A. Margo. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2001. Pp. x, 188. Notes, tables, appendices, index. $32.00.)
            Joel Perlmann and Robert A. Margo have provided an interestingly detailed if not complete analysis of
                    regional, gendered patterns of teaching employment "to explain how [these] patterns came
                    about, evolved, and eventually declined" (p. 1). They attend to a "few key
                    interrelated issues" (p. 5) primarily through analysis of census schedules beginning in
                    1850 (using the Integrated Public Use Micro-  data Sample
                    [IPUMS]), as well as a national sample of American teachers from 1860 and 1880 that Perlmann and
                    Margo compiled from census data, and city records of teachers. Chapters 1-3 focus on regional
                    differences in the feminization of teaching, while chapter 4 examines "patterns common
                    across the country" (p. 86). A fifth chapter on feminization of teaching in urban areas, a
                    conclusion, and five indexes further detailing methodology complete the text.
            In chapter 1 on New 
                        England
                    , Perlmann and Margo argue that the evolving role for women in education was related to
                    institutional traditions and changes in women's education. Comparing the South to the North
                    in chapter 2, Perlmann and Margo examine a whole host of social factors that might explain why
                    teaching in the South was not dominated by women, only to find no satisfactory answer. They then
                    suggest that "diverging regional contexts of school arrangements and perhaps cultural
                    norms" (p.70)—in essence, institutional tradition and regional
                    culture—accounted for differences in feminization between North and South and that these
                    differences migrated with settlers into the Midwest.
            Chapter 3 on migration to the Midwest, and more specifically, the material on pages 74-84, will be
                    most interesting and informative for those attuned to Indiana and midwestern history and culture.
                    Anyone who has spent any time in Indiana will easily recognize the cultural divide between the
                    southern and the northern halves of the state in Perlmann and Margo's analysis of
                    intraregional differences in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    . The authors find that in the northernmost parts of these states, women dominated
                    teaching, while in the southernmost parts they did not and explain this difference by migration
                    patterns: those who settled the northernmost parts of these states were from 
                        New York
                     or other northern states; southerners settled the southernmost parts. Perlmann and
                    Margo suggest that settlers to the Midwest brought specific cultural norms and traditions, including
                    the traditions that encouraged feminization of teaching. They summarize this data nicely in a table
                    detailing "Teaching and Social Origins of Settlers in Selected Counties of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    " (p. 76). Perlmann and Margo further attempt to understand what accounted for
                    these intraregional differences; however, they find that neither wage-ratios, demography, nor social
                    structure explains feminization. Again, they rely on institutional tradition and cultural norms to
                    explain feminization, and, in the case of the Midwest, the migration of people and their traditions
                    and ideas.
            Throughout the text, Perlmann and Margo provide valuable analysis by way of refuting previously held
                    assumptions regarding feminization. However, their detailed explanations of statistical methodology
                    encumber the text so that lucid analyses appear too briefly. They also omit some pertinent
                    scholarship, such as John Rury's chapter in American Teachers: Histories of a
                        Profession at  Work (1989). This book leaves the reader
                    realizing that the "how" and the "why" of feminization across
                    different regions still demand further research.
            LAURIE MOSES HINES is assistant professor in the Cultural Foundations of Education program at 
                        Kent
                     State University, Trumbull Campus, 
                  Warren,
                            Ohio
               . Her article, "When
                    Parallel Paths Cross: Competition and the Elimination of Sex-Segregation in the Education
                    Fraternities, 19694–1974" is forthcoming in History of Education
                        Quarterly. Her areas of research include the history of teachers, women's history,
                    and history of higher education.
         
         
            
               Perryville: This Grand Havoc of Battle. By Kenneth W. Noe. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2001. Pp. xxiv, 494. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes, works consulted, index.
                    $35.00.)
            The Battle of Perryville, fought in 
                        Kentucky
                     on October 8, 1862, marked the Confederate high tide in the western theater. It also
                    served as the beginning of the end of the career of Union Major General Don Carlos Buell. Strangely,
                    both the battle and the campaign have been understudied, even by western revisionists. Kenneth W.
                    Noe's Perryville does much to fill the void.
            Exactly how Rebel General Braxton Bragg's Army of 
                        Tennessee
                     was able to break out of 
                        Tennessee
                     is a story in itself. Noe places the blame where most of it lies, on Buell's
                    inability to commit himself to a plan. Unfortunately, Noe accepts without question Major General
                    George Thomas's interpretation of events, much of which was written after the fact.
            The heroes of the battle in Noe's account are, by and large, small-unit commanders, such as
                    Colonel John C. Starkweather. Most of the generals—Buell, Thomas, Alexander McCook, and
                    Philip Sheridan on the Union side, Bragg and Kirby Smith on the Confederate side—receive
                    justifiable criticism, although Major General Leonidas Polk in the latter group gets a more mixed
                    review.
            The strength of the book is Noe's ability to place the battle in the context of ongoing
                    political and social situations, although the campaign's impact upon the upcoming fall 1862
                    congressional races in the North is slighted. Noe seems more comfortable in explaining the
                    infighting that took place within the respective high commands. Indeed, he sees high-level
                    incompetence and intra-army bickering as the primary reasons for the campaign's failure on
                    both sides. The author sheds no light on whether Bragg saw the campaign as an invasion with
                    political objectives or as a raid.
            Noe's writing style is engaging, and he avoids the grinding battle minutiae that bog down so
                    many Civil War authors. A fascinating final chapter tells of the efforts to establish the
                    battlefield as a park. His research is breathtaking in its scope: many new sources are uncovered.
                    Noe's book eclipses past works on the subject and will 
                    likely stand as the definitive work for a generation. With this addition, Noe clearly has
                    established himself as a significant player among national Civil War historians of the western
                    theater.
            LARRY J. DANIEL, Murray, 
                        Kentucky
                    , is the author of four books on the western theater of the Civil War. His next book,
                        The Days of Glory: The History of the Army of the Cumberland, is forthcoming
                    in 2004.
         
         
            
               Working the Garden: American Writers and the Industrialization of Agriculture.
                    By William Conlogue. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2001. Pp. [ix], 230. Illustrations, table, notes, works cited, index.
                    Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound, $18.95.)
            "In 1860 farmers accounted for 60 per cent of the American workforce; in 1910, 30.5 percent;
                    by 1994, there were too few to warrant a separate census category," according to William
                    Conlogue (p. 3). The decline of the American family farm and the shift to industrial agribusiness
                    has had enormous social, economic, and environmental consequences, but its cultural impact has been
                    insufficiently appreciated. The agrarian pastoral myth has been perpetuated in literature long after
                    an agricultural way of life disappeared in reality. William Conlogue's Working
                        the Garden dispels this nostalgic agrarian myth by demonstrating how the antecedents of
                    modern American industrial agriculture reach well back into the nineteenth century. Through careful
                    readings of American farming novels, Conlogue demonstrates the inadequacy of the pastoral mode in
                    understanding the post-Civil War transformation of American agriculture. Americans held onto the
                    Jeffersonian myth of the yeoman farmer even as family farms were being absorbed into corporate
                    industrial agriculture. The failure to understand such changes in American agriculture, Conlogue
                    argues, has resulted in critical misunderstandings of a number of major American authors, whose
                    works actually demonstrate the decline of the family farm.
            In the transformation of American farming, Conlogue points to the impact of the railroads and the
                    1862 Homestead Act in opening up vast tracts of the Midwest to large-scale
                    "bonanza" wheat farms, whose cheap production of commodity crops forced small
                    eastern farmers out of business. The application of capitalist values and the factory system to
                    American farming resulted in a new model that repudiated community values in favor of an aggressive
                    individualism, and the yeoman farmer was gradually replaced by the capitalist entrepreneur. Conlogue
                    demonstrates how this cultural transformation offers new interpretations of Frank Norris's
                        The Octopus, Willa Cather's O Pioneers!, Ellen 
                        Glasgow
                    's Barren Ground, John Steinbeck's The
                        Grapes of Wrath, Wendell Berry's Remembering, and Jane
                    Smiley's A Thousand Acres. While the debate between family farming and
                    agribusiness may be prominent only in Berry's work, 
                    Conlogue shows convincingly how earlier authors document the gradual industrialization of American
                    agriculture.
            Conlogue's revisionist reading of fiction about American farming is not based on the
                    idealistic pastoral vision of Virgil's Eclogues, but on the more
                    practical and mundane vision of the Georgics. Rather than viewing rural life as an
                    idealized retreat from the city, the georgic mode sees farming as a way of living responsibly in the
                    natural world. The georgic view understands that some alteration of the natural world is inevitable
                    for human survival, but insists that good farming practices must be sustainable and nurturing rather
                    than merely exploitative. We must care about the health and natural appearance of our communities.
                    Conlogue points to the importance of the 1977 debate between Berry and Earl Butz over the future of
                    American agriculture, and he outlines in detail the differences between conventional and alternative
                    agriculture.
            Conlogue's thoughtful analysis of American farming literature gains added credibility from
                    his "Postscript," in which he shares memories of growing up on a small
                    northeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     dairy farm, recalling the pressures to "get big or get out." Working the Garden revises the offen naive and idealistic pastoral vision of
                    American rural life with a georgic vision of a sustainable environmental ethic.
            ANDREW J. ANGYAL is professor of English and environmental studies at Elon University, Elon, 
                        North Carolina
                    , and the author of critical biographies of Loren Eiseley (1983), Lewis Thomas (1989), and Wendell Berry (1995).
         
         
            
               Heaven Below: Early Pentecostals and American Culture. By Grant Wacker. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. xiii, 364. Notes, appendix, index. $35.00.)
            Grant Wacker, who teaches American religious history at Duke University, has written an important
                    historical study with implications for the understanding of contemporary religion in the 
                        United States
                    . Defining culture to include ideas, practices, and institutions, he explores in detail
                    the cultural terrain of the first generation of the Pentecostal movement in America, focusing on the
                    years 1900–1925. This work is based on an astonishing range of documentary sources
                    produced by the more than two hundred different sectarian expressions of the Pentecostal movement in
                    that quarter century. It illuminates the experiences of the founding generation, but also provides
                    insight into contemporary pentecostalism, a religious world estimated to embrace some twenty million
                    Americans.
            Wacker adopts a sympathetic stance towards the religious tradition he examines in great detail,
                    taking it seriously on its own terms, but at the same time expressing freely his critical appraisal
                    of its intentions and accomplishments. At one point early in the volume he describes his method as
                    the compilation of "field notes." That  image
                    may seem strange to some, given the breadth and erudition of the research. But it is instructive in
                    important ways because Wacker organizes his data around a series of primary issues, some drawn
                    directly from the categories of theology, some from the practice of ethnography, and some from the
                    theoretical interests of sociology. There are chapters, for example, dealing with speaking in
                    tongues and testimony, with worship and life customs, and with leaders and women.
            But the substantive center of this volume is Wacker's dual thematic development of what he
                    calls the "primitivism" and the "pragmatism" that characterized
                    the founding generation. The former is the Pentecostal's desire and determination to focus
                    on first principles, on religious basics, on the divine, what Wacker calls "the
                    heavenly." The latter is the inevitable subsequent focus on the everyday, the practical, or
                    earthly concerns. Wacker shows repeatedly how early Pentecostals stated their religious priority as
                    the former, but with the passage of time also turned their attention to the latter. The heavenly and
                    the earthly therefore coexist. Therein lies the rationale behind the title of the book. In each
                    chapter he shows not only these conflicting principles at work, shaping the cultural terrain the
                    Pentecostals inhabited, but also the ways in which these principles still operate among contemporary
                    Pentecostals.
            There have been important books written before about early Pentecostals, and Wacker acknowledges that
                    he is building on that tradition of scholarship. But he has carried the examination of the early
                    Pentecostals to new heights with this volume. This is a highly suggestive study for historians
                    working on other religious traditions, for it demonstrates the value of compiling field notes on
                    primary issues in other religious cultures and then identifying the thematic patterns. Persons
                    especially interested in the religious history of Indiana will find this volume particularly
                    relevant because of the state's numerous Pentecostal groups at the beginning of the
                    twentieth century. Wacker repeatedly cites early Pentecostals in Indiana who were active in that
                    founding generation.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN is Chancellor's Professor of Religious Studies at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is the author of Communities of Dissent: A History of Alternative
                        American Religions (forthcoming).
         
         
            
               Women and Twentieth-Century Protestantism. Edited by Margaret Lamberts Bendroth
                    and 
                        Virginia
                     Lieson Brereton. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xv, 350. Notes, index. Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound,
                    $19.95.).
            Anne Braude, director of the Women in Religion program at 
                        Harvard
                     Divinity School, is known for her conclusion that the history of religion in the 
                        United States
                     is women's history, in that the sig- 
                    nificant majority of the members of churches, synagogues, and other religious organizations have
                    been and are women. In America, women do religion. Hence, the fourteen essays in this volume, all of
                    them focused on the role and place of women in American Protestantism, take up an important aspect
                    of the history of religion in this country. The editors, Margaret Lamberts Bendroth and 
                        Virginia
                     Lieson Brereton, received a generous three-year grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts to
                    coordinate and fund these scholarly projects, and this book represents the final product of their
                    collaborative endeavor.
            Contained here are essays about the Women's Missionary Union of the Southern Baptist
                    Convention; women ministers among Latino Pentecostals; feminist influences within the National
                    Council of Churches; youth groups and their approach to educating and including young women; the
                    Women's Christian Temperance Union in 
                        Japan
                     and among Japanese-Americans; James Dobson's Focus on the Family movement;
                    women within Chinese Protestant churches in the U.S.; the role of women in creating black religious
                    and racial identity; personal devotional practices of Pentecostal women (such as anointed
                    handkerchiefs); national women's missionary organizations; women and faith healing; and the
                    International Association of Women Ministers. Two more theoretical essays take up the role of women
                    in the secularization process, and the ways in which the "feminization" of
                    Protestant churches was understood in the late nineteenth century. How did denominations and the
                    ministers within them view the majority-female membership of their Protestant churches?
            These essays are all well-documented, and most are well-written and clear. All are quite scholarly,
                    so this book may not be the best selection for armchair reading. The endnotes to each essay
                    constitute a gold mine of additional sources and things to read. I recommend this book to anyone
                    particularly interested in one of the topics above.
            BETTY A. DEBERG, professor of religion at the University of Northern 
                        Iowa
                    , Cedar Falls, is a historian of religion and culture in the U.S. She is best known for
                    her study of Protestant fundamentalism and gender, Ungodly Women: Gender and the First
                        Wave of American Fundamentalism (1990; 2000). She is currently researching the practice of
                    women in local Protestant congregations.
         
         
            
               Whitebread Protestants: Food and Religion in American Culture. By Daniel Sack. (
                        New York
                     Palgrave, 2001. Pp. x, 262. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound, $24.95;
                    paperbound, $18.95.)
            Everyone has heard jokes about Lutherans and Jello salad. Daniel Sack, however, has recognized the
                    genuine importance of food in American Protestant religious culture, insightfully observing that
                    "food provides Protestantism with a popular religion" (p. 96). His book is also
                    significant for its attention to white Protestantism as  the
                    "particular religious tradition" (p. 3) of an ethnic group worthy of study. Sack
                    recognizes, too, that social-action practices that some adherents consider self-evidently biblical
                    have recent historical roots. The book is tightly focused, accessibly written, and leavened with
                    gentle wit.
            The author wisely limits himself to a representative selection of topics, using both evangelical and
                    liberal-mainline sources. Chapter 1, "Liturgical Food," discusses two
                    controversies over communion: wine versus grape juice and the common cup versus individual cups.
                    Churches' struggles to adapt to the nineteenth-century temperance movement and sanitation
                    crusade had long-lasting theological repercussions. Chapter 2, "Social Food,"
                    traces the history and meaning of church suppers and coffee hours, including the recent appearance
                    of church "food courts." Social food builds community in a mobile society. It also
                    bears powerful messages about gender roles, habits of consumption, and Christian life.
            Chapter 3, "Emergency Food," examines five food providers—a food bank, a
                    pantry, a downtown mission, a church, and a free café—in one city, 
                        Atlanta
                    . All have ties to Protestantism through founders, members, or supporting institutions,
                    but religion is "covert" (p. 100) in daily practice. Sack outlines processes of
                    institutionalization and responses to changing needs. Chapter 4, "Global Food,"
                    traces interdenominational Protestant involvement in the politics of world hunger. After World War
                    II, Protestant America sought to alleviate world hunger by sharing the surplus of the midwestern
                    "breadbasket." In the early 1970s, however, awareness of the systemic nature of
                    global economics caused a shift to more politicized forms of activism. Chapter 5, "Moral
                    Food," shows how Protestants linked individual diet with moral issues. Nineteenth-century
                    dietary reformers emphasized control of the passions and conformity to divine intention. Their
                    late-twentieth-century counterparts perceived connections between world hunger and western habits of
                    consumption. Here Sack's attention to texts directed at children is especially
                    illuminating.
            The book raises many intriguing questions. I would have enjoyed, for example, a deeper exploration of
                    the quasiliturgical hction of church social events. And what kind of community is fostered by church
                    suppers? What are the implications of maintaining diverse communion practices? Do evangelical and
                    liberal foodways ever differ?
            I sometimes missed a sense of the deeper background to Sack's discussion. For instance, his
                    account omits the early work of Quakers and Mennonites in overseas famine relief, which surely
                    influenced mainliners. Both groups also adopted "moral food" practices in the
                    1970s. Mainline Protestants themselves had drawn connections between whole grains, simple living,
                    and global economics at least as early as the 1930s. Social Gospel thought lies behind
                    evangelicals' and liberationists' attention to systems.
            
            Nonetheless, this is a wonderful book original, careful, and thorough in what it accomplishes. It
                    opens the way to scholarly discussion of an important subject in American religious culture.
            PATRICIA APPELBAUM, Amherst, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , wrote her dissertation on the religious culture of mainline Protestant pacifism. She
                    works for an Episcopal church, where she attends many food-related events.
         
         
            
               Ralph W. Yarborough, The People's Senator. By Patrick L. Cox. (Austin:
                    University of 
                        Texas
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xx, 348. Notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            The "patron saint of 
                        Texas
                     liberals" (p. xv), Ralph W. Yarborough is the focus of this revised and
                    expanded dissertation from the University of 
                        Texas
                     at Austin. Readers unfamiliar with the story—or familiar only with the most
                    prominent 
                        Texas
                     liberal, Lyndon B. Johnson—will learn much about 
                        Texas
                     liberalism. But Patrick L. Cox's biography overplays Yarborough's
                    accomplishments and only partly reveals how he achieved his liberal goals. The book also indicates,
                    perhaps contrary to Cox's intention, why the liberal movement in 
                        Texas
                     was as weak as it was.
            Yarborough's leadership and political style undermined his attempts to bring social justice
                    to 
                        Texas
                     and America. He won only three of nine statewide races during his political career. He
                    exhibited a tendency to go it alone and to fight when he might have compromised, and he found it
                    difficult to delegate responsibilities during campaigns, which hindered his effectiveness. Cox
                    establishes that Yarborough was "one of a kind," that he employed an
                    "evangelical style" (p. xvii) that worked in his favorite
                    arena—speaking before live audiences—but which played less well over the radio
                    and later television; thus, he shunned the trend towards the use of personality politics that
                    emerged in 
                        Texas
                     and America in the 1930s and after. Yarborough based his political appeal on his
                    rhetorical skills; yet Cox does not furnish extended quotations to establish what it was about his
                    rhetoric that attracted voters and supporters. Similarly, Cox asserts that Yarborough was the
                    "chief engineer" of the Great Society programs, but he never shows how Yarborough
                    achieved his goals—the reader never gets a sense of how the senator worked with northern
                    liberals; surely he had a different style from the arm-twisting approach of LBJ. Instead, Cox
                    focuses on Yarborough's conflicts with other 
                        Texas
                     politicians, especially John Connally and LBJ.
            Cox has done the required research, but the sources in 
                        Texas
                     are often less revealing than they might be. Oral history also anchors Cox's
                    analyses, and here there is a sense that the interviewees (including Yarborough) were not always
                    forthcoming. This results in a murky analysis of Yarborough's position on race and civil
                    rights. By the 1960s, Yarborough was firmly behind the civil rights move-  ment; before that, however, Cox is unable to clearly show how, why, and
                    when Yarborough overcame his East 
                        Texas
                     racism. Cox is more effective in illustrating Yarborough's change of heart
                    over North 
                        Vietnam
                     and in tying Yarborough's early career as a state lawyer to his successes in
                    establishing national parks and promoting environmental legislation.
            Despite the shortcomings, this book should be consulted by those interested in how liberalism
                    operated in 
                        Texas
                    . Combined with the numerous studies of Lyndon Johnson, this biography not only reveals
                    why liberalism never dominated in 
                        Texas
                    , but also suggests that 
                        Texas
                     liberals contributed to national efforts to use the government to bring about social
                    justice.
            WILLIAM R. CHILDS, associate professor of history at 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Columbus
                    , has recently completed a book manuscript on the history of the 
                        Texas
                     Railroad Commission and its interaction with other state and national regulatory
                    commissions from the 1890s to the mid-twentieth century.
         
         
            
               Nixon's Civil Rights: Politics, Principle, and Policy. By Dean J.
                    Kotlowski. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. x, 404. Notes, select bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)
            Nothing has been so momentous in modern American social history as the civil rights movement, and in
                    that movement, no single person has been so significant or so enigmatic as Richard Mil-house Nixon.
                    Spokesman for a cynical and divisive "Southern Strategy," Nixon consciously
                    employed appeals to the basest racism in southerners in his 1968 and 1972 presidential campaigns;
                    and of course this campaign rhetoric found its appeal in border states like Indiana as well as in
                    the Deep South. Yet, the Nixon record is remarkable: millions, not thousands, of black children
                    entering integrated public schools; a steady rise in income and educational levels in both absolute
                    and relative terms for all African Americans; a forceful and unprecedented integration of the
                    previously segregated labor ranks of construction and building trades; "set aside"
                    programs for minority-owned small businesses in lucrative federal building projects; affirmative
                    action, especially as applied to the previously untouched professional class in the academy,
                    government, and corporate management; and a dramatic expansion of the very concept of civil rights
                    to include women and Native Americans and other "outside" groups in an insightful
                    and epochal multicultural (rather than simply black-and-white) perspective.
            In an impressively researched work, Dean J. Kotlowski tries to set Nixon and his people into
                    meaningful context by defining the principles of "Nixonians," noting where his
                    predecessors had gotten us, what he was attempting to accomplish politically, then marking the
                    resulting policy.
            
            The main policy change that Kotlowski finds is the shift from integration in a black-white context to
                    a focus on economics in the context of many different identity groups. The author is at pains to
                    show genuine advances in educational and employment opportunities for that subclass of African
                    Americans who can be identified as "Nixonians" (middling-level, small-business
                    figures who generally describe themselves as "self-made" and who emphasize
                    education and a level playing field), and he is correct to link these achievements to
                    Nixon's principles. As for politics, he is most astute in pointing out how political
                    considerations virtually hamstrung more obviously liberal predecessors.
            Kotlowski has used written documents (voluminous despite Nixon's famed secrecy), interviews
                    with principals, contemporaneous—and deeply contentious—press coverage, and
                    the unremitting lava flow of Nixon scholarship set off by his volcanic career. The result is highly
                    readable, useful in the undergraduate classroom, and eye-opening even for those who think themselves
                    already well-informed. The only caveat this correspondent offers is that the conclusion has a rather
                    grudging tone, perhaps reflective of Nixon himself, in which both the many flaws and the many
                    achievements of the man and his men are muddled and smudged after the painstaking and sharply limned
                    preceding chapters. No matter, this study is a must-buy and a must-read.
            JOHN HERBERT ROPER is Richardson Professor of American history at Emory and Henry College,
                    Emory, 
                        Virginia
                    , and is author of Repairing the March of Mars (2001), an edited
                    collection of diary entries by John Samuel Apperson, a hospital steward in the Stonewall
                Brigade.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
