
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 076, Issue 1, pages 1-84. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:076+issue:1+year:1980&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Hoosier Brethren and the Origins of the Restoration Movement
            
                    David B. Eller⋆
               
                
            Frontier Indiana was a patchwork of competing religious views and interests. The Great 
                        Kentucky
                     Revival at Cane Ridge in 1801 had set the dominant spiritual mood for evangelical
                    Protestants, and in the years following Cane Ridge the fires of revival had swept across the
                        Ohio Valley. In the Hoosier state, as in the rest of the Midwest, the
                    result was a tremendous increase in adherents to such sects as the Methodists and Baptists who were
                    ready and able to serve up religion warm, if not hot.
            An important part of the story of the growth of evangelical Protestantism in the Ohio
                        Valley was the rise of the Disciples movement, popularly known as the
                    "Restoration" because of its emphasis on restoring simple or
                    "primitive" New Testament Christianity as the norm for faith and practice. The
                    Disciples are usually said to have been inspired by Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , a Presbyterian turned Baptist reformer, and Barton W. Stone, a veteran of Cane Ridge.
                    Working independently before 1832 and cooperatively thereafter, these two pioneer ministers led a
                    reform crusade which resulted in the formation of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) by
                    about 1840. In Indiana, however, Restoration activities previous to the mid-1830s were indigenous
                    and largely independent of Stone and 
                        Campbell
                    .1
            
            Although historians of the Disciples of Christ have long recognized the significant contributions of
                    the German Baptist Brethren, or Dunkers, to Restoration reforms in southern Indiana, their accounts
                    have usually been vague as to the congregations involved, their location, origin, and leadership.
                    Brethren 
                  
                     ⋆ David B. Eller is associate professor of history,
                            Bluffton College, Bluffton, 
                                Ohio
                            .
                  
                     1 The best study of the Indiana Restoration movement is Henry K. Shaw,
                                Hoosier Disciples: A Comprehensive History of the Christian Churches
                                (Disciples of Christ) in Indiana (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1966), esp. 19-111.
               
                     writers, who until recently were apparently unaware that several
                    of their congregations merged into the Restoration movement, have not clarified this picture.
                    However, a comparison of Disciples source materials with those of the Brethren reveals an explicit
                    relationship between the two groups.2 And an understanding of the tradition and
                    religious views of the German Baptist Brethren helps to place their involvement with the Disciples
                    in its proper perspective.
            The German Baptists of the early nineteenth century were a closed, noncreedal, pietist, and
                    anabaptist sect of European origin. Refugees of this group arrived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     as early as 1719. Like their Mennonite neighbors, with whom they were often confused,
                    the Brethren grew and prospered in America. At least thirty congregation-communities were
                    established before the Revolution, primarily in 
                  Pennsylvania, Maryland
               , and
                    the Carolinas.3
            
            The Brethren were distinguished from other religious groups by several important characteristics,
                    perhaps the most significant of which was their form of baptism. The Brethren insisted on trine
                    (i.e., thrice repeated) immersion, with face forward, in flowing water. It was from this practice
                    that the popular designation Dunker, or Dunkard, was derived. Most Baptist groups, by contrast,
                    immersed once, face backwards.4 Another unique practice of the Brethren was
                    their observance of love feast. This church ordinance was patterned after the last meal which Jesus
                    ate with his disciples in the upper room in Jerusalem (John 13). It consisted of the washing of
                    feet, a 
                  
                     2 One of the first discussions of Brethren contributions to Disciples
                            beginnings in Indiana was H. Clay Trusty, "Formation of the Christian Church in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, VI (March, 1910), 17-32.
                            Commodore Wesley Cauble, Disciples of Christ in Indiana: Achievements of a
                                Century (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930), 30-38; and Shaw, Hoosier Disciples, 48-51, 79-82,
                            treated the role of the Brethren in somewhat more detail. The standard treatment of the
                            Brethren in Indiana is Otho Winger, History of the Church of the Brethren in
                                Indiana (Elgin, Ill., 1917). Winger does not mention any of the congregations
                            herein discussed or the Brethren relationship to the Disciples movement. Roger Sappington,
                            ed., The Brethren in the New Nation: A Source Book on the Development of the
                                Church of the Brethren, 1785-1865 (Elgin, Ill., 1976), 114-22, contains source
                            materials on Brethren involvement with the Disciples, much of it focusing on Indiana.
                  
                     3 An excellent volume of source materials on the Brethren in colonial
                            America is Donald F. Durnbaugh, ed., The Brethren in Colonial America: A Source
                                Book on the Transplantation and Development of the Church of the Brethren in the
                                Eighteenth Century (Elgin, Ill., 1967). Pages 172-91 contain a statistical ordering
                            of congregations made in 1770-1772 by Morgan Edwards, a Baptist historian.
                  
                     4 For a description of this form of baptism and a discussion of its
                            importance for nineteenth-century Brethren see Sappington, Brethren in the New
                                Nation, 131-68.
               
                     fellowship meal (the Lord's Supper), and communion with
                    bread and wine. Love feast was held over a weekend, usually once or twice a year, and was one of the
                    most important gatherings of the church.5
            
            Several other characteristics made the Brethren a distinct people. They practiced nonresistance
                    (defenseless pacifism) with regard to the state and civil authority. They developed an Annual
                    Meeting, composed of representatives from each congregation, to decide matters of polity and
                    doctrine. Like the Quakers and Mennonites, the Brethren also wore plain dress, which included
                    bonnets and prayer coverings for the sisters and beards and broad-brimmed hats for the men. In
                    addition, most Brethren in the early nineteenth century remained German in culture and preferred
                    sectarian isolation to integration with the mainstream of American society.6
            
            As was the case with many religious groups, Brethren were quick to move west with the frontier
                    following the American Revolution. Dunker families had crossed the Allegheny
                    Mountains into 
                        Kentucky
                     shortly before 1790. 
                        Ohio
                     had organized congregations by 1802, Indiana by 1809, and 
                        Illinois
                     by 1815. Certain areas of southwest 
                        Ohio
                     and north central Indiana became centers of Brethren activity in the mid-and
                    late-nineteenth century.7 As many as fifteen Dunker congregations across the
                        Ohio Valley may have joined the Restoration movement, and it is likely that
                    most of these churches were located in southern Indiana.8
            
            In contrast to most other pioneer Brethren congregations in 
                        Ohio
                     or in other regions of the Hoosier state, Dunker congregations in southern Indiana had
                    family roots in 
                  North Carolina, Kentucky
               , or both.9 For example, Olive
                    Branch, which may have had preaching services as early as 1803, had 
                  
                     5 The love feast is described in ibid., 168-77.
                  
                     6 Floyd E. Mallott, Studies in Brethren History
                            (Elgin, Ill., 1954), 149-63, 245-56, 267-74. A popular account of the Brethren in the 1840s
                            is James H. Lehman, The Old Brethren (Elgin, Ill., 1976).
                  
                     7 Sappington, Brethren in the New Nation, 15-102;
                            Mallott, Studies in Brethren History, 112-48.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Madison
                             Evans, Biographical Sketches of the Pioneer Preachers of
                            Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1862), 32. Not all of these fifteen congregations can be located or otherwise
                            identified. Included in this figure may be Brethren congregations that joined the
                            Restoration movement in 
                                Kentucky
                             and 
                                Ohio
                            . See David B. Eller, "Peter Hon of East Union," Brethren Life and Thought, XVIII (Spring, 1972), 5-12.
                  
                     9 Most Brethren pioneers in the Ohio Valley came
                            from 
                        Pennsylvania, Maryland
                     , or 
                                Virginia
                            . See Winger, History of the Brethren in Indiana, 15-16;
                            Mallott, Studies in Brethren History, 119-20; and Lester H. Binnie,
                            "Migration of Early German Baptist Brethren within the 
                                United States
                            ," The Palatine
                  
               
                    
                    
                  BRETHREN RESTORATION CONGREGATIONNS Map prepared by David B. Eller.
               
                     definite ties to 
                        North Carolina
                    . The church was located in present-day Owen Township, 
                        Clark County
                    , a short distance from the 
                        Ohio River
                    . Jacob Stutzman, a Dunker minister from 
                  Randolph
                            county, North Carolina
               , settled in this
                    area in 1802. Other families from Stutzman's former congregational area on the Uwharry
                    River in 
                        North Carolina
                    , including most of his large family, joined him in Indiana by 1806.10
            
            Two of the earliest and largest Dunker churches in the Hoosier state were located to the west of
                    Olive Branch in 
                        Orange
                     and Lawrence counties. The Lost River congregation in Orleans Township, 
                        Orange County
                    , was organized in 1819 by Brethren who had moved to this area from 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               . These families included the Hostetlers, Leather-mans, Sniders, and
                    Hardmans. To the north of Lost River was the White River church, located in
                    Indian Creek Township, Lawrence County, and organized about 1821. Important families identified with
                    this congregation included the Kerns, Ribelins, and Sears. Both the Kern and Sears families were
                    from Nicholas and Bourbon counties, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and prior to that from Rowan County, 
                        North Carolina
                    . The Sears family had moved to the White River area by way of 
                        Harrison County
                    ,
            
               
                  Immigrant, V (Summer, 1979), 6-7. Sappington, Brethren in the
                            New Nation, 29-53, was one of the first to call attention to the importance of Brethren
                        migration from the South into 
                            Kentucky
                         and the Midwest. See also David B. Eller, "The Brethren in the Western
                            Ohio Valley, 1790-1850: German Baptist Settlement and Frontier
                        Accommodation" (Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of History, Miami University, 1976), 153-76,
                        for a more detailed discussion of the southern background and origins of the Olive Branch, Lost
                        River, and White River churches.
               
                  10 Traditional Brethren interpretation is that the Four Mile church,
                        organized in 1809 in present-day Union Country, is the oldest Dunker church in the state.
                        Winger, Brethren in Indiana, 59-60. The evidence presented in the text,
                        however, suggests that Olive Branch may have preceded it. The Olive Branch meetinghouse was
                        built in 1821 and located a short distance northeast of Jacob Stutzman's land. Christian Record, IV (April, 1847), 293-94, IV (June, 1847), 365-67; Deed Book
                        26, pp. 401-402, County Clerk's Office, 
                            Clark County
                         Courthouse, 
                            Jeffersonville
                        , Indiana. The congregation is also described in History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties with Illustrations and Biographical
                        Sketches (2 vols., 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1882), II, 379. Stutzman's 
                            North Carolina
                         ministry is briefly discussed in Roger E. Sappington, "Dunker Beginnings
                        in 
                            North Carolina
                         in the Eighteenth Century," 
                     
                                North Carolina
                             Historical Review, XLVI (July, 1969), 224-28. Stutzman's family
                        is described in John Scott Davenport, "A Multiple Census-Based Ordering of the Family
                        of Jacob Stutzman (Sr.), Wife Barbara, the Dunker Minister Who Served the Uwharrie Congregation,
                        N.C., 1764-1801," typewritten manuscript dated December 12, 1971, pp. 1-5. A photocopy
                        of this manuscript is in the possession of the author of this article. Davenport's
                        research on the immigration of 
                            North Carolina
                         Brethren into the Ohio Valley has been of invaluable
                        assistance in preparing this study. Unfortunately, there is little in the 
                            Clark County
                         records or in local tradition which sheds light on the religious activities of the
                        Stutzman family in Indiana prior to 1820.
            
            
            Indiana, where Brethren had previously formed the Bethel church in present-day Morgan Township. The
                    Foutz and Hon families were also associated with the Bethel congregation. In addition to Olive
                    Branch, Lost River, White River, and Bethel, there were also Brethren
                    settlements of southern background in Jackson, 
                  Washington, Monroe
               , and possibily
                    Dubois counties before 1825.11
            
            The merger of the Brethren from southern Indiana with the Disciples movement was a gradual process
                    which took place in two stages. The first of these was the formation of an association of
                    congregations independent of the Annual Meeting. The second was contact between leaders of the
                    association and those of the emerging Restoration movement.
            Although all Brethren were supposedly unified by the Annual Meeting, close family ties, and traveling
                    senior ministers called elders, the congregations in southern Indiana, because of their location and
                    southern background, lacked adequate communication with other frontier Dunker congregations or the
                    Annual Meeting. One Restoration source suggests that about 1820 the Brethren in southern Indiana
                    formed themselves into an "Association" independent of the Annual Meeting because
                    they were "unwilling to conform to all the rules observed by the brethren in
                            
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania
                and other states."12
                    Brethren records indicate that at about this same time a group led by Adam Hostetler of 
                        Kentucky
                     was removed from fellowship by the eastern church. It seems clear that the
                    "Hostetler party" formed the basis of the independent Association with
                    congregations in 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , and Indiana. The number of members in this schismatic
                    group has been estimated by some Brethren writers as high as fifteen hundred.13
            
            
               
                  11
                        History of Lawrence, 
                                Orange
                             and 
                                Washington
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 544, 222; William H. Roose, Indiana's Birthplace: A
                            History of 
                                Harrison County
                            , Indiana (rev. ed. by Arville L. Funk; 
                            Chicago
                        , 1966), 28; History of Jackson County, Indiana: From the Earliest Time
                            to the Present … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1886), 442-43; Sappington, Brethren in the New Nation, 44-46.
                        The pioneer Brethren congregations nearest to this cluster were Four Mile (1809) and Nettle
                        Creek (1820) to the northeast in Union and 
                            Wayne
                         counties and Raccoon Creek (1827) to the north in 
                            Putnam
                         and 
                            Montgomery
                         counties. These congregations probably had little or no contact with those
                        mentioned in the text.
               
                  12 Evans, Biographical Sketches of the Pioneer
                        Preachers, 63. Joseph 
                            Franklin
                         and J.A. Headington, The Life and Times of Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            
                   (
                            St. Louis
                        , 1879), 163-64, suggests that the independent Brethren group broke away over the
                        question of single immersion baptism. Such a conclusion is, however, unlikely. See note 22
                        below.
               
                  13 Abraham Harley Cassel, "Some Account of the Origin &
                        History of the Far Western and Congregational Brethren also, of Eldr. [Elder] Rule and A.M.
                        [Annual Meeting] Supremacy," June 7, 1886, Cassel Collection (Juniata College,
                                
                     Huntington, Pennsylvania
                  ).
            
            
            Unfortunately, very little is known about Adam Hostetler. Originally from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , he settled in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               , in 1794 with his parents and other
                    married brothers and sisters. At that time he and his father, Christian Hostetler (Hochstetler),
                    were already ministers in the Dunker faith, the father preaching in German and the son in English.
                    In 1825, after an extensive itinerant ministry among Brethren settlements in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , the younger Hostetler moved to the Olive Branch community in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana. He died there in 1826.14
            
            For reasons which are not known, Adam Hostetler and Peter Hon, a young minister from Nicholas County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , began to spread "strange doctrine" which was not in keeping with
                    Brethren tradition. While existing Brethren records are vague, it is evident that Hostetler and Hon
                    were expelled from the church sometime between 1816 and 1820. One source suggests that at least two
                    church councils were held on the Hostetler-Hon controversy. The first met in 1820 in Muhlenberg
                    County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and a second sometime later at Adam Hostetler's home in 
                  Shelby County, Kentucky
               . Brethren leaders from the eastern church attended both meetings.
                    Hostetler and his followers faced several charges, including one which stated that they had become
                    "too zealous in religious excitements," which more than likely suggests the
                    sympathy of western Brethren for frontier revivalism.15 Other issues included
                    both Hostetler's and Hon's failure to conform to the standards of the Annual
                    Meeting regarding plain dress, their acceptance of slave ownership among Brethren, and their use of
                    an innovative and unacceptable procedure for feet washing during the love feast.16
            
            Another Brethren source indicates that Hostetler and Hon were expelled from the church at a council
                    held in Muhlenberg County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1816. The issues before this meeting 
                  
                     14 Harvey Hostetler, Descendants of Jacob Hochstetler,
                                the Immigrant of 1736 (Elgin, Ill., 1912; reprint ed., Berlin, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1970), 869; John Henry Moore, Some Brethren Pathfinders
                            (Elgin, Ill., 1929), 71, 74-76. It is assumed that Hostetler resided in 
                                Kentucky
                             until his move to the Olive Branch community. He owned land in both Jackson and 
                                Washington
                             counties, Indiana, but is not listed in the 1820 Indiana census. Deed Book 25,
                            p. 20, 
                                Clark County
                             Courthouse; Deed Book C, p. 250, County Clerk's Office, 
                                Washington County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana; and Deed Book A, p. 1, County Clerk's Office, Jackson County
                            Courthouse, Brownstown, Indiana. Hostetler is buried in the Olive Branch cemetery.
                  
                     15 Cassel, "Some Account of the Far Western
                            Brethren."
                  
                     16
                            Ibid. See also Moore, Brethren Pathfinders, 89-90; and
                            Martin Grove Brumbaugh, A History of the German Baptist Brethren in Europe and
                                America (Mount Morris, Ill., 1899), 535-36.
               
                     were not given except that Hostetler and Hon were thought to have
                    followed in the heretical footsteps of one John Ham. The identity of Ham is obscure. He was
                    supposedly an eighteenth-century 
                        North Carolina
                     Dunker leader who openly preached the final restoration of all souls from hell, or
                    "universalism." Ham and his sympathizers were placed out of the church by the
                    Annual Meeting of 1797. Some of them later moved to the Green River country in 
                  Warren County, Kentucky
               . Universalist, or "restitution," ideas were widely
                    held among the frontier Brethren in western 
                  Kentucky, Illinois
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    .17
            
            Universalism, however, was probably not a significant factor in the formation of the independent
                    Brethren Association in Indiana. Of the churches in this group, only Olive Branch seems to have had
                    connections with universalists and may have embraced universalist doctrine. The Stutzman family had
                    close associations with Brethren universalism in 
                        North Carolina
                    . Adam Bower, who had had contacts with the Stutzmans and other Brethren in 
                        North Carolina
                    , moved near the Olive Branch community in 1805. He had "universalist
                    preaching" in his Indiana home as early as 1812.18
            
            In any event by 1820 the Hostetler Brethren were in disagreement with Annual Meeting Brethren over a
                    variety of issues concerning both doctrine and practice. It was not long, however, before the
                    Association itself was embroiled in a controversy over the form or mode of baptism. Peter Hon and
                    Abraham Kern of the White River church began to advocate and employ a single
                    action immersion rather than the customary dipping three times.19 When this
                    shift in practice began is not known. It may have dated from the very beginnings of the Association,
                    perhaps even earlier. The reasons for the change 
                  
                     17 John Wolfe, "Pioneer History," Brethren at Work, VII (February 22, 1882), 4. See also Moore, Brethren Pathfinders, 74-76; and Henry R. Holsinger, Holsinger's History of the Tunkers and the Brethren Church (Lathrop,
                            Calif., 1901), 762-64, 219-26. Wolfe supposedly obtained his information from
                            "minutes" of the 1816 council which had been attended by his pioneer
                            minister father, George Wolfe (1780-1865). For more on John Ham see Roger E. Sappington,
                            "Two Eighteenth Century Dunker Congregations in 
                                North Carolina
                            ," 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Review, XLVII (April, 1970), 192-99. See also John Scott
                            Davenport, "The Quest for the Identity of John H., Banned Carolina Dunker Who Took
                            Universalism West," typewritten manuscript dated 1977, pp. 19ff. A photocopy of
                            this manuscript is in the possession of the author of this article. Davenport suggests that
                            a more logical and definable candidate for the "John H." expelled by
                            Annual Meeting is John Hendricks, not John Ham. Hendricks was a Dunker universalist pioneer
                            minister active in 
                        North Carolina, Kentucky
                     , and 
                                Missouri
                            .
                  
                     18 Durnbaugh, Brethren in Colonial America, 330; History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities, II, 416.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Franklin
                             and Headington, The Life and Times of Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                
                     , 163-64; and Evans, Pioneer Preachers, 32.
               
                     are also not clear. It is possible that both Hon and Kern were
                    influenced in 
                        Kentucky
                     by the more numerous Baptists.
            Interestingly enough, the Brethren Annual Meeting of 1821, which assembled in 
                  Somerset county, Pennsylvania
               , addressed itself to the single immersion problem. The existing
                    minutes do not record which congregation sent the following query, but it could well have originated
                    out of the unrest in southern Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Article six of the minutes questioned "Whether members (persons) might be
                    received into the church who have been but once immersed (without rebaptizing them in the manner we
                    believe it ought to be done according to the gospel)?"20 The answer of
                    the meeting is surprising, perhaps, in that it indicated flexibility on the part of the eastern
                    leadership. After affirming that trine immersion was the true baptism, the Brethern decided that
                    "if such persons would be content with their baptism and yet acknowledge the
                    Brethren's order as right, we would leave it over to them and receive them with the laying
                    on of hands and prayer."21 This answer does not suggest that ministers
                    were permitted to employ a single-action immersion. It may have been, however, a gesture of
                    reconciliation to the western Bethren. Those baptized by Hon and Kern could remain in full
                    fellowship with the brotherhood if the traditional practice was affirmed as correct. If the decision
                    of the Annual Meeting was indeed such a gesture, it met with no known reply. So powerful was the
                    move toward single immersion within the western Association that by 1826 its advocates completely
                    dominated the independent group.
            It was at approximately this point in time, around 1827, that John Wright of 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, leader of a small group of independent Baptist churches, suggested a merger
                    between his group and the Dunkers.22 This action marks the beginning of the
                    second stage in the transition of the 
                  
                     20
                            Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the Church of the Brethren; Containing All
                                Available Minutes from 1778 to 1909 (Elgin, Ill., 1909), 45. There is no direct
                            mention in these minutes of Adam Hostetler's expulsion or of the formation of an
                            independent Association of Brethren in southern Indiana and 
                                Kentucky
                            . The phrases in parentheses are most likely editorial clarifications by Henry
                            Kurtz, a frequent clerk of the Annual Meeting who published the first edition of minutes in
                            1867.
                  
                            21
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     22 An alternative sequence suggests that Wright proposed union with
                            the Brethren several years earlier, about 1822, but clearly after the question of
                            single-immersion baptism had been settled. The Brethren agreed, called themselves
                            "Christians," and formed a new organization with the Baptists. In this
                            sequence the ministry of Joseph Hostetler, discussed below, would have taken
               
                    
                    
                  
                            JOSEPH HOSTETLER
                        
                  Reproduced from 
                                Madison
                             Evans, Biographical Sketches of the Pioneer Preachers of
                            Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1862), 56.
                Brethren into the Restoration movement. The necessary preparation for Wright's
                    proposal, however, had taken place previously within the Association under the leadership of Joseph
                    Hostetler, a minister in the Lost Creek congregation and a nephew of Adam Hostetler. More was at
                    issue than the mode of baptism. The very identity of the southern Indiana Brethren as a distinctive
                    religious group was in question.
            More is known about Joseph Hostetler than about any other minister in the Association. Born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , he moved to Indiana in 1818, when he was already a licensed preacher in 
                  place within the context of an already combined Dunker-Baptist association, which is
                            unlikely. For varying interpretations of these events see Evans, Pioneer
                                Preachers, 32-33, 66-67; Trusty, "Formation of the Christian Church in
                            Indiana," 19-20; Cauble, Disciples of Christ in Indiana, 34; and
                            Eugene B. Scofield, "Indiana," in John T. Brown, Churches of
                                Christ: A Historical, Biographical, and Pictorial History of the Churches (
                                Louisville
                            , 1904), 217-18. The reconstruction of events in Shaw, Hoosier
                                Disciples, 49-51, 78, seems most accurate. It is clear that the Brethren merged
                            with the Baptists before the Edinburgh unity meeting of 1828, discussed below.
               
                the Brethren fraternity. After settling in 
                        Orange County
                     he was ordained in 1821 by his uncle, Adam, during an annual gathering of the newly
                    formed Association. Young Joseph was known as the "boy preacher," and he
                    apparently had considerable powers of persuasion. Between 1821 and 1825 he is believed to have
                    visited several Brethren communities, baptizing over one hundred converts. This period in his life
                    was also marked by intense spiritual searching and personal study. One result was a growing
                    dissatisfaction with Dunker sectarianism, a dissatisfaction which became intensified by his reading
                    of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    's monthly periodical, the Christian Baptist.
               23
            
            Published from 1823 to 1829, the Christian Baptist was an early voice of the
                    Restoration movement and reflected its founder's criticism of narrow, sectarian, Baptist
                    practices. 
                        Campbell
                     and his supporters discarded denominational names, believing that
                    "Christian" was sufficient title for the converted. They taught primitive, New
                    Testament Christianity as the only rule of faith and practice, baptism by immersion for believers
                    only and as necessary for the remission of sin, weekly observance of communion (the Lord's
                    Supper), and local congregational autonomy. 
                        Campbell
                     believed that higher levels of church government, such as the Brethren's
                    Annual Meeting, were without biblical authority and should be purely advisory.24
            
            A letter written by Joseph Hostetler to 
                        Campbell
                     in December, 1825, reflects not only the young preacher's searching but also
                    the rapid growth of membership within the Association.
                  
                     
                        A sincere desire to know the truth as it is in Christ, is the sole cause of these
                                    lines…. I belong to a church called "German Baptists,"
                                    sometimes 
                              
                                 23 A biographical sketch of Joseph Hostetler is given
                                            in Evans, Pioneer Preachers, 57-73. Evans'
                                            account must be considered primary data. Hostetler was living in 
                                                Illinois
                                             when Pioneer Preachers was published in 1862,
                                            and he contributed a short address to his "dear brethren"
                                            at the conclusion of Evans' sketch. On page 6 of the book Evans
                                            states: "The materials for the work have been obtained, chiefly,
                                            from the surviving pioneers—to whom the author acknowledges his
                                            obligations—and the facts, incidents, and in most instances the
                                            dates may be confidently relied upon."
                              
                                 24 Much valuable information on 
                                                Campbell
                                             and his ideas may be found in Robert Richardson, ed., Memoirs of Alexander 
                                                    Campbell
                                                
                                  (2 vols., 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1869-1870). The standard history of the Disciples is William
                                            E. Tucker and Lester G. McAllister, Journey in Faith: A History
                                                of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) (
                                                St. Louis
                                            , 1975). Also helpful is James D. Murch, Christians
                                                Only: A History of the Restoration Movement (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1962). For a brief discussion of the influence of the Christian Baptist on the early Restoration movement, see
                                            Winfred E. Garrison and Alfred T. DeGroot, The Disciples of
                                                Christ: A History (
                                                St. Louis
                                            , 1948), 175-79.
                           
                                     "Dunkards," whose government
                                    is the New Testament only. They are not the same in principle or faith with those of
                                    the old connection in 
                              Pennsylvania, Virginia,
                                            Maryland
                           , and 
                                        Ohio
                                    ; but an order that took rise from them in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , by one Teacher [Adam Hostetler], in 
                                        Shelby
                                     about six years ago, amounting now to about two thousand, having about
                                    24 teachers, and increasing fast. Our views of Christianity you expressed in the Christian Baptist vol 2d, … and in the whole second
                                    volume I do not see anything to divide us in sentiment, though I do not approve of
                                    some things in your 1st and 3d volumes.25
                        
                     
                  
               Hostetler went on to question 
                        Campbell
                     on several points of doctrine. Why, for example, did not he, as an advocate of
                    primitive Christianity, practice feetwashing and the holy kiss of charity or observe communion at
                    night, following the apostolic (and Brethren) practice? Reflecting the debate within the
                    Association, Hostetler also asked for 
                        Campbell
                    's opinion on trine immersion baptism. "I yet think it [trine
                    immersion] is the proper action of baptism, and think that it should not be performed transversely,
                    but forwards, in the most humble manner of obedience."26
            
            
               
                        Campbell
                     lost little time in replying to the concerns expressed. Although Hostetler specifically
                    requested a personal response, 
                        Campbell
                     printed both the letter and his answer in the Christian Baptist. His
                    basic point was that many Brethren practices, such as the holy kiss and feetwashing, were social
                    customs of the apostolic church and not rituals required for discipleship. He also expressed his
                    preference for single immersion since baptism in the New Testament is spoken of as one act.27
            
            Hostetler's biographer recorded the young Brethren's overall reaction to 
                        Campbell
                     and the Christian Baptist in this way: 
                        he read with eagerness though not with entire approbation; for being yet identified with a
                            sect he felt that the blows descended too fast and too heavy. But still the light entered;
                            the faith once delivered to the saints and long obscured by the traditions of men, became
                            more and more apparent; objections to creeds and sects continued to be multiplied; until he
                            found it impossible to refrain from a full and public avowal of his sentiments.28
                  
                     It seems evident that Hostetler was persuaded by 
                        Campbell
                    's logic and soon adjusted his doctrinal perspective.
            Accordingly, in the spring of 1826, Hostetler announced that he would preach on "primitive
                    Christianity" at a specified 
                  
                     25 J[oseph] H[ostetler], "To the Editor," Christian Baptist, III (March 6, 1826), 162-63.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     27 A[lexander] C[ampbell], "Reply to the Above," ibid., 163-67.
                  
                     28 Evans, Pioneer Preachers, 64.
               
                     day and time at Orleans, 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana. A crowd, perhaps generously estimated at one thousand and including several
                    of his fellow Dunker ministers, gathered for the address. For an hour and a half the boy preacher
                    spoke on the theme that "the disciples were called Christian first at An-tioch."
                    In doing so he squarely placed himself in sympathy with 
                        Campbell
                    's emerging Restoration movement. So powerful was his preaching that the
                    audience was moved against the use of denominational names. Some of the Brethren ministers, however,
                    were not so easily convinced. Hostetler was informed that he would face stern charges at the next
                    yearly meeting of the Association. Not wanting to leave the decision of that body to chance, he
                    undertook a personal visit to each member congregation explaining his position.29
            
            Evidence suggests that the Association meeting of 1826 took place in August at the 
                        Somerset
                     Creek (East Union) meetinghouse, which was Peter Hon's home congregation in
                    Nicholas County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The irony of the occasion must have been apparent to some. An independent Brethren
                    association, formed after the expulsion of Adam Hostetler from the Annual Meeting church for holding
                    non-Brethren views, now listened to his nephew explain why a Brethren identity should be altogether
                    terminated. Young Joseph Hostetler so completely vindicated himself of all charges that he was asked
                    to deliver the main address at the next annual gathering of the Association. He reportedly thought
                    to himself: "This day death passed upon this ecclesiastical body. About this time next year
                    it will breathe its last; and my discourse shall be its funeral."30
            
            It was apparently at the yearly Association meeting of 1827 that John Wright and his brother, Peter,
                    of the Blue River Baptists came to the Brethren with their plea of unity.
                    Joseph Hostetler no doubt delivered his "funeral discourse." Adam Hostetler, who
                    had been the strongest Brethren preacher of the previous generation and who might conceivably have
                    been in a position to influence the Brethren away from reforms inspired by 
                        Campbell
                    , had died the previous September. The Dunkers and the Baptists agreed to form one
                    fraternal organization and to call themselves "Christians." John Wright then
                    proposed that the new coalition consider merger with the New 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 65.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 66; Margret Kern Garrard, The Family of Conrad
                            Kern (n.p., 1968), 38.
               
                     Lights, and he was authorized to undertake correspondence with
                    them for this purpose.31
            
            Frontier New Light Christian churches are difficult to define precisely. One such group, based in 
                        Kentucky
                     and led by Barton W. Stone, emerged out of the Great 
                        Kentucky
                     Revival. Other unrelated and independent "old Christian" movements,
                    primarily Methodist and Baptist in background, were active in New 
                  England, Virginia
               , and 
                        North Carolina
                     before the turn of the century. The earliest New Light congregations in Indiana were of
                    the "old Christian" connection rather than from the Stone group. It is likely that
                    John Wright wrote to the "Eastern Conference of the Christian Church in Indiana,"
                    an organization formed in 1827 primarily of "old Christian" congregations.
                    Beverley Vawter was the clerk of this conference.32
            
            The traditional interpretation of John and Peter Wright's merger efforts has been that a
                    unity conference of Baptists, Dunkers, and New Lights was arranged for July, 1828. Representatives
                    met on a farm just south of Edinburgh in 
                        Bartholomew County
                    , Indiana. No detailed minutes or records of this meeting were kept, of course, for fear
                    of setting up new denominational rules and creeds. Joseph Hostetler, John Wright, and Beverley
                    Vawter, each representing their religious traditions, agreed to drop denominational names and creeds
                    and to work cooperatively in a loose organization called the "Southern
                        District."33
            
            Two reports of the Edinburgh conference which appeared in Barton W. Stone's monthly
                    publication, the Christian Messenger, describe the 1828 meeting in other terms
                    which give an entirely different flavor to the proceedings. According to these reports the meeting
                    was merely the "second Conference of the 
                  
                     31 Adam Hostetler's will was admitted to probate in 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana, in October, 1826. Will Book B, p. 342, Probate Court, 
                                Clark County
                             Courthouse. Wright's merger proposal is briefly discussed in Cauble,
                                Disciples of Christ in Indiana, 34; and Trusty, "Formation of
                            the Christian Church in Indiana," 19.
                  
                     32 For more on the various New Light groups in the Ohio
                                Valley see Shaw, Hoosier Disciples, 27-36, 60-71. Vawter
                            was born in 
                                Virginia
                             and baptized a New Light in 
                                Kentucky
                            . He moved to 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Indiana, in 1819 and was a popular preacher among various New Light and
                            nominally Baptist churches. As with Joseph Hostetler, by 1827 Vawter had also come under the
                            influence of 
                                Campbell
                             and the Christian Baptist. Evans, Pioneer
                                Preachers, 101-25. See also Christian Messenger, I (August 25,
                            1827), 240.
                  
                     33 Cauble, Disciples of Christ in Indiana, 34, 37;
                            Trusty, "Formation of the Christian Church in Indiana," 20, 22-23. Evans,
                                Pioneer Preachers, 67, suggests that the unity conference of 1828 took
                            place within the context of what would have been the last meeting of the Brethren
                            Association. It seems clear, however, that the conference was not arranged by the
                        Dunkers.
               
                     Eastern District of the Christian Church." The
                    presiding elder, Jesse Hughs, recorded the ministers present. Included were John Wright, Peter
                    Wright, and Beverley Vawter. Neither the name of Joseph Hostetler nor that of any other clearly
                    recognizable Brethren minister is on this list.34 Another New Light minister,
                    Joseph Hatchitt, described the Wright brothers at Edinburgh:
                        The Wright Brothers, whose names you will see in the minutes have been formerly denominated
                            "Depending Baptists," but lately have laid that name aside, and now call
                            themselves the "church of Christ." I judge there are six to eight elders
                            among them, and many churches. When we met in conference together, we could find nothing to
                            separate us asunder. In fine, we saw as nearly eye to eye as any company of Elders who have
                            assembled in modern times—and there was such a sweet spirit of love.35
                  
                    
            
            The correspondence of Hughs and Hatchitt does not suggest that a formal merger of any kind took
                    place. Indeed, Brethren participation in this meeting is doubtful. The number of elders listed as
                    being in the "church of Christ" more clearly reflects John Wright's group
                    of Baptists alone than it does a combined Dunker-Baptist organization. Still, it is evident that the
                    Wrights were in full cooperation with the New Light body. They were asked to bear a letter of
                    greeting to another New Light Christian conference in 
                        Harrison County
                    , and John Wright was also chosen a member of a "presbytery"
                    (committee) to ordain a candidate to the ministry.36
            
            The mystery of who merged with whom remains. It is clear that after 1827 the Brethren Association
                    ceased to function as a separate group and that its leaders became public advocates of the
                    Restoration movement. Joseph Hostetler and Peter Hon traveled widely in 1829 and 1830 among Brethren
                    communities in Indiana, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     urging full participation in the movement.37 It was John Wright,
                    however, who played the crucial role of bringing the Brethren into Restoration activities in
                    Indiana. His personal relationship to the Brethren merits further attention.
            
               
                  34 Jesse Hughs, "[Correspondence] For the Christian
                        Messenger," Christian Messenger, II (September, 1828), 259. Other
                        ministers at the conference included Henry Logan, Jesse Frazier, James Doudle, James Daughterly,
                        William Tracy, William P. Richie, Thomas Johnson, Josiah Ashley, and Joseph Hatchitt. The
                        unordained ministers were Pliny Hatchitt, James McCoy, and Leonard Henry.
               
                  35 Joseph Hatchitt, "A Letter from Elder J. Hatchitt,"
                            ibid., 260-61. Although Hatchitt refers to minutes, his and
                        Hughs' correspondence were personal reports not official minutes.
               
                  36
                        Ibid.; Hughs, "Correspondence," 260.
               
                  37 Evans, Pioneer Preachers, 33-34, 67.
            
            
            The Wrights were a family of 
                        Quaker
                     background from near the Uwharry Brethren area in Rowan and 
                        Randolph
                     counties, 
                        North Carolina
                    . John Wright was born there but grew to adulthood in Powell's Valley, 
                        Virginia
                    . After a short period in 
                  Wayne County,
                            Kentucky
               , he moved to 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, where he was baptized in 1808. In 1810 he relocated on the Blue
                        River in 
                        Washington County
                    . He was soon joined there by his father, Amos; uncle, Philbert Wright; younger brother,
                    Peter; and other brothers as well. John, Amos, and Peter are credited with forming the
                        Blue River Baptist Church in 1811. They all eventually became preachers.
                    John Wright continued to reside in this general area until his death but spent his last eight years
                    in an extensive itinerant ministry.38
            
            The Blue River Baptist Church and others organized by the Wrights in a
                        "Blue River Association" have been variously described as
                    "free will" or "dependent" Baptists. Presumedly this meant that
                    like the Brethren, and in contrast to most American Baptist groups that developed out of the
                    Calvinist tradition, the Wrights emphasized man's "free choice" in
                    securing salvation. Also like the Brethren, their churches were non-creedal and organized on the
                    principle of the Bible alone as sufficient guide for faith and practice. Accordingly, they did not
                    identify with the more numerous "general" Baptists. Indeed, the closest and
                    earliest association of the Wrights in Indiana was with the Brethren.39
            
            Amos Wright had become a Dunker in 
                        North Carolina
                    , probably when he married into a German Baptist family. His brother, Philbert, married
                    into the Sears family, which was also Brethren. While Restoration sources do not describe John
                    Wright as a Dunker, there is at least one local tradition from Olive Branch which so remembers
                        him:
                        the Dunkards had a church early in this century [nineteenth] in what is known as Owen
                            Township. It is known by the name of Olive Branch chapel. Revs. Messrs. John Wright and Mr.
                            Hughes, the former a Dunkard and the latter a New-Light, united and formed a
                            union…. Rev. John Wright, who came from 
                                North Carolina
                            , had but few followers, and of course it was easy to go over to the new faith.
                            The great hindrance to the coalition with the Dunkards was 
                        
                           38
                                    Ibid. A biographical sketch of John Wright is given in ibid., 29-41.
                        
                           39
                                    Ibid., 30-31. It would be incorrect to assume that the Dunkers or
                                    the Blue River Baptists were much concerned about orthodox
                                    theological positions. As biblical literalists they were more interested in
                                    faithfully observing New Testament commandments. Calvinism is a body of doctrine
                                    based on the teachings of the 
                                        Geneva
                                     Reformer John Calvin which emphasized the omnipotence of God,
                                    man's sinful nature, and the salvation of God's chosen, or elect,
                                    by unearned grace alone. For a discussion of Brethren theology in the early and
                                    midnineteenth century see Sappington, Brethren in the New Nation,
                                    123-98.
                     
                             their mode of worship. But the union dispensed with
                            trine baptism, or dipping three times, which according to their discipline was a necessary
                            part of their religion. Feet-washing, too, was discarded by Rev. Mr. Hughes and between them
                            both a satisfactory settlement of conflicting views was made.40
                  
                     While no date is given in this account, it does confirm Brethren and New Light cooperation.
                    Reverend Hughes may well have been the same Jesse Hughs who chaired the Edinburgh conference.41
            
            This passage identifying John Wright with the Dunkers, however, raises more problems than can be
                    resolved. Wright's merger proposal to the Hostetler Brethren supposedly came after they had
                    agreed to adopt the single immersion mode of baptism. According to the above account, Wright himself
                    practiced trine immersion. The passage also indicates that Hughes compromised on feet washing, a
                    practice central to the Brethren but unknown in New Light circles. If Wright were indeed a Dunker,
                    he rather than Hughes should have yielded on this point. And it is known that Wright, who regularly
                    conducted services at Olive Branch in the 1840s, practiced feet washing in his later ministry.42 Whatever Wright's religious background—Dunker,
                    independent free will Baptist, or some combination of the two—his relationship to the
                    southern Indiana Brethren was obviously close, and his influence among them was apparently quite
                        strong.43
            
            Several Brethren ministers became leading advocates of the Restoration. Joseph Hostetler remained
                    perhaps the most 
                  
                     40 History of 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities, II, 373.
                  
                     41 Little is known about Jesse Hughs. He was apparently affiliated
                            with the "old Christian" New Light movement of the eastern states rather
                            than with Barton W. Stone. Although he was the presiding officer at the organization of the
                            "Eastern District of the Christian Church" (Indiana) in 1827, Hughs is not
                            considered by either Shaw or Cauble to have been a major figure in the Indiana Restoration.
                            The available 
                                Clark County
                             marriage records do not indicate any ministerial activity for him beyond 1829;
                            in Lawrence County he performed marriages from 1828 until at least 1835. Marriage Record C,
                            pp. 18, 22, 
                                Clark County
                             Courthouse; Marriage Record A, pp. 229, 391, 506, County Clerk's
                            Office, Lawrence County Courthouse, 
                                Bedford
                            , Indiana. See also Shaw, Hoosier Disciples, 32, 35n.
                  
                     42 The best source on Wright's later ministry is John Wright,
                            "Record of the Life and Pilgrimage of John Wright, Sr., 1844-1850,"
                            typewritten manuscript (
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana). Wright kept this diary, which consists primarily of travel accounts,
                            after the death of his second wife. There are numerous references to former Brethren
                            congregations and personalities which he had known from the beginning of the Restoration
                            movement, perhaps earlier.
                  
                     43 Indicative of Wright's close relationship with the Dunkers
                            was his friendship with Abraham Kern. Sometime before 1837 Kern assisted Wright in a merger
                            of the "Southern District" with the Silver Creek Regular Baptist
                            Association in Clark and Jefferson counties. Evans, Pioneer Preachers, 34,
                            39.
               
                     influential. He traveled widely in Indiana, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                    ; labored in and organized a number of new "churches of Christ";
                    defended Campbellism from Methodist attacks in a pamphlet entitled Calumnies
                    Refuted; and while in 
                        Illinois
                     debated publicly with pioneer Dunker Elder Isham Gibson.44 John
                    Ribble, David S. Lewis, and Christian Hostetler, a younger brother of Joseph Hostetler, also had
                    Brethren backgrounds and worked in the Restoration movement. These men were from the Lost River
                    church—today know as Old Liberty. Abraham Kern from White
                    River—today called Old Union—his brother Conrad of 
                        Monroe County
                    , and his first cousin Alexander Kern of Lawrence County became
                    "Christian" preachers. Peter Hon and his brother Solomon, both of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and George H. Hon of the Bethel and later Old Liberty congregations were still other
                    ministers of Brethren background who were active in the Restoration. Much like Joseph Hostetler,
                    Peter Hon traveled and preached widely in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    , organizing new Restoration congregations.45 In fact, all the
                    identifiable ministers in the independent Brethren Association eventually joined the 
                        Campbell
                     movement.
            At about the same time that the western Association Brethren were merging into the Restoration, the
                    Brethren of the Annual Meeting shut the door on single immersion. In 1827 the issue of the proper
                    mode of baptism was raised, but the Meeting reaffirmed its decision of 1821. The following year the
                    matter was again introduced. This time the Meeting counseled that candidates from other churches
                    ought to be baptized again in the "true manner." Between 1832 and 1834 several new
                    queries were introducted on the subject, but the language of the Meeting became more and more
                    uncompromising. Trine immersion became again the only form of baptism which the Brethren
                        recognized.46
            
            
               
                  44
                        Ibid., 68-71; Shaw, Hoosier Disciples, 50n; and Minnie S.
                        Buckingham, ed., Church of the Brethren in Southern 
                                Illinois
                            
                   (Elgin, Ill., 1950), 220. There are no known copies of
                        Hostetler's tract still extant.
               
                  45 Biographical data on many of these ministers are not readily available.
                        For the Hostetlers see Hostetler, Descendants of Jacob Hochstetler, 846, 862.
                        For the Kerns see Garrard, Family of Conrad Kern, 30-33, 37-39, 46-47. For the
                        Hons see "Restoration Pioneers—The Honn Family," Christian Standard, LIII (April 13, 1918), 1; and Mamie Honn, "History of the
                        Honn Family of Coles County, 
                            Illinois
                        , 1676-1938," December, 1938, typewritten manuscript. A photocopy of this
                        manuscript is in the possession of the author of this article. For a discussion of the life of
                        Peter Hon see Eller, "Peter Hon of East Union," 5-12. A brief sketch of Lewis,
                        who also served in the Indiana legislature, may be found in History of Lawrence, 
                                Orange
                             and 
                                Washington
                             Counties, 340. Ribble, who died in 1828, was one of the earliest ministers
                        in 
                            Washington County
                        ; he is buried in the Liberty (Lost River) cemetery.
               
                  46
                        Minutes of the Annual Meeting, 51-52, 55-57.
            
            
            Although the Hostetler Brethren may be considered advocates of the 
                        Campbell
                     Restoration after 1827, the change from Dunker to Disciple was apparently gradual.
                    Evidence suggests that Abraham Kern's congregation may not have fully embraced the movement
                    until 1832; Olive Branch not until 1839.47 Joseph Hostetler wrote that his
                    father, a deacon in the Dunker faith from 1796, did not support the Restoration until 1831. Other
                    members may have retained a Brethren identity much longer.48 It is also true
                    that while the Brethren gave up some unique practices and customs, they retained others. Feet
                    washing, for example, was practiced by John Wright, Peter Hon, and Joseph Hostetler until the close
                    of their active ministry. Hostetler vigorously defended this service as a church ordinance in print
                    as late as 1847.49
            
            After 1827 the schism which began with the expulsion of Adam Hostetler and Peter Hon was complete.
                    The noncreedal faith of the Brethren, their emphasis on New Testament primitivism, their similarity
                    with 
                        Campbell
                     on the necessity of adult (believer's) baptism—these factors made
                    the Dunkers of Hostetler's Association ripe for a redefinition of their religious identity
                    along Restoration lines. In 1820 it must have appeared to Adam Hostetler, Joseph Hostetler, Abraham
                    Kern, and Peter Hon that the eastern Brethren were becoming more sectarian in terms of church
                    government, distinctive dress, continued use of the German language, and integration into American
                    culture and values—all in an age when unity and cooperation among frontier Christians
                    were being stressed. The Brethren in southern Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     clearly wanted to practice their faith without the restrictions of the eastern church
                    and the Annual Meeting. They favored an independent frontier spirit, and their Association was an
                    attempt to capture that spirit. Once they abandoned trine immersion baptism, however, there was
                    little which separated them from other frontier Baptist groups.
            It is a paradox of the Disciples Restoration that 
                        Campbell
                    's crusade for undoing denominationalism eventually gave rise in fact to yet
                    another denomination. The Hostetler Brethren, how ever, 
                  
                     47 James M. Mathes, "Another Old Soldier Gone," Christian Record, third series, II (December, 1858), 375; Millennial Harbinger, new series, III (December, 1839), 471.
                  
                     48 "Obituaries," Christian Record,
                            IV (February, 1847), 256. In a letter to David B. Eller, August 10, 1979, Jason Rainey
                            Adamson states that his grandmother, Louise Sears Adamson, a member of the White
                                River church, never changed from her Dunker faith.
                  
                     49 Joseph Hostetler, "Feetwashing," Christian Record, IV (January, 1847), 205-208.
               
                     undoubtedly viewed their involvement as a return to primitive
                    Christianity without the narrow strictures of Dunker tradition. The Hostetler-Wright merger in 1827
                    was the first of many in Indiana, only indirectly influenced by 
                        Campbell
                    , which over time became identified as the Disciples of Christ.50
            
            By 1839, when the Disciples held their first state convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with Barton W. Stone as the featured speaker, the Dunker background congregations were
                    in full cooperation. A partial census of participating congregations compiled at that time includes
                    Lost River, White River, Olive Branch, and Bethel.51 The
                    southern Indiana Brethren had become Disciple Christians.
            
               
                  50 The Hostetler-Wright merger may well have been the first combination of
                        different religious traditions in the Restoration movement. It took place five years prior to
                        the 1832 agreement between 
                            Campbell
                         and Stone to work cooperatively. Shaw, Hoosier Disciples, 49,
                        suggests that, chronologically, the Brethren became churches of Christ (with Wright's
                        group), then a New Light Conference (Christian), and finally, Disciples of Christ.
               
                  51 Francis W. Emmons, "Statistics of Indiana," Millennial Harbinger, new series, III (August, 1839), 345, see also 551. Lost
                        River had a membership of one hundred with Joseph Hostetler, Christian Hostetler, and David S.
                        Lewis as elders. White River had one hundred members, Abraham Kern and
                        Alexander Kern, elders. Bethel's statistics, added somewhat later, credited that church
                        with seventy members, Adam Sears, George H. Hon, and D[avid?] Fouts, "preaching
                        Brethren." Olive Branch had ninety members in 1844. Christian Record,
                        II (October, 1844), 94.
            
         
         
         
            "Give Yourself No Trouble About Me": The 
                        Shiloh
                     Letters of George W. Lennard
            
                    Edited by Paul Hubbard and Christine Lewis⋆
               
                
            Hoosiers were stout defenders of the Union in the Civil War, and one who came forward willingly to
                    serve and die was George W. Lennard. When the Thirty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry regiment was
                    organized in September, 1861, Lennard joined Edited by Paul Hubbard its ranks as a private soldier
                    but was immediately elected lieutenant and named as adjutant. His duty with the Thirty-sixth was
                    short-lived, however, because within weeks he was made a captain and assigned as aide-de-camp to
                    Brigadier General Thomas J. Wood, who in the 
                        Shiloh
                     campaign commanded the Sixth Division of Major General Don Carlos Buell's Army
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Shortly before the battle of Murfreesboro, or Stone's River, December 31,
                    1862-January 2, 1863, Lennard was commissioned lieutenant colonel of the Fifty-seventh Indiana
                    Volunteer Infantry, and at that battle he was wounded while fighting with his regiment. After
                    convalescing in the spring of 1863, he rejoined his unit for the campaign against 
                        Chattanooga
                     under Major General William S. Rosecrans. When the Federal forces occupied that city in
                    September, 1863, Lennard was detailed as provost marshal, and he had no part in the Battle of
                    Chickamauga. The Fifty-seventh Indiana, however, did participate in the storming of Missionary Ridge
                    in November, and Lennard escaped unscathed in that dramatic assault. In the spring of 1864 fortune
                    deserted him, and as the Army of the Cumberland marched toward 
                        Atlanta
                    , he was wounded at Resaca, 
                        Georgia
                    , on the afternoon of May 14 and died that evening.1
            
            
               
                  ⋆ Paul Hubbard is professor of history, 
                            Arizona
                         State University, Tempe, 
                            Arizona
                        . Christine Lewis, a resident of Tempe, holds an M.A. from 
                            Arizona
                         State University.
               
                  1 George W. Lennard's army career can be traced in his letters;
                        in U.S., War Department, War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official
                            Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1880-1901), Ser. I, Vol. X, part 1, pp. 377, 378, 709, Vol. XVI, part 1, pp. 148,
                        242, 786, Vol. XX,
            
            
            During his army career Lennard was conscientious in writing to his wife, Clarinda, and there are
                    extant approximately 160 of these letters. They are in the manuscript collection of the 
                        Arizona
                     State University Library, having been donated by Mr. and Mrs. Otto Schmieder who
                    acquired them upon the death of Mrs. Asahel W. Lennard, a Phoenix resident and widow of
                    Lennard's younger son. The following article includes twenty-two letters written between
                    March 28, 1862, when Wood's division left 
                        Nashville
                     for Pittsburg Landing on the Tennessee River to join Major General
                    Ulysses S. Grant, and May 30, when the Union forces under Major General Henry W. Halleck occupied
                    Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    . Lennard arrived on the 
                        Shiloh
                     battlefield on April 7, the afternoon of the second day, observed the grisly aftermath,
                    and participated in the events leading to the capture of Corinth.
            A resident of 
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana, when the war started, Lennard was born on a farm near 
                        Newark
                    , Licking County, 
                        Ohio
                    , on March 25, 1825. He had little formal schooling as a child, but he did learn to read
                    and write by his middle teens. In an age of lax professional standards Lennard studied for three
                    years at the Eclectic Medical Institute of Medicine in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and acquired a degree of doctor of medicine. He took up residence in 
                        New Castle
                     and practiced for two years until he bought the 
                        New Castle
                    
                    Courier which he edited and published for eighteen months. Not yet thirty years
                    old, he next took up study of the law at the Law School of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and graduated in 1855. According to one biographer, Lennard was a successful attorney,
                    and the 1860 census lists his occupation as attorney-at-law.2 The letters
                    indicate, however, that his principal occupation was dealing in real estate and other financial
                    transactions. Lennard was described as a handsome man five feet ten inches tall, well proportioned,
                    and appropriately dressed, with dark hair and dark gray eyes.3
            
            Lennard's letters to his wife reveal him as a loving husband and father who is constantly
                    concerned about the family's 
                  part 1, pp. 461, 493, 495, Vol. XXXVIII, part 1, pp. 332, 345, 346, 350; and in George
                            Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry county
                                , Indiana, 1822-1906 (2 vols., 
                                New Castle
                            , Ind., 1906), II, 636-38. His name, rank, and regiment appear in Francis B.
                            Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army, from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2, 1903 (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1903), II, 121.
                  
                     2 Hazzard, History of 
                                    Henry county
                                
                     , II, 636; U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules for 
                                Henry county
                            , Indiana, June 6, 1860 (
                                Henry county
                             Historical Society, 
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     3 W. F. Boor, History of 
                                    Henry county
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 369.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            GEORGE W. LENNARD
                        
                  Courtesy 
                                Henry county
                             Historical Society, 
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana.
               
                     welfare and always ready to advise his wife on managing the home
                    in his absence. In a letter written from near Iuka, 
                        Mississippi
                    , on June 10, 1862, Lennard remembers: "Ten years ago today we were united in
                    the holy bonds of matrimony, and our destinies became one. From that day to the present hour my love
                    for you has quietly flowed on widening and deepening in its course." Indeed, the subject of
                    love appears frequently in the correspondence. Lennard's letter of May 28, 1863, written
                    from Murfreesboro, 
                        Tennessee
                    , comments on "the deep, constant and ardent love" he has for his
                    wife. He confesses: "There was a kind of sacred holyness about it which never warmed my
                    heart before." The product of a society perhaps less openly articulate about such a topic,
                    Lennard ponders somewhat the propriety of his statements. He concludes: "But why should I
                    feel ashamed of my feelings for you?"4 His letters are thus in part
                    love letters.
            A strong patriotism also shows through Lennard's writings. Dedicated thoroughly to the Union
                    cause, he was in the service until victory or death. In February, 1864, he elected to stay with his
                    regiment as it reenlisted, saying, "I wont back out when the work is half done."
                    He knew his wife would scold him for signing up for three more years, but he wrote: "To
                    tell you the candid, honest truth I dont think I would be contented at home while the war is going
                    on. I am solomly impressed that it is my duty to help put this rebelion down."5
            
            Lennard was an ambitious man who very much wanted to get ahead in the army and be well regarded by
                    his superiors. Repeatedly he discusses his hope to become a full colonel, but although he did
                    command his regiment, he never rose above lieutenant colonel. Ruefully he wrote Clarinda from 
                        Chattanooga
                     on October 18, 1863: "I guess I am about as high up in the military world as I
                    will ever get. I have only got about 440 men present and absent, and a regiment to be entitled to a
                    Colonel under the late order from the war-department must have over 800 of an agregate."6
            
            Lennard must have been a good officer, however, because his compassion for the suffering men in the
                    ranks, the bewildered blacks, and the civilian victims of the war is frequently evident. As the Army
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     marched toward 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , in the autumn of 1862, Lennard wrote:
                    "We arrived here at mid-night 
                  
                     4 George W. Lennard to Clarinda Lennard, June 10, 1862, May 28, 1863,
                            Lennard Papers (
                                Arizona
                             State University Library, Tempe).
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., February 8, 1864.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., October 18, 1863.
               
                     last night after a terable march through heat and dust. I never
                    was so tired and woren out in my life. But, Oh! my God, the poor soldiers trudging through the dust
                    over a rough turn pike on half rations, without tents, and many of them without blankets these cold
                    nights…. Is not there lot a hard one?"7 The officer corps of
                    the army often came under Lennard's criticism. He told his wife that he believed every
                    officer from highest to lowest should be examined for competence and those found wanting, whether or
                    not they had "political influence or wealthy and influential friends," should be
                    dismissed from the service. "To many of our officers are inferior men, inferior to the
                    private soldier they command."8
            
            Campaigning as he did in 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    , Lennard encountered many black people. His comments show sympathy for their confusion
                    and fear, but he also registers the common white belief in black inferiority. His black servant,
                    Dick, and his horse, John, are placed in the same category when in one sentence both are said to be
                        well.9 Referring to Dick on another occasion, Lennard said: "He is
                    like most negros—to get much out of him you have to watch him." In the same
                    letter Lennard wished he could send a Negro home, "but I think you would find one more
                    trouble than value."10
            
            As the conflict ground on, Lennard's letters frequently revealed his concern for the evil
                    and futility of war. "What creatures we are. If the enemy runs we are mad, if he stands and
                    whips us we are mad, and if we whip him and dont kill every rebel and take every thing they have the
                    people at home are mad, and so it goes."11 While in a poor, backwoods
                    area of 
                        Tennessee
                    , Lennard lamented the effects that army foraging, "which means to go out and
                    take every thing the citizens have to eat," had on the local population. "I do
                    wish this horid war was over. I am willing to meet the armed rebels, but when it comes to the old
                    men, women and children crying and whining around me it is more than I can stand."12
            
            Except for Lennard's urging his wife to be sure to give the children a good Christian
                    upbringing, the subject of religion does not come up very often in the letters. On the evening of
                    December 31, 1863, however, as the army lay at 
                        Nashville
                    , Lennard expressed a concern that must trouble thoughtful men in any war. He fervently
                    wished he had that "jewel of great price—a clear and well defined hope that all
                    would be well with me in the world to come." 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., September 26, 1862.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., September 12, 1862.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., May 8, 1862.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., August 4, 1862.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., August 28, 1862.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., July 9, 1863.
               
                     He did not fear death, he said, but dreaded something after
                    death. "You will say, why dont you be a Christian? I say, how can a soldier be a
                    Christian?" He continued: "Read all Christs teaching, and then tell me whether one engaged in maiming and butchering men—men made in
                    the express image of God himself—can be saved under the Gospel. Clear
                    my mind on this subject and you will do me a world of good." On the whole, however, Lennard
                    was confident and optimistic. He worried little about death and cheerfully accepted the hardships of
                    the field.
            Here, then, are letters from an intelligent, articulate, middle-class citizen of the mid-nineteenth
                    century. They are letters which reflect an extraordinary devotion to duty by a husband and father
                    whose love of wife, children, and hearth would have to be secondary as long as the Union was
                    endangered by what he considered to be treason. Too, they bring out in intimate detail the problems
                    faced by an ordinary family disrupted by the Civil War.
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    March 28th 18621
                           
                                
                        Dear Wife2
                        
                        On tomorrow morning we agane take up the line of march for 
                                        Columbia
                                     about forty miles south of this place. I dont think we go any further
                                    for a few days. The main body of Gen'l Buell's Army3 is there now, and has been for several days building a bridge over Duck
                                        River4 which I think is about completed.
                        I received a paper from you to day, and was very much refreshed in reading it, as I
                                    had not seen a "Courier"
                           5
                                    since I was at home. It is shocking the way Smith was murderded in cold blood, by
                                    those who profess so much chivelry.
                        Tell Henry6 I thank him for sending me his program. That he must
                                    be a good boy work for you all the time except when at 
                              
                                 1 With the exceptions here indicated the George W.
                                            Lennard letters have been followed as closely as possible in this
                                            transcription. Spacing of headings, salutations, and closings has been
                                            standardized, but the punctuation originally used in these portions of the
                                            letters has been retained. It was frequently impossible to determine whether
                                            Lennard meant to use capitals or lower case letters, to begin new
                                            paragraphs, or to write certain words as two words or one; e.g., today or to
                                            day. In such instances the editors have attempted to conform to
                                            Lennard's intent or, when a decision could not be reached, have
                                            followed modern practice. Run-on sentences have been broken up by spacing so
                                            that the letters may be more easily read and understood; unintentional
                                            repetitions have been omitted; and incorrect spellings have been retained
                                            and have not been indicated by a [sic] or a correction
                                            except for a few missing letters which have been bracketed in to clarify
                                            meaning. A bracketed question mark appears after a few words that the
                                            editors were unable to decipher satisfactorily. Lennard consistently used
                                            periods rather than commas in dates and in four digit numbers; e.g., 4.560
                                            or April 7. 1862. This practice has been maintained.
                              
                                 2 Clarinda Lennard was born on March 9, 1833, the
                                            daughter of Asahel and Catherine Woodward. She was married to Lennard on
                                            June 10, 1852, and died June 1, 1879. Gravestone, South Mound Cemetery, 
                                                New Castle
                                            , Indiana; U.S., Eighth Census, population schedules for 
                                                Henry county
                                            , Indiana, 
                                                Henry county
                                             Historical Society, 
                                                New Castle
                                            ; Marriage Records, County Clerk's Office, 
                                                Henry county
                                             Courthouse, 
                                                New Castle
                                            .
                              
                                 3 Major General Don Carlos Buell commanded the Army of
                                            the 
                                                Ohio
                                             from November 15, 1861, to October 30, 1862. That army was
                                            renamed the Army of the Cumberland on October 24, 1862. Frederick H. Dyer,
                                                A Compendium of the War of the Rebellion (3 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1959), I, 425.
                              
                                 4 Duck River, a tributary of the Tennessee
                                                River, flows northwestward through 
                                    Columbia, Tennessee
                                 .
                              
                                 5 Lennard's letters contain several
                                            references to a "Courier." This was the
                                            paper which in 1841 began publication as the 
                                                New Castle
                                            
                                            Courier-Times. Lennard himself purchased that organ in
                                            1853 when it had become the 
                                                New Castle
                                            
                                            Courier and owned it for about eighteen months. N. W. Ayer
                                            & Sons, Directory of Newspapers and Periodicals (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1932), 283; 
                                                New Castle
                                            
                                            Courier, June 2, 1864.
                              
                                 6 Henry Rudisel Lennard, George W. Lennard's
                                            elder son, was born in 
                                                New Castle
                                            , August 14, 1853. George Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                                    Henry county
                                                , Indiana, 1822-1906 (2 vols., 
                                                New Castle
                                            , 1906), II, 638.
                           
                                     school. Tell Gertie7 Pa
                                    expects to be home at the next Exhibition and wants her to have a nice peace to
                                    speak, the same to Henry. Tell Sailie8 he must be a good boy
                                    this summer and not pull up Ma's flowers, nor run off out in the road where
                                    the horses, or wagons will run over him.
                        I have most excelent health, but I dont know how it will be with me when the extreme
                                    hot weather comes on here, for from present indications it is prety warm here in the
                                    summer. Write as soon as you get this. You speak of it giving you great pleasure to
                                    receive a letter; how do you supose it goes with me away off here with hardly any
                                    one I ever knew before and You and the little ones and all the sweet recollections
                                    that cluster around home dont you think if a "feller had
                                    any feelens" he would like to hear from you often. So, dear wife, good
                                    night, and believe me your husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp
                           
                                    Mar. 30. 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        After a very hard days march of fiften miles over a very dry dusty road, I sit in my
                                    open tent with a light on a camp stool and a book on my knees to pen a few lines for
                                    my dear wife, but when it will reach you, or when I will have a chance to mail it is
                                    more than I know at this time. We are now twenty six miles from 
                                        Nashville
                                     and I believe about fiften or sixteen from 
                                        Columbia
                                    . The Country on every side is most beautiful The farms are large and in
                                    a high state of cultivation. The farms are generally from 500 to 1.000 acres, with
                                    from ten to 50 slaves. The negros look very clever at us and want to go along. I
                                    could get 50 every day to go with me, but we have nothing to do with them. The
                                    General forbids them coming into the camp and if they do get in they must be given
                                    up to their masters, or turned over to the civel authorities wich means puting them
                                    in jail.9 I do pity the poor creatures. After 
                              
                                 7 Gertie (Gertrude), born in 
                                                New Castle
                                            , July 22, 1855, was Lennard's second child and only
                                            daughter. Ibid., 642.
                              
                                 8 Sailie (Asahel Woodward) was Lennard's
                                            third child and younger son. He was born in 
                                                New Castle
                                            , October 15, 1859. Ibid., 639.
                              
                                 9 Lennard is referring to Brigadier General Thomas J.
                                            Wood, commander of the Sixth Division, Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            , to whom Lennard was aide-de-camp. Major General Henry W.
                                            Halleck, commander of the Department of 
                                                Missouri
                                            
                              
                           
                                     the "white folks" have told
                                    them all kinds of stories about us taking them to 
                                        Cuba
                                     and selling them and taking them out and shooting at them for fun, they
                                    still flock to us, and I do assure you it is pretty hard to put the poor cretures
                                    off, but we have it to do. I think if a John Brown was to get among them now it
                                    would not be such a falure as it was at Harpers Ferry.10 All
                                    they want is a leader, when I have no doubt they would rise and destroy every thing
                                    before them.
                        I have not had a letter from you for several days It is growing late and we have to
                                    be on the stur at 4 o'clock in the morning, so give my love to the childern
                                    and beleave me as ever your loving and affectionate husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 2d 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        We are in camp twelve miles south of 
                                        Columbia
                                     on the road to Corinth.11 There is no chance to
                                    send or receive letters here and I dont know whether this will ever reach you or
                                    not. But a messenger is going back to 
                                        Columbia
                                     and I will risk sending it, hoping it may reach you and find you all
                                    well. We have had four very hard days marching and expect to have several more. The
                                    weather here is intensely warm for the time of year. Peach trees are out in bloom
                                    and most of the early trees are begining to leaf out. We have passed through one of
                                        
                              succeeding John C. Fremont, issued General Orders No. 3 on November 20,
                                            1861. This order stated that since important information concerning Union
                                            forces was being sent to the enemy by fugitive slaves who were admitted or
                                            had escaped to within Union lines, "it is directed that no such
                                            persons be hereafter permitted to enter the lines of any camp or of any
                                            forces on the march, and that any now within such lines be immediately
                                            excluded therefrom." U.S., War Department, War of the
                                                Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and
                                                Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880-1900), Ser. I, Vol. VIII, 370. This work will hereafter
                                            be cited as Official Records with all references to Series
                                            I.
                              
                                 10 John Brown, notorious as a violent antislavery
                                            activist in 
                                                Kansas
                                             in 1856, led seventeen white men and five blacks on a raid on
                                            the 
                                                United States
                                             arsenal at Harper's Ferry, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , on the upper Potomac River, on October 16-18, 1859, with the
                                            apparent purpose of capturing arms to be distributed among the slaves. 
                                                United States
                                             Marines commanded by Colonel Robert E. Lee defeated the
                                            raiders, and on December 2, 1859, 
                                                Brown
                                             was hanged for treason against the state of 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Dictionary of American Biography (
                                                New York
                                            , 1952), III, 131-34.
                              
                                 11 Corinth, 
                                                Mississippi
                                            , is about sixty-five miles southwest of 
                                    Columbia, Tennessee
                                 .
                           
                                     the finest countries I ever saw, but we have
                                    come to the end of it, for we are now encamped just at the foot of a high hill, over
                                    which we have to pass, and I learn it is very rough for several miles
                        I feel confident we will have a fight in less than two weeks. Every thing indicates
                                    it, and it will be a big one. I hope it may come soon for we are well prepared
                                        now.12 But give your self no trouble about me for I feel
                                    confident we will whip the rebals and that I will come out safe Your letter of the
                                    22d ult is the last one I have received. We have herd no news since we left Nashvill
                                    The 3613 is a head some fifteen or twenty miles, but we will all
                                    be togather when the fight comes on. I think this will be the bigest fight of the
                                    war, and if we whip them and get possession of the net work of railroads at
                                        Corrinth14 they day will be about over with them in this
                                    region of country
                        The messenger is about ready to leave so I must close by hoping that this may find
                                    you all well
                        My love to the childern and believe me as ever loving and affectionate husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battle Fielf, near 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                 
                                 15
                              
                           
                                    April 10, 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        As you will see from this I am still on the land of the living. We arived here about
                                    two hours before the Enemy retreated, 
                              
                                 12 The round figures for the total number of Union
                                            forces in the Battle of 
                                                Shiloh
                                            , which began about four days after Lennard wrote this letter,
                                            were: 33,000 in the Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                             under Major General Ulysses S. Grant on the morning of April 6;
                                            5,000 under Major General Lewis "Lew" Wallace by
                                            nightfall, April 6; and 20,000 in Buell's Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             which began arriving the evening of April 6 and until noon on
                                            April 7, for a total of 58,000. The Confederate total was 40,335 men under
                                            Generals Albert Sidney Johnston and Pierre G. T. Beauregard on the
                                            battlefield by the morning of April 6, 1862. Robert Underwood Johnson and
                                            Clarence Clough Buel, eds., Battles and Leaders of the Civil
                                                War … (4 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , c. 1884-1887), I, 538, 539.
                              
                                 13 During the 
                                                Shiloh
                                             campaign the Thirty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry was in the
                                            Tenth Brigade of Brigadier General William Nelson's Fourth Division
                                            of Buell's Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Ibid., 538.
                              
                                 14 The 
                                                Memphis
                                             and 
                                                Charleston
                                             Railroad running east and west crossed the north-south Mobile
                                            and 
                                                Ohio
                                             at Corinth. Ibid., I, 489.
                              
                                 15 Pittsburg Landing on the west bank of the
                                                Tennessee River was about twelve miles north of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            -
                                                Mississippi
                                             line and about seventeen miles northeast of Corinth. Ibid., 466.
                           
                                     and assisted in driving them back.16 Oh my God what a battle it was, in every direction for miles are the
                                    dead and dieing, and now three days since the battle ended hundreds of the secesh
                                    are not buried yet. The slaughter here is the most terable of any battle since the
                                        war.17 On Sunday we could hear the roar of the cannon thirty
                                    miles, and we marched all day Sunday and Sunday night and untill Monday noon to get
                                    here. I have often herd of the battle field, but I had no conception of what a
                                    terable sight it was.
                        The 36 took an active part in the fight, and I am informed behaved finely.18 The 57 was with us and did well—they had four men
                                    wounded, non killed19
                        
                        For three nights I have slept in the rain and mud without any covering, but a light
                                    blanket, as we had to leave every thing behind and make a forced march of thirty
                                    miles, I did not 
                              
                                 16 Wood, commander of the Sixth Division of
                                            Buell's army, in his report of April 10 on the Battle of 
                                                Shiloh
                                            , stated he had "ordered one of my aides-decamp,
                                            Captain Lennard, to accompany the Twenty-first Brigade to the battlefield
                                            …." Official Records, Vol. X, part 1,
                                            p. 377. Colonel George D. Wagner of the Fifteenth Indiana Infantry, who
                                            commanded the Twenty-first Brigade under Wood, in his report of April 9 said
                                            that they marched to the field on April 7, the second day of the battle,
                                            "in time to participate in the winding up of the great battle of
                                            that date." Lennard's future regiment, the Fifty-seventh
                                            Indiana, was in the Twenty-first Brigade and "were first engaged,
                                            being thrown out to the right of the brigade and on the left of General
                                            [Alexander McDowell] McCook, where they did good service, advancing upon the
                                            enemy under a heavy fire with the coolness of veterans until the enemy were
                                            driven from the field…. My [Wagner's] casualties during
                                            the engagement were 4 wounded, all of which were in the Fifty-seventh
                                            Indiana Regiment." Ibid., 380-81.
                              
                                 17 Lennard's evaluation of 
                                                Shiloh
                                             as the bloodiest Civil War battle to that date was correct.
                                            Official reports of Union casualties were 1,754 killed; 8,408 wounded; and
                                            2,885 missing, for a total of 13,047. Confederate figures were 1,728 dead;
                                            8,012 wounded; and 959 missing, totaling 10,699. Johnson and Buel, Battles and Leaders, I, 538, 539. Both William F. Fox, Regimental Losses in the American Civil War, 1861-1865 (
                                                Albany
                                            , N.Y., 1889), 543, 549; and Thomas L. Livermore, Numbers and Losses in the Civil War in America, 1861-65 (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1901), 79, 80, give the same figures except for Confederate
                                            dead which they list as 1,723.
                              
                                 18 As Buell's Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             came to Pittsburg Landing on April 6, the Thirty-sixth Indiana
                                            Infantry, part of the Tenth Brigade of Nelson's Fourth Division,
                                            was the first unit ferried to the west bank of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . The colonel of the regiment, William Grose, in his report
                                            dated April 8 stated that they were "ordered to advance, to support
                                            Captain Stone's battery, about 150 yards distant from my place of
                                            forming …; and as soon as the regiment was in place the firing
                                            commenced and continued until near dusk." The regiment lost two men
                                            killed and one wounded on April 6. The next day the Thirty-sixth moved
                                            forward at dawn and fought on the Federal left until about 1:00 p.m. when
                                            the Confederates on their front disengaged. At 
                                                Shiloh
                                             the Thirty-sixth suffered forty-five casualties, nine killed
                                            and thirty-six wounded. Official Records, Vol. X, part 1,
                                            pp. 337, 338, 106.
                              
                                 19 See note 16.
                           
                                     have my boots off for four days &
                                    nights, and have not washed or coamed my head in the same time
                        I saw John Livezey20 to day and got this sheet of paper from him
                                    as we have nether pen, ink or paper here All our baggage is twenty miles from here
                        Well, just imagin your humbel servant geting up in the morning out of the mud and
                                    water and shivering around a smokey fire, eating hard crackers and a little fat
                                    bacon for breakfast, and the same for dinner and supper. And it tasted
                                        good. But such is a soldiers life.
                        I have not received a word from you since we left 
                                        Nashville
                                    . I hope you are all well. My health is good. Exposure dont seem to hurt
                                    me, but I look hard. So does all the boys The boys in Pites Co21 we[re] glad to see me & I to see them
                        My love to our dear little ones, and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battle Field,
                           
                                    April 11. 1862
                                
                        My Dear>
                        As I have had no chance to send the inclosed to you and have secured pen, ink and
                                    paper, I will write you an additional line hoping they may reach you soon.
                        We are still in the rain and mud just in front of the enemy. We had a report
                                    yesterday that the enemy were approaching us agane in force which caused a
                                    tremendious stur. But it turned out to be a falts alarm I have been over the Battle
                                    Field a good deal
                        
                           
                              20 John Livezey (1842-1927) was a friend of Lennards and a
                                        fellow resident of 
                                            New Castle
                                        . Entering the Thirty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry as a
                                        commissary sergeant in October, 1861, he became an officer in July, 1862, and
                                        served almost to the end of the war, being mustered out as a brevet major in
                                        March, 1865. Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary
                                            of the 
                                                United States
                                             Army, from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2,
                                            1903 (2 vols., 
                                            Washington
                                        , 1903), I, 636; Gravestone, South Mound Cemetery.
                           
                              21 "Pite" was Clarinda
                                        Lennard's brother, Pyrrhus, who was born August 1, 1822, and died
                                        December 27, 1898. He was captain of Company C, Thirty-sixth Indiana Infantry.
                                        Disabled by a wound at Chickamauga, he resigned from the army October 18, 1863.
                                        Hazzard, History of 
                                                Henry county
                                            
                              , I, 387; Gravestone, South Mound Cemetery.
                        
                        
                        April 12. 1862
                        Just here I was interrupted yesterday with an other alarm and have forgoten what I
                                    was going to write
                        Our killed in this battle is about 1.000—wounded about 3.000—we
                                    lost about 3.500 prisners, so you see our loss is terable. The secesh left about
                                    2.500 killed on the field—they caried off their wounded with the
                                    exception of about 500 who we have to take care of22
                        
                        I am well. We have no paper but this little scrap. We are in the rain and mud. It is
                                    the worst weather I ever saw. I fear the men will all be sick by laying out in such
                                    terable weather.
                        This has undoubtedly been the most terable battle ever fought on this continant. Our
                                    folks have been buring the dead for three days, and yet there are hundreds unburied.
                                    They [are] begining [to] putrify and the whole woods stinks with dead men &
                                    horses. It makes my heart ach to see the horid sight But I suppose this is war in
                                    good earnest I hope you will excuse this bad writing as I have nothing to write on.
                                    I write when ever I can get chance and hope to be able to send it to you soon, but
                                    every thing here seems to be in inextrible confusion—No Post
                                    Office—No nothing but men and guns
                        Our troops are in the advance on the road to Corinth, and it keeps us on the look out
                                    all the time. I have not been out of camp since we came here I do hope we will make
                                    an advance soon as I am tiard of laying here in the mud.
                        Take good care of the childern and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                        Direct your letters to 
                                        Louisville
                                     care of Gen'l Wood 6th Division
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "Battle Field of Chiloh," near
                              Pittsburg Landing, 
                                    Tenn
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 14. 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        I am geting very anxious to hear from you, as I have not herd one thing from you
                                    since we left 
                                        Nashville
                                    
                        
                        
                           
                              22 See note 17.
                        
                        
                        We are begining to get into some kind of shape, altho our baggage has not come up
                                    yet. All we have to eat is Hard crackers and pork with a little weak coffee. We use
                                    the crackers for plates and our fingers for forks. We have one tin plate in the mess
                                    which we put the meet on. Lewis, our cook, found an old Dutch oven which he uses to
                                    fry the meet in, and a camp kettle to make the coffee in. We have plenty such as it
                                    is, and a good appetite makes us relish it, or at least I do for I am kept very
                                    buissy and have but little time to think about what we have to eat. Schlater23 and some of the other boys have been sick and the General has
                                    complained some
                        I got on the battle field about twelve o'clock on Monday24 and remained in untill four in the evening when the rebals gave way. I have
                                    herd much of battle fields and read much of them, but I had no conception of what it
                                    was. The hotest time here was about one or two oclock on Monday. The roar of both
                                    cannon and musketry was terable and unseasing. The fight was mostly in the woods,
                                    and the twigs and limbs and splinters were flying in every directions. Every way you
                                    looked were dead men. The most horid sight I saw was where five poor [?] secesh were
                                    laying hudeled up to gether, their bodies mangled by a cannon ball. On one spot
                                    where the fight had been desperate I am confident there were fifty dead and wounded
                                    men on a spot of ground not larger than our door [?] yard. At a hospital about a
                                    mile from our cam[p] there were 114 dead secesh laid out that they could not take
                                    away or bury. But it is useless to particularise, for look in what way you would for
                                    miles and dead men greeted your eyes. How could it have been otherwise after two
                                    days hard fighting where not less than 50.000 men were engaged on a side in such a
                                    deadly conflict.25
                        
                        Our loss in killed will not be far from 1.000 and in wounded about 3. to 4.000. I
                                    think we lost about 3.000 prisners. The rebals had not less than 2.500 and God only
                                    knows how many wounded. I dont know how many prisners we took, but probally about
                                        50026
                        
                        I will write you every chance I get and you must write to me at least two or three
                                    times a week, for you have no idea how much pleasure it gives me to hear from you.
                        
                           
                              23 Captain William H. Schlater served with Lennard on
                                        Wood's staff as assistant adjutant general and wrote Wood's
                                        General Orders No. 32 congratulating his troops on their small part in the 
                                            Shiloh
                                         battle. Official Records, Vol. X, part 1, p. 379.
                           
                              24 See note 16.
                           
                              25 See note 12.
                           
                              26 See note 17.
                        
                        
                        The boys in the 36th did nobally. Every one speaks well of their conduct. They were
                                    on our left about a mile and half from where I was. The indignation here aganest
                                    Gen'l Grant is terable for allowing himself to be surprised. If
                                    Buell's Army had not come to his rescue just when it did, this would have
                                    been a "Bull run" on a magnifacent scale.27
                        
                        Tell me in your next whether you received the $100 I sent you by Col
                                        Bridgland28
                        
                        It is growing late and I must close, by hoping that this may soon reach you and that
                                    it may find you and our dear little ones well and happy. Give your self no trouble
                                    about me for I dont think the bullet is made yet that is to kill me. For they were
                                    whizing around me freely on Monday last without touching me, altho I was up clost,
                                    for I wanted to see the fight.
                        So dear wife good night and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battle Field of Chiloh
                           
                                    April 17. 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        Your very kind and loving letters of Mar 30th and April 
                              
                                 27 Involved controversy and criticism of Grant
                                            followed 
                                                Shiloh
                                            , and Buell's men did believe that they had rescued the
                                            Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Buell's account of the battle in Johnson and Buel,
                                                Battles and Leaders, I, 487, states that Grant was
                                            carelessly unprepared for the Confederate attack on April 6.
                                            Grant's account in the same work, 465, 466, indicates that he felt
                                            the battle was "more persistently misunderstood, than any other
                                            engagement between National and Confederate troops during the entire
                                            rebellion." Grant claimed that he was shunned by Halleck after the
                                            battle and was not allowed to see Buell's report until it was
                                            published long after. The First Battle of Bull Run, or Manassas, was fought
                                            in 
                                                Virginia
                                             on July 21, 1861, about thirty miles southwest of 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C. The Union force commanded by Major General Irvin McDowell
                                            was routed from the battlefield by the Confederate Army commanded by
                                            Brigadier General Beauregard, and the term "Bull Run" came
                                            to connote the Union humiliation in that first large battle of the Civil
                                            War. For a description of the battle and its consequences see Bruce Catton,
                                                This Hallowed Ground: The Story of the Union Side of the
                                                Civil War (
                                                New York
                                            , 1956), 44-48.
                              
                                 28 A Colonel Bridgland appears in several of the
                                            Lennard letters although never with a given name. He is probably John A.
                                            Bridgland of the Second Indiana Cavalry who on January 12, 1862, was
                                            assigned to the Fourth Division of the Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Official Records, Vol. LII, part 1, p. 203.
                                            At the Battle of 
                                                Shiloh
                                             Bridgland's regiment was attached to the Fourth
                                            Division. Johnson and Buel, Battles and Leaders, I, 538.
                                            Since both the Fourth and Sixth divisions were in the Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             and Lennard was aide-de-camp to Wood of the Sixth, it is likely
                                            that Lennard knew John A. Bridgland and that he is the Colonel Bridgland
                                            referred to in the letters.
                           
                                     6th have come to hand, and after the terable
                                    ordial through which I have passed in the last two weeks without hearing from you,
                                    you can scarce imagin the great pleasure it gave me to hear from you. I was very
                                    glad to hear the childern were having the measels while they are young and at home
                                    where I know the[y] will have the care and attention of kind Mother. Many a poor [?]
                                    soldier now sleeps his last sleep from that simple, but fatle disease It gave me
                                    great pleasure to see John Grubbs, Powell, Shirk29 and many
                                    others of my acquaintence here looking after our wellfare on this terable battle
                                    field. It makes us feel that we are not forgotten by those at home. I took Powell
                                    around a good deal that he might be able to tell you something of what we see every
                                    day & hour. Every one is praying to be moved from this terable scene of
                                    death and distruction. I think if we are not soon moved many will be sick
                        I suppose certainly by this time you have received the $100—1
                                    sent you by Col Bridgland
                        I am glad you are fixing up our home and making things look neat and sweet. I feel
                                    that every thing will be nice and in good style when I come home
                        We had a little brush with the enemy on the next day after the battle here when I
                                    captured two negros who had been cooking for the 9th 
                                        Arkansas
                                     Regt.30 One of them, "Dick,"31 I 
                              
                                 29 These three men were not in the army, but since
                                            they appeared on the battlefield to aid the suffering soldiers, it is
                                            possible that they were members of the Indiana Sanitary Commission. The 
                                                United States
                                             Sanitary Commission was a private charitable organization
                                            recognized by an executive order of President Lincoln in 1861. It served as
                                            a civilian medical relief corps and was a forerunner of the Red Cross.
                                            Indiana was one of the states that had had its own state sanitary commission
                                            to bring additional succor to the regiments. William Q. Maxwell, Lincoln's Fifth Wheel: The Political History of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Sanitary Commission (
                                                New York
                                            , 1956), viii-9, 101. A John W. Grubbs was the printer for the 
                                                New Castle
                                            
                                            Courier in 1853 when Lennard was editor.
                                            "Powell" probably is Simon T. Powell (1821-1901), a 
                                                New Castle
                                             resident who is mentioned in several of Lennard's
                                            letters. "Shirk" probably is Benjamin Shirk who lived a
                                            few doors from Lennard and who in 1860 was 
                                                Henry county
                                             clerk. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules for 
                                                Henry county
                                            , Indiana.
                              
                                 30 No report has been found of a brush with the enemy
                                            or of Lennard's capturing two Negroes from an 
                                                Arkansas
                                             regiment. Wood's Sixth Division was ordered on April 8
                                            to make a reconnaissance several miles in advance of the Federal forces on
                                            the enemy's line of retreat. This is possibly when the two Negroes
                                            were captured. Official Records, Vol. X, part 1, p. 378.
                              
                                 31 At the time of Lennard's death the 
                                                New Castle
                                            
                                            Courier carried a letter, dated 
                                                New Castle
                                            , May 29, 1864, from a Richard Lamb who stated: "I have
                                            the honor to say to the Union friends of this vicinity, that Colonel Geo. W.
                                            Lennard who was killed near Dalton, Ga. that I accompanied him through the
                                            siege of
                           
                                     have appropriated to my own use. He is rather a
                                    smart good negro, and says he will stick to me while he lives. The other one, "
                                        Monroe
                                    ," the General32 clames If some one dont
                                    steal Dick from me I will fetch him home with me and set him free. And if posible I
                                    will do the same by 
                                        Monroe
                                     Just imagin how Gertie & Sailie would look if Pa was to bring a
                                    negro home with him from the war. Pite and Simon both wanted 
                                        Monroe
                                    , but the General refused to let him go. My "John"
                                    horse is very much out of fix just now He got a terable scare among a lot of dead
                                    men and horses one dark night when I was out Posting Pickets.
                        If mother should want that Interest you must try and pay it to her, as I dont know
                                    when I will get any more money. But as soon as I do get any I will send you some.
                        Our Head Quarters baggage has come up and we are beginning to have things a little
                                    better, but not atal comfortable. Most every one is complaining more or less, mostly
                                    diarrhoea I feel sometimes if I had you to make me a little boiled milk and bread
                                    with Pepper in it, it would do me good, but we cant have these little dainties at
                                    all times in the army
                        I dont recollect whether the $2.90 act. is right or not, but I suppose you
                                    had better pay it as soon as you can. I dont want to roug [?] any man out of one
                                    cent in this world
                        I suppose you have read many discriptions of this battle. But the real thing its self
                                    beggers all description. Every once in a while I can hear the mighty roar of cannon
                                    and musketry, and the schrill whistle of shells and bullets, the mighty rush of men
                                    to the deadly conflict, the dead on every side, the wounded born off of the field by
                                    their comrades, ammunition wagons and officers on horseback dashing and whorling in
                                    every direction, all combining to make a scene of terable grandure such as I never
                                    expect to see agane in this world
                        Every one says the 36th did well and fought bravely. I was very glad to hear it. I
                                    see them nearly every day. Pite wants to go home, but I dont think he will get to go
                                    very soon and I begin to fear this war will not be over very soon, but I hope for
                                    the best.
                        
                           Corinth, Miss., Perrysville, Ky., Stone river, Tenn., as a body
                                        servant…. I shall ever regret the loss of my best friend who brought
                                        me to the land of liberty." An editor's note added that Lamb
                                        was a young black man who had attended school the previous winter in 
                                            New Castle
                                        . He had asked the editor to put the letter in proper style. 
                                            New Castle
                                        
                                        Courier, June 16, 23, 1864.
                           
                              32 Probably Thomas J. Wood for whom Lennard was
                                        aide-de-camp.
                        
                        
                        The 57th did well in fight and would have taken a Battery only they were ordered to
                                        halt.33 I suppose you would like to know how I felt in the
                                    battle. Well, the battle only lasted four hours after I came up and for the first
                                    hour I felt like as tho I was going to a funeral where a dozen of my best friends
                                    were to be buried, but about that time I came across General McCook34 who shook my hand so cordially and appeared to be so jolly that it took all
                                    of the gloom off of me, and from that time on untill the rebals retreated a [I] felt
                                    nothing more than a healthy excitement such as felt at an exciting Steam Boat race
                                    or something of the kind But when the rebals commenced retreating I felt
                                    particularly good and happy, for I would prefer having them run from me than to be
                                    shooting at me
                        To give you an idea how much exausted I was afeter the battle was over and night had
                                    come on I droped down by a log with a blanket over me about fifty yards in the rear
                                    of where the men were resting on their arms in line of battle and fell a sleep where
                                    I slept untill morning, altho about 9 oclock Gen'ls Buell and Wood moved
                                    the men back about 250 yards to a safer position thereby leaving me 200 in advance
                                    of our forces. The boys say they called me twice and that I answered them both
                                    times, but I have no recollection of it whatever. However, no secesh got a hold of
                                    me and so it turns out well, but the boys endevor to bone me about sleeping on
                                    Picket duty.
                        Tell the Major General35 that Pa will see that Gertie lets him
                                    knit when he comes home I suppose by this time Henry and Gertie are well and going
                                    to school
                        Nothing more but remain as ever your loving and affectionate husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  33 The Fifty-seventh Indiana Infantry's role at 
                            Shiloh
                         is not clear. See note 16 for Wagner's report. One account states that the
                        whole Sixth Division was excluded in counting the Federal effectives because none of
                        "it got within reach of the Confederates …." Livermore, Numbers and Losses, 79n. Colonel Cyrus Hall of the Fourteenth 
                            Illinois
                         Infantry of the Second Brigade of Brigadier General Stephen A. Hurlbut's
                        Fourth Division of the Army of the 
                            Tennessee
                         reported that on April 7 he was ordered forward in the afternoon to relieve a
                        portion of Buell's army, among which was the Fifty-seventh Indiana which was ordered to
                        fall back. This may be what Lennard refers to. Official Records, Vol. X, part
                        1, p. 224.
               
                  34 Alexander McDowell McCook commanded the Second Division of the Army of
                        the 
                            Ohio
                         at 
                            Shiloh
                        , and Lennard would be known to him. Johnson and Buel, Battles and
                            Leaders, I, 538.
               
                  35 In his letter of June 10, 1862, Lennard in referring to his children
                        says: "Sailie who like topsy just naturally growed, and is now a Major Gen'l
                        without anyone paying much attention to him." George W. Lennard to Clarinda Lennard,
                        June 10, 1862, Lennard Papers.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battle Field of 
                                    Shiloh
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 18. 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        As you will see from this we are still on the bloody field 
                                        Shiloh
                                    . I have been in the saddle nearly all day with
                                    Gen'l's Buell and Wood examining the country around here and
                                    looking up suitable ground to camp on. The country is very rough, and as we have to
                                    preserve an unbroken front to the enemy, it is difficult to place so large an army
                                    as we have here now. We had a very hard rain here this evening, most of which I was
                                    out in, but I care nothing for myself if the poor soldiers could be comfortable, for
                                    I have a change of clothing and somebody to wate on me and do my cooking, which many
                                    of them have not.
                        On yesterday when I wrote you I was quite unwell, but am very well this evening. I
                                    think the water and filth of this camp has caused much sickness which I hope will be
                                    remadied by the time this reaches you by a forward movement, when I think you will
                                    hear some startling news from these parts. Gen'l Hal-lack36 is here himself which is a suficent guarantee that there is something to be
                                    done big with importance to the nation and the sooner the better is my belief
                        The enemy is still in heavy force about six miles in our front, but there is no
                                    skirmishing as nether party seem disposed to wast their powder in a small way.
                        I have received nothing from you since yours of the 6th inst. but am anxiously
                                    looking and hoping. You must not fail to write at least twice a week whether you
                                    receive anything from me or not, as at is frequently so that I cant write to you for
                                    a week or two.
                        It is growing very late and so I must close with an earnest prare for the health and
                                    hapiness of you and our dear little ones
                        
                                    Your loving husband
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  36 At the time of the Battle of 
                            Shiloh
                        , Major General Henry W. Halleck commanded the Department of the 
                            Mississippi
                         with headquarters in 
                            St. Louis
                        . A few days after the battle he went to Pittsburg Landing and assumed field command
                        of the Federal forces facing Beauregard at Corinth. Johnson and Buel, Battles and
                            Leaders, I, 465, 466.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Field of 
                                    Shiloh, Tenn
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 20th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        We have had two days of gloomy wet weather, and to night it is still raining with
                                    little prospect of clearing up. I have been around among the troops of our Division
                                    to day and find them in rather a sory condition. We moved our camp on Friday evening
                                    and before the tents were pitched the rain came on and wet the ground. It appears to
                                    me I never saw so much wet weather as we have had this spring.
                        Gen'l Wood and Capt Schlater have been unwell for some days, The
                                    Gen'l is geting better, however. My health is good altho I have been
                                    exposed a good deal of late. I think temperate habits have kept me up.
                        I was over at the 36th to day a little while. Col Grose37 is
                                    complaining some. I did not see Pite, as he was out with the regiment on
                                    "Picket Duty". He was complaining some when I saw him last, but he
                                    is better now. The regiment will be paid now in a day or two. I am glad of it for
                                    they have wated a long time.
                        I wrote to Mother yesterday and told her if she needed the interest now due before I
                                    got the money to send her to call on you. If she calls on you try and pay her, as I
                                    suppose she will not call on you unless she needs it badly. I have not received my
                                    clothing yet, but in all probability will soon
                        The account of the battle here published in the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Gazett of the 14th writen by "Agate" is a very fair one and will give you the best
                                    idea of any thing I have seen, altho it Dont give Gen'l Woods Division as
                                    much credit as it should. Where he speaks of Col Wagoners 15 Ind it should be the
                                    57th Ind.38
                        
                        Meny of the officers are very sick of soldering and talk of resigning. As for my part
                                    I enlisted for the war, and expect to stick it out let come what will. I think if
                                    the poor soldiers can stand it I can, and I will not desert them in this hour of
                                    trial.
                        I dont think after this terable rain storm we can move from here as soon as I told
                                    you in my last.
                        
                           
                              37 William Grose was a prominant 
                                            New Castle
                                         lawyer and judge who accepted the colonelcy of the Thirty-sixth
                                        Indiana Volunteer Infantry in 1861 and eventually rose to major general of
                                        volunteers in 1865. Dictionary of American Biography, VIII,
                                        16; Heitman, Historical Register, I, 481.
                           
                              38 The Colonel Wagoner referred to here must be George D.
                                        Wagner who was colonel of the Fifteenth Indiana Infantry but who, at 
                                            Shiloh
                                        , commanded the Twenty-first Brigade of Wood's Sixth
                                        Division. The Fifty-seventh Indiana was also in that brigade. For
                                        Wagner's report, in which he commended the Fifty-seventh, see note
                                    16.
                        
                        
                        I have been wating very anxiously to receive a letter from you, but to date I have
                                    received nothing late than the 6th inst
                        Hoping to hear from you soon and that this may find you and the little ones well and
                                    happy, I am, as ever, your loving and affectionate husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                        Have you reed the $100. I sent by Bridgland?
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battle Field of 
                                    Shiloh
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 22d 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        A clear and beautiful sun rose this morning after three days of cloud and rain and
                                    mud and gloom. The birds in the green trees welcomed the bright morning with song
                                    and melody. Once more the poor soldiers begin to move about with life and animation.
                                    Such is the influence of pleasent weather on every thing around us.
                        An occasional gun is herd to crack and reverberate through the woods, keeping the
                                    camp nervous and anxious, as the enemy is but a few miles to our front and we dont
                                    know what break he may take, or what hour he may come, but come when he will he will
                                    have a warmer reception than he did on that lovely Sabbath morning he came here
                                    before.
                        The terrable rains we have had here will delay our movements for some days as the
                                    roads are at this time impassable for Artillery, and without that arm of the service
                                    I dont think we would be safe in attacking the rebs We are looking for
                                    Gen'l Pope39 here on tomorrow with his command, by the
                                    way I have just this moment learned that his army is here now, so you see we are
                                    strong enough for the rebs now, and when we get at them they will ether be whiped,
                                    or have to run. Sam is at Savanah.40 I have not seen him for
                                    several days.
                        
                           
                              39 Major General John Pope commanded the Army of the 
                                            Mississippi
                                         which was ordered to join Grant's and Buell's
                                        armies under the personal command of Halleck in the siege of Corinth. Dictionary of American Biography, XV, 76.
                           
                              40 Although his surname never appears in
                                        Lennard's letters, "Sam" is clearly Samuel Hazzard
                                        (1815-1867) who was married to Clarinda Woodward Lennard's sister, 
                                            Vienna
                                        , and who lived next door to the Lennards. He was the father of
                                        George Hazzard who wrote Hazzard's History of 
                                                Henry county
                                            . U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules of 
                                            Henry county
                                        , Indiana; Hazzard, History of 
                                                Henry county
                                            
                              , II, 992, 993. Savannah, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , Grant's headquarters, was about eight miles north of
                                        Pittsburg Landing on the east bank of the Tennessee
                                    River.
                        
                        
                        I have not received a letter from you since yours of the 6th inst. What can be the
                                    matter? Nether have the cloths come to hand, but I expect to go to Savanah tomorrow
                                    to look after them. Tell Henry and Gertie they have not answered my letters yet and
                                    I begin to think they are neglecting me to a greater extent than I did them. I wish
                                    you would make every effort posible to collect up the small debts, but dont sue any
                                    one if you can posibly help it.
                        I think after we shall have taken Corinth and 
                                        Memphis
                                    
                           41 we can give some idea when this war will close. I
                                    will give you my opinion then which no doubt will be a setler. But I can see no
                                    daylight now—all is darkness for a speedy termination of the war
                        Dick is still with me and says he is going to stick to me untill after the war sure
                        
                        Write often—my love to all and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                        I think you had better direct to me in this way Capt Geo. W. Lennard
                                    Care of Gen'l Wood 6 Division Army of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Tennessee
                                    
                            Via Cairo 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Field of 
                                    Shiloh
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    April 27th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara:
                        Sabbath as it is I have been busy all day posting and visiting the Pickets in front
                                    of our Division. We hardly know when Sunday comes in the army. We have to keep our
                                    lamps well trimed and filled with oil for we know not what hour the bridegroom may
                                    come. Every thing has been quiet in front for several days, but the storm may burst
                                    upon us at any hour. Our most advanced camps are about five miles from the Landing.
                        I was down at Savanah a few days ago to see if my clothing had come, but could hear
                                    nothing of them. I suppose they will 
                              
                                 41 On June 6, 1862, the Union ram fleet attacked the
                                            Confederate fleet on the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             and took 
                                                Memphis
                                            . Johnson and Buel, Battles and Leaders, I,
                                            456-58.
                           
                                     not be sent from 
                                        Nashville
                                     unless I send a special order which I think I will not send untill the
                                    little dispute is settled about Corinth and 
                                        Memphis
                                    . If it should be settled in our faivor, which I dont doubt for a
                                    moment, I will order them to the most convenient place
                        Sam is at Savanah in the employ of Capt Cannon,42 Post Quarter
                                    Master at that place. He is still drinking some. I think I will be able to send you
                                    some money in a few days, but it is poor encouragement to send when I cannot hear
                                    whether the last I sent you ever reached you or not.
                        I have not herd from you since yours of the 6th inst. The mails are very iregular
                                    here. I herd to day that Pite was not well. Rheumatism is said to be his complaint,
                                    with, probally, a little homesickness. Quite a number of our officers &
                                    soldiers are complaining or sick. I think however, as soon as we get on the move
                                    agane the health of the entire army will improve.
                        My health is very good, and my most constant regret is that all my fellow soldiers
                                    cannot enjoy the same heavenly blessing.
                        Give my love to all, especially our dear little ones, and beleave me, dear wife, as
                                    ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Field of 
                                    Shiloh, Tenn
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 28th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        Your loving letter of the 20th inst came to hand to day and you can scarce imagin the
                                    pleasure it gave me to learn that you and our dear little ones were well. You must
                                    try and be more cheerful and not look on the dark side of the picture I have but one
                                    time to die, and if it is my lot to fall in this great contest to save my country
                                    why, I am not going to die in apprehension or in antisipation of death.
                                    "Sufficent unto the day is the evel thereof." Such is my feelings
                                    this evening.
                        You speak of Sailie sleeping by your side. Not a day or a night passes over but what
                                    I visit you and see the little chubby 
                              
                                 42 This could be Captain John R. Cannon of the
                                            Thirty-eighth Indiana Volunteer Infantry which in April, 1862, was part of
                                            the Seventh Independent Brigade, Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Heitman, Historical Register, I, 280; Dyer,
                                                Compendium, I, 136. The Seventh Independent Brigade
                                            did not go to 
                                                Shiloh
                                             with the Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Johnson and Buel, Battles and Leaders, I,
                                            538.
                           
                                     fellow enjoying his sweet innocent
                                    slumber—I see Henry runing down the pavement, out of the gate and up or
                                    down the road to play with the little boys—I see Gertie frisking about
                                    and provoking you to go home with Bell Woodward43 &c
                                    &c—I see you going about your daily routine duties, ever
                                    watchfull and carefull of every thing. Arabell44 is there to,
                                    lending her industrious hand to make all comfortable and happy, Bell Hazzard45 is moving quietly and misteriously about—then I
                                    see Grand Pa, poor old man, anxious and tiard, coming in and Sailie clamering over
                                    him—then Grand Ma, cane in hand, quietly peeps in &c &c,
                                    so if you dont get to see me, I get to see you often
                        On tomorrow morning we agan take up the line of march for Corrinth or some place else
                                    in search of the enemy. And if we have to fight, I say the sooner the better. If the
                                    enemy stands at Corrinth, before this reaches you, you will have herd the result.
                        I wrote to you last night. To day I received my pay to the 1st of May, and the first
                                    chance I have I will send you $250.00 Write often whether you hear from
                                    me or not, as your letters will reach me some time
                        Hoping this may reach you soon and find you all well and happy, I am, as ever, your
                                    loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near 
                                    Shiloh
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 1st 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        I herewith send you $250.00 which you may apply on the Comstock debt or as
                                    you may think best. I will send this by a Mr McDanal of 
                                        Dayton
                                     who will Express it to you
                        
                           
                              43 Bell Woodward was probably one of the three children of
                                        Pyrrhus and Mary Woodward and thus a niece of Clarinda Woodward Lennard.
                           
                              44 The 1860 census shows an "Arabel
                                        Gohene," aged thirty-three as a member of the Lennard household. She
                                        was probably a hired woman. In his letter of December 2, 1861, Lennard wrote:
                                        "if Arabell is gone away to stay any time you should get some other
                                        good girl to stay with you." Years later an Arabella Goheen carried on
                                        correspondence with Asahel Lennard and seemed to be somewhat dependent on him.
                                        Some of these letters written in the 1890s are in the possession of the editors.
                                        U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules of 
                                            Henry county
                                        , Indiana.
                           
                              45 Belle Hazzard was the eleven-year-old daughter of Sam
                                        Hazzard and thus a niece of Clarinda Lennard. Ibid.
                           
                        
                        
                        We only moved about six miles from our former Camp. We will probally move tomorrow,
                                    or next day. I think we will be in Corrinth before this reaches you. I will write in
                                    a day or two agane when I hope to have more time as I am very busy at this time
                        I have not herd whether you ever received the money I sent you by Col Bridgland.
                                    Inform me as soon as you receive this
                        My love to all and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp
                           
                                    May 3d 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        We are encamped nine miles from Corrinth in a beautiful grove close by a primitive
                                    church called Olivi.46 We are ordered to have three days of
                                    cooked rations prepared for the men to night, with the intimation, Sunday as it is
                                    to-morrow, that we will move on Corrinth Gen'l Pope had a sharp little
                                    encounter with the enemy this evening which lasted about one hour.47 I have not herd the result I dont think our folks want to bring on the
                                    battle tomorrow as it is Sunday, for there appears to be some dread of Sunday
                                    attacks
                        In case any thing should happen [to] me, that I dont get back to see you any more, my
                                    wish is that you educate the childern well—Let each of them be a graduate
                                    of some Litter-ary Institution for what little I have would not do them much good
                                    only in the way of educating them. Be very careful and strict with Gertie for she is
                                    inclined to be wild and headstrong. I dont think you will have much trouble with the
                                    boys. Collect up what is due me as fast as you can without distressing any one and
                                    pay off all the debts, and keep the balance on interest. I think after paying all
                                    indebtedness there will be about $2.500= left, which at 10 pr cent
                                    interest with the rent of the two farms will keep you nicely and educate the
                                    childern.
                        I sent you $250= which I hope will reach you in safety. I gave it to a Mr
                                    Chas A McDaniel of 
                                        Dayton
                                        Ohio
                                    . Pleas write 
                              
                                 46 In his letter of May 5, 1862, Lennard refers to
                                            this as Olivet.
                              
                                 47 Major General Pope reported that on May 3 his
                                            forces encountered a Confederate force of 4,500 men at Farmington, attacked
                                            them, and "after a sharp skirmish carried the position in handsome
                                            style." Official Records, Vol. X, part 1, pp.
                                            801, 802. Lennard probably refers to this battle.
                           
                                     to me as soon as you receive it. My health is
                                    good. Pite is a little out of fix with the Rheumatism. The 36th & 57th will
                                    be with us in the battle
                        Now, give yourself no trouble about me for I will come out safe, but we dont know
                                    what may happen
                        Every little once in a while we can hear fireing over in Popes Command.
                        So now dear wife good by. I will give you the earliest intelligince of what is my
                                    fate in this contest, that I can. My love to our dear little ones.
                        
                                    Your loving husband
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near
                              Olivet Church
                           
                                    May 5th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        When I last wrote you two evenings ago I expected by this time to be in the full
                                    blaze of battle before the enemys works at Corrinth, but owing to the very heavy
                                    rains that have fallen rendering the roads impassable for Artillery, we have had to
                                    defer our advance. We had every thing packed up and some of the troops commenced
                                    moving, but they had to be called back, and we are now encamped on the same spot we
                                    were when I wrote you on the 3d inst.
                        I received your very welcom and very interesting letters of the 24th & 27th,
                                    April, this evening You can scarcse imagin the pleasure it gave me to read the
                                    childerns expressions about Dick. I called "Dick" up and read it
                                    to him. It pleased the "nigger" hugely. He says he will sing Dixie
                                    for Henry and make all kinds of little "triggers" for Sailie, and
                                    then do what ever Gertie wishes him to. So if "Dick" and I get
                                    home safe you may expect some fun.
                        Sam is down at Savanah I learn he is drinking some all the time. He is in the employ
                                    of Capt Cannon at what wages I am unable to say. The enclosed letter fell into my
                                    hands accidentally and I send it to you, but you must keep it a profound secret. Col
                                    Grose and I are on the best of terms and I hope we may ever remain so. I only showed
                                    Simon that portion of your letter where you said Col Grose had spoken lightly of
                                    Gen'l Wood, and wondered what he could mean by it, as the Gen'l
                                         has always spoken well of him. Grose is now
                                    in command of a brigade48 and Gen'l Nelson speaks
                                    highly of him. I hope he may succeed well.
                        I sent you $250—which I hope has reached you in safety ere
                                    this. We are going to have a big fight at Corrinth when it does come off. Both sides
                                    are staking every thing on it. But if we get fairly at them they must come down.
                        Give my love to our dear little ones and all others, and believe me, Dear wife, when
                                    I say I am as ever your loving
                        
                                    Husband
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp, near
                              Corinth, Miss
                           
                                    May 8th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara:
                        Here we are within six miles of Corinth and no blood shed yet, and the worst of it is
                                    we don't know whether the enemy is there or not. Our folks are closing up
                                    on them with great care. I hardly think there will be another surprise in our army.
                                    But if they have left Corinth we will know it tomorrow. And if they have not we will
                                    be fighting in good earnest by the 10th inst., and you will probally know the result
                                    before this reaches you, and anyhow, this will be the last you will hear from me
                                    untill the thing is settled on[e] way or the other.
                        I received the Courier you sent me this evening, and read it
                                    through advertisements and all. I noticed particularly the marrage of Joshua
                                    Williams which was news to me. I hope Joshua had a good time of it.
                        I saw Pite yesterday. His health is improving. The whole regiment is in a better
                                    condition than it was. The Col is a brigade commander and he feels the better of it
                        We are in just such a state of suspense at this time as to whether Corinth is
                                    evacuated or not that I scarsely know what, or how to write.
                        Dick and the John horse are well, and I never enjoyed better health in my life; so
                                    hoping you and the children are enjoying the same blessing, I am as ever your loving
                                    husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  48 On May 2, 1862, Grose assumed temporary command of the Tenth Brigade of
                        Nelson's Fourth Division, Army of the 
                            Ohio
                        . Ibid., 684.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp, near
                              Corinth, Miss.
                           
                                    May 12th 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        Little did I expect when I wrote you one week a go that the great contest at Corinth
                                    would be undecided at this time, but here we are within a mile or two of the enemy
                                    and not as much prospect of an imediate atack now as there was then. The great snake
                                    is gradually coiling its self around Corinth. It is better to make a sure thing of
                                    whiping them bad and taking them here if it takes us a month longer than to be
                                    following them all over the South, unless the enemy atack us, this will reach you
                                    before the great battle.
                        Yours of the 4th inst. has just been received. I dont think there is any dainger of
                                    trouble between Col Grose and myself, or any one else about what I showed Powell.
                                    But be very careful what you write to me, for it is probable I will be showing it to
                                    Powell and the human family generally.
                        I will send Mother the money due her from here, as I have frequent oppertunities to
                                    send to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . I received a letter from home a few days ago. Father is gradually
                                    wasting a way. They have information at home that brother Jeramiah is Capt of a
                                    Company from 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .49 It is likely he is at Corinth. The weather is
                                    very warm here now, and we have had no rain for a week. The roads are geting very
                                    good again. I [saw] George Hazzard to day. He looks well so does List Powell.50 We are about one mile apart
                        I hope the money I sent you [by] McDannel has reached you But I have some fear about
                                    it as he staid about Camp several days after I gave it to him
                        What do Henry and Gertie have to say for themselves? What are they doing, and what do
                                    they do? You speak of Sailie but say nothing about them.
                        The Gen'l says his wife writes to him that she is just dieing by inches to
                                    see him, and [he] wants to see her They write 
                              
                                 49 Lennard mentions having two brothers in the
                                            Confederate service, Jeremiah and Lerman, who was "acting as
                                            Quarter Master in a 
                                                Louisiana
                                             Regiment." George W. Lennard to Clarinda Lennard, June
                                            11, 1862, Lennard Papers.
                              
                                 50 List Powell was Orlistus W., son of Simon T.
                                            Powell. List was a sergeant in the Thirty-sixth Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                            and was killed at Chickamauga, September 20, 1863, when not yet nineteen
                                            years of age. Gravestone, South Mound Cemetery.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            BUILDING BREASTWORKS BEFORE CORINTH. SKETCH BY EDWIN J.
                                                MEEKER.
                                        
                              Reproduced from Stephen W. Sears, ed., American Heritage Century Collection
                                            of Civil War Art (
                                                New York
                                            , 1974). 85.
                           
                                     every day.51 I think your
                                    letters all reach me sooner or later so dont despare in writing they will come some
                                    time, and be good when I get them. I have not reed my clothing yet. I begin to need
                                    them very much.
                        My love to the childern and believe me as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                        May 13. As I did not get to send this this morning, I will add that I am
                                    well and busy. I saw Pite to day he is some better, but I think he will get a
                                    Furlough in a few days to come home. The boys in the 36 are generally well. I reed a
                                    letter from Mr Bell to day. Tell him I will answer it soon. There is some fighting
                                    here nearly every day. The army is so large here that part of it may be engaged
                                    without the other knowing any thing of it My love to all. write soon and believe me
                                    as even your loving husband Geo W. Lennard 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near
                              Corinth Miss
                           
                                    May 18th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara
                        Another holy Sabath day has come and gone with its many trials and troubles. All day
                                    there has been more or less fireing among the Pickets and several skirmishes. We are
                                    liable to attack or be attacked at any moment. I am shure we cannot remain [in] this
                                    condition many days without hard fighting for we are only three miles from Corinth
                                    and about one mile from their entrenchments So, you see the ball must open in good
                                    earnest soon But what ever is to be our fate let it come. We are as well prepared
                                    now as we will ever be.
                        I saw Pite this morning and he informs me that he has a Furlough for thirty days but
                                    will not go home untill the battle is over. So he will probally be able to give you
                                    the first account of who is saved and who is lost
                        I have been anxiously looking for a letter from you, as I have herd nothing since
                                    yours of the 4th inst. My health is 
                              
                                 51 General Wood was a recent bridegroom, having
                                            married Caroline E. Greer of 
                                    Dayton, Ohio
                                 , on November 29, 1861, in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Dictionary of American Biography, XX,
                                        475.
                           
                                     good, but the work is hard, as I have to be out
                                    to the front with the troops when ever there is any excitement or fireing in or
                                    about the Camp
                        The weather is very warm and dry here now and I am without Summer clothing. But I
                                    dont want any thing or care for any thing untill this grand contest is over
                        I hardly know what to write on the eve of so important a crisis as this. All that I
                                    can say is that I am hopeful and confident. I feel that I will come out safe, but
                                    let what will be my fate I intend to meat it like a soldier should and leave no
                                    disgrace on you or our dear little ones. Give Pas love to Henry Gertie and Sailie.
                                    Remember me to the rest of our household and believe me, dear wife, to be as ever
                                    your loving and affectionate husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near
                              Corinth, Miss
                           
                                    May 29. 1862
                                
                        Dear Wife
                        Your very welcom letter of the 18th inst came duly to hand and my only wish is that
                                    you would write oftener, even if you have nothing to write about [but] household
                                    affairs, birds, flowers &c &c. When you can't think of any
                                    thing else to write about give me the conversation and antics of the childern.
                        I am sory you have not reed, the $250=. If you have not received it when
                                    this comes to hand write to Charles A. McDaniel of 
                              Dayton, Ohio
                           , for an explanation I think he is a very nice young
                                    man, but probally has missent the package. Money sent in his care by Gen'l
                                    Wood and others arived safely about the 13th inst. The boy is wating for this
                                    letter. I am well & hope this may find you enjoying the same blessing. We
                                    were fighting nearly all day yesterday There will be hot work here in a day or two
                        
                                    I am as ever your loving husband
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near Corinth
                           
                                    May 30th 1862
                                
                        Dear Clara:
                        The agony and tension is over—Corinth is evacuated and we are all safe.
                                    The papers will doubtless have told you all about it before this reaches you, so I
                                    need say but little about it I think it was better for us for them to evacuate, and
                                    worse for them than tho we had had a hard battle and whiped them. It demoralises
                                    their army and causes the people of the South to loose confidence in their
                                        leaders.52
                        
                        Pite will go home in a day or two and I will send by him. I want a good many things
                                    which I will send by him for. I wish you would make a visit to Fathers and take all
                                    the childern along to see their Grand Pa before he dies, as I am confident he cannot
                                    live long. If you will write to Mother or Eliza they will meet you at the Lockland
                                    Depot, and then they will take you over to Uncle Johns and from their you can go to
                                    the City and stay as long as you wish. But do as you wish about going to the City
                                    but be sure and go with the little folks to see the old people, and pay mother the
                                    interest due her, $35=. I will try and send you some money by Pite.
                        I reed $52.50 of Sams money the other day. He borrowed
                                    $5—of you and the same of me, which would leave 42.50 in my
                                    hands to be placed to his credit
                        Our Division is to march into Corinth and formally occupy it tomorrow morning. I will
                                    give you a description of what I see &c &c53
                        
                        
                           
                              52 Halleck shared Lennard's view. He wrote to
                                        Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton on May 30, 1861, that the works at Corinth
                                        were "exceedingly strong" and described the enormous loss of
                                        materiel. "General Beauregard evidently distrusts his army, or he would
                                        have defended so strong a position. His troops are generally much discouraged
                                        and demoralized." Official Records, Vol. X, part 1,
                                        p. 773. Beauregard, on the other hand, in a report of June 13, considered the
                                        evacuation a triumph. With his vastly inferior army he could not expect to hold
                                        the city, and his masterful evacuation completely surprised the Union army.
                                        "I feel authorized to say by the evacuation the plan of campaign of the
                                        enemy was utterly foiled—his delay of seven weeks and vast
                                        expenditures were of little value, and he has reached Corinth to find it a
                                        barren locality, which he must abandon as wholly worthless for his
                                        purposes." Ibid., 762, 763, 765. Beauregard also
                                        claimed that he was drawing the enemy deep into southern territory where a
                                        decisive blow could be struck. Beauregard to Brigadier General John B.
                                        Villepigue, May 28, 1862, ibid., 902.
                           
                              53 Union troops moved into the abandoned defenses of
                                        Corinth on the morning of May 30, 1862. Nelson, commanding the Fourth Division
                                        of the Army of the 
                                            Ohio
                                        , reported on May 30 that his Tenth Brigade was first into town, and
                                        Buell confirmed it on June 2. On June 7 Nelson was protesting
                        
                        
                        Give my love to Henry, Gertie, Sailie and all the members of our little household,
                                    and believe me dear wife when I tell you I would like very much to be with you all
                                    once more, never to part agane, but it cannot be so now as I begin to fear the war
                                    will be long and tedious. But I will write you more fully on this point in a few
                                    days
                        Nothing more but remain as ever your loving husband
                        
                                    Geo. W. Lennard
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               erroneous newspaper accounts giving Pope and Brigadier General William T. Sherman credit. Ibid., 680, 681. Wood in his report of the Sixth Division's role in
                        the siege commended Lennard for his "valuable services" along with others in
                        the general's personal staff. Ibid., 709.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  EUGENE V. DEBS, CANTON, OHIO, JUNE 16, 1918
               Courtesy Eugene V. Debs Papers Project, Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        .
            
            
            A Note on the Origins of Eugene V. Debs' "Bending Cross" Speech
            
                    Richard Oestreicher
                    ⋆
                
            On September 14, 1918, Judge David C. Westenhaver sentenced Eugene V. Debs to ten years in prison for
                    violation of the Espionage Act of 1917 in an antiwar speech made at Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    , June 16, 1918. Prior to the sentencing the court clerk asked Debs if he would like to
                    make a final statement.1 The resulting speech to the court was a masterpiece of
                    American oratory. Most well known is the concluding section in which Debs employed the metaphor of a
                    storm-tossed sailor to describe the people's struggle.
            
                    I can see the dawn of the better day for humanity. The people are awakening. In due time they
                        will come to their own.
                    When the mariner, sailing over tropic seas, looks for relief from his weary watch, he turns his
                        eyes toward the southern cross, burning luridly above the tempest-vexed ocean. As the midnight
                        approaches, the southern cross begins to bend, and the whirling worlds change their places, and
                        with starry finger-points, the Almighty marks the passage of time on the dial of the universe,
                        and though no bell may beat the glad tidings, the look-out knows that the midnight is
                        passing—that relief and rest are close at hand.
                    Let the people take heart and hope everywhere, for the cross is bending, the midnight is passing,
                        and joy cometh with the morning.
                    
                        "He's true to God who's true to man; wherever wrong is done,
                        To the humblest and the weakest, 'neath the all-beholding sun.
                        That wrong is also done to us, and they are slaves most base,
                        Whose love of right is for themselves and not for all the race."
                    
                    I am now prepared to receive your sentence.2
               
                
            
               
                  ⋆Richard Oestreicher is assistant professor, James 
                            Madison
                         College, 
                            Michigan
                         State University, East Lansing.
               
                  1 Still the best account of Eugene V. Debs' career is Ray Ginger,
                            The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene Victor Debs (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1949). This work was reissued in paperback as Eugene V. Debs:
                            The Making of an American Radical (
                            New York
                        , 1970). The trial is described in chapter 18.
               
                  2
                        Debs' Address to the Jury and Statement to the Court (
                            Chicago
                        , n.d.), 19-20
            
            
            Although the judge was not impressed, many of Debs' contemporaries were. Heywood Broun
                    described the speech as "one of the most beautiful and moving passages in the English
                    language. He [Debs] was for that one afternoon touched with inspiration. If anybody told me that
                    tongues of fire danced upon his shoulders as he spoke, I would believe it."3 Ray Ginger also recognized the speech as a high point of Debs' career when he used
                    a key phrase, the bending cross, as the title of his biography of Debs.
            Debs' power as an orator and essayist was based on his capacity to translate socialist
                    ideology into American idioms. Native audiences responded to him emotionally, reacting as they might
                    to a preacher at a tent meeting. "Lover of Mankind," John Dos Passos called him in
                        The 42nd Parallel, a man who wanted "a world brothers might own,
                    where everybody split even."4 Yet many of the images in Debs'
                    speeches were not original. The orator's talent lay, at least in part, in his capacity to
                    recognize the emotional potential of symbolism and allegory and history and religion as used by his
                    contemporaries. The sailor and his bending cross in the 1918 speech is an excellent example. The
                    metaphor was not Debs' creation. Early in his career Debs had been secretary treasurer of
                    the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and editor of their journal. It was at this
                    organization's 1890 convention that he possibly got the inspiration for his 1918 speech
                    from the concluding passage of a lengthy keynote address by the Honorable Tom Fitch.
            
                    And shall not the toilers come to their own? Shall not crowns and castes be abased before them,
                        and oppression and injustice and greed lost their power. Who shall doubt it? When amid the
                        howling storm the mariner, sailing over tropic seas, waits for relief from his weary watch he
                        turns his eyes toward the Southern Cross burning luridly above the tempest-vexed ocean, and as
                        the midnight approaches the Southern Cross begins to bend, the whirling worlds change their
                        places, with starry finger-points the Almighty marks the passage of time upon the dial of the
                        universe, and though no bell may beat the glad tidings, the lookout knows that the midnight is
                        well nigh past, and relief and rest are close at hand.
                    Let labor everywhere take heart of hope, for the cross is bending, the midnight is passing and
                        "joy cometh with the morning."5
               
                
            
               
                  3 Ginger, Bending Cross, 396.
               
                  4 John Dos Passos, The 42nd Parallel (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 28-29.
               
                  5
                        Journal of the Proceedings of the Second Biennial Convention of the Brotherhood of
                            Locomotive Firemen (
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind., 1890), 17.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume VI, 1857-1860: Including
                        Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough, Dorothy L. Riker, and
                    Paula Corpuz. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1978. Pp. xxxviii, 709. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Calvin Fletcher, a native of 
                        Vermont
                    , migrated to 
                        Ohio
                     in 1817. At 
                        Urbana
                     he read law, was admitted to the bar, and in 1821 married Sarah Hill. Later that year
                    the Fletchers settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the future capital of Indiana. A civic-minded lawyer, landowner, and banker, Fletcher
                    was a leading citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                     until his death in 1866.
            His diary is fragmentary for the early years, but from 1835 on it provides a systematic daily record
                    of the many and varied interests and activities of his large and prosperous family. During the four
                    years covered by this volume, Fletcher allegedly "was slowing down in all his activities
                    and taking more time to read, to contemplate, and to visit with friends and neighbors" (p.
                    ix). Nevertheless, this segment of the diary reveals a man who was still actively concerned about
                    the success and well-being of all eleven of his children, though only three of them were still at
                    home. During this period he also devoted considerable time and energy to liquidation of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch of the State Bank of Indiana, of which he was president; the establishment of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Branch Banking Company; and the acquisition of controlling interest in the 
                        Madison
                     branch of the State Bank. He was a nonsectarian supporter of organized Christianity in
                    the city, and he led the way in raising money to keep the schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     open and free after the Indiana Supreme Court declared the school tax law
                    unconstitutional. Though not optimistic about the prospects for success, he continued to work with
                    the temperance movement, and he supported actively the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society, the Widows and Orphans Society, and the 
                        Kansas
                     relief committee.
            Fletcher preserved a record of his life and work, his hopes and fears, and his successes and failures
                    in public and private relationships. The Indiana Historical Society has made that record available
                    to all and deserves the gratitude of everyone who reads it. Any person who is interested in life in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the eve of the Civil War should consult Volume VI. The editors'
                    introduction, the chronology, the explanatory footnotes, and the forty-five-page index are most
                    helpful.
            
            The editors are to be commended for their careful treatment of a manuscript that is in part barely
                    legible and for their skillful handling of the entire editorial process. The standard of excellence
                    that was established by the first volume, published in 1972, and maintained through the next four
                    volumes has been upheld.
            Frederick D. Hill, Indiana Central University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               A Home in the Woods: Pioneer Life in Indiana; Oliver Johnson's Reminiscences
                        of Early 
                            Marion County
                         As Related by Howard Johnson. By Howard Johnson. Foreward by Martin Ridge;
                    afterward by Willard B. Moore; drawings by Carolyn Hickman. Reprint. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, in association with the Indiana Historical Society, 1978.
                    Pp. xxv, 133. Map, notes, illustrations. $8.95.)
            Born in 1821 and raised just north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Oliver Johnson grew up with Indiana. He lived until 1907, long enough to regale his
                    grandchildren with stories of his boyhood days. One grandson, Howard Johnson, soaked up these
                    reminiscences, distilled them, and later penned them in the first person, producing an unusual,
                    useful, and always interesting account of pioneer life.
            Oliver Johnson's contemporaries appear as individualistic, resilient, inventive people,
                    people who sought and achieved a large measure of self-sufficiency. Their society was also broadly
                    consensual, warmly supportive, participatory, and amazingly trusting. These traits emerge from
                    Johnson's recollections of grist mills, new farms, and hog drives. Social tensions surfaced
                    frequently, the products of local political maneuverings, conflicting customs among settlers, and
                    clashes between eastern values and aspirations and western conditions. Rough play and fist fights
                    were socially acceptable outlets for aggression.
            This work is generally free from the sentimentality and sweeping generalizations commonly found in
                    oral histories. Valuable, detailed glimpses of everyday life abound: working with farm animals,
                    solving crop problems, clearing and constructing, balancing a diet, and attending a subscription
                    school. Even so, the many decades separating Oliver Johnson's boyhood from Howard
                    Johnson's writing cast some uncertainty on the work; time may play havoc with memory and
                    motives, making evidence somewhat suspect. The work is further diminished by the omission of an
                    index.
            
            Militating against these weaknesses are helpful sketches and an afterward which links Oliver
                    Johnson's world to Conner 
                        Prairie
                    , a "living" museum near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This reprint captures the spirit and essence of pioneer Indiana. Through the writings
                    of Howard Johnson, Oliver Johnson observed: "We had our ups and downs, but nobody went
                    hungry and nobody done much complainin. We just about lived off the land and was satisfied"
                    (p. 33).
            James E. Davis, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         College, 
                            Jacksonville
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               From 
                            Wales
                         to Indiana. By Elfrieda Lang. ([
                        Bloomington
                    ]: Indiana University Foundation, 1978. Pp. 99. Maps, tables, notes, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. Booklet, $3.00.)
            In her study From 
                            Wales
                         to Indiana Elfrieda Lang has singled out the Gabriel Woodfill family of Welsh
                    ancestory as a case history of a family business in the Hoosier state. In five chapters of almost
                    equal length Lang chronicles the Welsh heritage in America; sketches the early history of 
                        Decatur County
                    , Indiana; discusses the motivation and success of early settlers and settlement in that
                    county; narrates the county's early mercantile history; and concludes by tracing the
                    Woodfill family from 
                        Wales
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                     in 
                        Decatur County
                     and recording the contributions that family made to the county's history.
                    During their years in Indiana the Woodfill family progressed from farming to merchandising, and
                    Lang's last chapter sketches this transition as well as the importance of the merchant to
                    community development. It also shows how the merchant tradition persisted and became intertwined
                    with other community enterprise.
            In her research Lang has used manuscripts, government documents, newspapers, periodicals, business
                    directories, articles, and books. Of particular value to the study were original census records,
                    especially those for 1850, which she used extensively. With these records she identified the free
                    inhabitants of 
                        Decatur County
                     in 1850 with assets of $5,000 or over and analyzed them on the basis of
                    occupation, nativity, age, and wealth. Then, using county histories, manuscript collections, and
                    personal memoirs, she traced the careers of selected examples from the group. In the use of these
                    resource materials and others, such as surveyor's field notes, Lang illustrates the wealth
                    of material available to those interested in writing family and local history.
            
            The study's major weakness is its failure to integrate its several aspects into a complete
                    narrative. Thus, though Lang discusses at length the Welsh heritage in America, she does not connect
                    this heritage specifically to Indiana. Similarly, while describing extensively the physical and
                    political characteristics of 
                        Decatur County
                    , she fails to relate those characteristics either to farming or to merchandising.
                    Despite these and other weaknesses the study offers an extensive look at materials that are
                    available for research in family and local history. Although the Woodfills were of Welsh ancestry,
                    they could as easily have been Scotch-Irish or German or almost any other ethnic group. Their story
                    is not a Welsh story; it is a story of pioneer success regardless of ethnicity.
            
               From 
                            Wales
                         to Indiana may not be a handbook for the novice in family and local history,
                    but it is an introduction to the wealth of information waiting to be used in the development of such
                    history.
            Donald T. Zimmer, Tri-State University, 
                            Angola
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               Saundersville: An English Settlement in 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , Indiana. By Kenneth P. McCutchan. (
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.: Unigraphic, Inc., for Friends of Willard Library Press, 1978. Pp. ii, 219.
                    Notes, map, illustrations, appendixes, index. $14.00.)
            The title might imply a treatise essentially aimed at local antiquarians of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , but, to the contrary, both for content and sheer delight, this book deserves a wide
                    audience. In addition to sponsoring reprints the Friends of Willard Library, with this venture, are
                    expanding into the publication of local source materials. Kenneth P. McCutchan, well-known area
                    historian, deserves enormous credit for providing unity and continuity to a rather miscellaneous
                    collection of manuscripts covering much of what there is to know about Saundersville, Indiana. This
                    then is the recorded history of an obscure hamlet some ten miles north of 
                        Evansville
                    . The village is now all but wiped from maps and twentieth-century memories; it is
                    typical, hardly unique.
            A perusal of community land entries, church and burial records, account books, and similar documents
                    will serve essentially genealogists. More exciting, however, are some sixty letters extending from
                    1818 to 1863 from pioneer settlers Martha and John Ingle to their relatives in 
                        England
                    . The story  of how these letters returned to Indiana
                    is complicated, but they reveal with almost naive honesty the life, times, observations, joys, and
                    sorrows of over forty years of the Ingle family as they move from pioneer rusticity to settled
                    "sophistication" in southwestern Indiana. With McCutchan's explications,
                    plus the supplementary town documents, almost every letter opens new insights into varied Hoosier
                    institutions, be they religious, political, economic, or intellectual.
            The excitement of learning to know people from the past may be even more valuable than the
                    information derived from the content of the letters. In this charming exposé of Ingle
                    family life the reader eagerly awaits the next episode to see how family health and wealth will
                    fare. These letters from a semiliterate pioneer family on the cutting edge of frontier civilization
                    flesh out statistics to reveal how Hoosiers really lived; Saundersville in turn comes alive. It is
                    to be hoped that a new generation of Indiana social historians with requisite imagination will
                    combine quantitative analysis with a growing supply of such local vignettes as these in order to
                    create a needed historical synthesis. Any good collection of Indiana history materials should
                    include this book; all friends of Indiana history are indebted to the Friends of Willard Library, 
                        Evansville
                    .
            John J. Baughman, Depauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Alloys and Automobiles: The Life of 
                            Elwood
                         Haynes. By Ralph D. Gray. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1979. Pp. xi, 243. Illustrations, notes, tables, note on
                    sources, index. Paperbound, $9.00.)
            On a July 4th afternoon in 1894 
                        Elwood
                     Haynes of 
                        Kokomo
                    , Indiana, took a successful test drive in an automobile that he had designed. His
                    action certainly established him as 
                        Kokomo
                    's first citizen and placed him among the very earliest automotive pioneers in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . Whether Haynes designed, built, and operated the first gasoline-powered automobile in
                    the 
                        United States
                     or not remains uncertain—despite Ralph D. Gray's best efforts. Gray
                    does succeed, however, in demonstrating that Haynes deserves far greater recognition as an early
                    automotive pioneer than he is generally accorded.
            Haynes was born into an upper-class family in 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, in 1857. He received more formal education than most of America's
                    Gilded Age businessmen and inventors. After completing high school, he entered 
                        Worcester county
                     (
                        Massachusetts
                    )  Free Institute of Industrial Sciences and
                    graduated in 1881. Later on he spent a year in graduate study at Johns Hopkins University. Perhaps
                    that is why Haynes placed a far higher value on college education than most of his contemporaries.
                    He argued: "Never employ a man, not in this day of the world, who is not a college graduate
                    to attack any problem that requires an original process" (p. 213).
            In the last decade of the nineteenth century, Haynes, after a brief career as superintendent of the 
                        Portland
                     (Indiana) Natural Gas and Oil Company, turned his attention to the development of the
                    automobile. The successful test drive in 1894 was the result of several years'
                    experimentation and development, always conducted in what Haynes perceived to be the proper
                    scientific method. In 1894 Haynes and Elmer Apperson, in whose machine shop the actual construction
                    of Haynes' first car had taken place, entered the automobile business. The Haynes-Apperson
                    partnership lasted less than a decade. Apperson, strongly attracted by the early
                    "races" and endurance "runs" being conducted at the turn of the
                    century to promote the automobile, set up his own company to specialize in the production of more
                    powerful racing cars. Haynes, until it was too late, ignored the market for small inexpensive cars
                    and concentrated on building medium or large luxury cars designed for upper-class customers. Lured
                    by a seemingly limitless market during the latter part of World War I and the immediate postwar
                    years, the Haynes Automobile Company overbuilt and despite heroic efforts never fully recovered from
                    the 1921-1922 depression in the industry. The company failed in 1925.
            At least part of the problem had been poor management. Haynes was never really an automobile business
                    executive. Without a great deal of business talent himself, Haynes relied much too heavily on his
                    family, none of whom possessed the necessary management experience and skills to direct an
                    automobile company during those turbulent years. It is difficult to fault Haynes for his lack of
                    entrepreneurship or business ability; he was an inventor and deserves recognition as a metallurgist.
            In September, 1912, Haynes received patents on "stellite," a ternary alloy of
                    cobalt, chromium, and tungsten, which produced an extremely hard metal ideal for machine tools,
                    medical and dental equipment, cutlery, and other items which needed to take and hold a fine edge.
                    After a brief period during which Haynes manufactured and marketed stellite through the Haynes
                    Stellite Company, the alloy patents were acquired by Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation.
            
            The same year that Haynes received his stellite patents he applied for patents on an iron or steel
                    and chromium alloy which was noncorrosive. Haynes' patent on the chromium alloy, popularly
                    known as "stainless steel," was not granted until 1917 when the Patent Office
                    Board of Examiners ruled that Harry Bearley's 1916 patent on the alloy had interferred with
                    Haynes' earlier work. Haynes may not have built the first automobile, but he undoubtedly
                    deserves credit for having first patented the corrosive-resistant properties of stainless steel.
            Working with rich sources relating to Haynes' businesses, Gray presents an excellent picture
                    of his subject's accomplishments in pioneer automobile development and metallurgy. He is
                    less successful in dealing with Haynes, the man, but it is difficult to fault Gray considering that
                    in this respect few sources were apparently available. What is otherwise a fine book is somewhat
                    marred by Gray's obsession with the question of whether or not Haynes built the first car.
                    Rather than dealing with the topic on at least three separate occasions, Gray would have better
                    served his readers with one thorough discussion. This is, however, a minor fault in an otherwise
                    excellent treatment of the first citizen of 
                        Kokomo
                    , Indiana.
            James D. Norris, Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            DeKalb
                        , Ill.
            
         
         
            
               Eugene V. Debs: Spokesman for Labor and Socialism. By Bernard J. Brommel. (
                        Chicago
                    : Charles H. Kerr Publishing Company, for the Eugene V. Debs Foundation, 1978. Pp. 265.
                    Illustrations, notes, index. $15.00.)
            This is the first full-length biography of Eugene Victor Debs since Ray Ginger's The Bending Cross (1949). Bernard J. Brommel's book is not as powerfully
                    evocative of the man and his times as is that previous work, but it is well grounded in original
                    research. The author has mined contemporary magazines and newspapers, labor and radical journals,
                    and the papers of socialists who worked with Debs. He has discovered some new Debs letters and the
                    collection that Theodore Debs kept as his brother's secretary. Brommel has even found some
                    volumes from Debs' own personal library and has interviewed survivors who knew the great
                    labor-socialist agitator.
            The book has fresh information on Debs' youth, including the sources of his formal education
                    and informal reading. The story of his early work as a labor organizer and editor is well told.
                    Brommel also notes Debs' service as 
                        Terre Haute
                    's city  clerk and as an Indiana legislator.
                    This fling in local Democratic politics produced a wonderful retrospective comment from the mature
                    Debs: "I have been trying to live it down. I am as ashamed of that as I am proud of having
                    gone to jail" (p. 26). The familiar story of the Pullman strike is curtailed, and the rest
                    of the book deals with Debs' role as presidential candidate and party leader between 1900
                    and 1920. A final chapter analyzes Debs as a public speaker and assesses his role in the stream of
                    American radicalism.
            Brommel depicts the Debs known to all—a man opposed to bigotry, economic inequality, and
                    political control. Debs was a reflexive radical because he liked the little people and was
                    suspicious of concentrated power. He spoke strong words and possessed a vivid vocabulary but
                    eschewed violence because of his concern for humanity and because violence would impede the
                    acceptance of socialism. Brommel sees Debs as a romantic with a sharp tongue, yet favoring pacific
                    responses to injustice.
            Brommel also sees his subject as a stronger force within the Socialist party than have previous
                    historians. Debs chiefly hoped to avoid the appearance either of bomb-throwing radicalism or simple
                    reformism and wanted to remain true to well-defined socialist principles; thus, he stayed in the
                    middle of the often comical yet bitter factional fights. He sometimes thought that
                    "slowcialists" like Victor Berger were too timid and that radicals like the
                    Wobblies were too radical, or at least too whimsical. Debs was bland about these disputes in public,
                    but his private correspondence was more biting and often bitter. In the end he took few overtly
                    divisive stands and retained power over the rank and file as a harmonizer above the battles.
            In terms of recoverable sources this book is probably the last word on Debs. Brommel's
                    approach is straightforward and sometimes lifeless, but he adds some fresh details and sober
                    insights to a familiar story. The book is not startling, but it is well worth having as a reminder
                    that every generation should have a Debs.
            H. 
                        Wayne
                     Morgan, University of 
                     Oklahoma, Norman
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Jazz State of Indiana. By Duncan Schiedt. (Pittsboro, Ind.: The author,
                    1977. Pp. ix, 256. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $9.95.)
            Duncan Schiedt is to be commended for his excellent "account of the rise and flowering of
                    jazz music in Indiana" (p. v).  Hoosiers should welcome
                    this work which, to this reviewer's knowledge, is the only state history on the subject.
            It is important to note at the outset that the author uses the term jazz in its widest sense; thus,
                    the music of the popular, theater, and "sweet" bands take up as much, and possibly
                    more (depending on the reader's definition of jazz), space than the "hot"
                    jazz groups. Some of the notable jazz musicians born in Indiana-Eddie Condon, Sidney Catlett, Wilbur
                    and Sidney DeParis, and Wes 
                        Montgomery
                    -are merely mentioned. The author is aware of the problem of definition and in his
                    introduction cautions the reader against being "misled into thinking that all the bands and
                    musicians in this book were jazz-oriented" (p. vi).
            The two opening chapters are devoted to music, musicians, and the social milieu found in the urban
                    areas from the 1880s to World War I. Included are discussions of three forces-ragtime, motion
                    pictures, and the phonograph-which played major roles in the development, diffusion, and
                    popularization of jazz music. The remaining six chapters cover Indiana jazz history chiefly in the
                    1920s. Included are discussions of outstanding musicians and musical groups, campus bands, the
                    development of orchestral arranging (by Earle M. Moss), black bands, "all-girl"
                    bands, and more detailed information concerning musical activity in the major cities.
            Schiedt is an internationally known collector of jazz photographs and memorabilia, and many items
                    from his collection are reproduced as illustrations in the volume. It is unfortunate that the
                    extensive data given in the illustrations are not included in the index. Geographical locations and
                    place names (theaters, dance halls, and so forth) are also missing. Thus, the list of individual and
                    group names which make up the present index is but a skeleton of the vast body of useful data
                    contained in the text and illustrations.
            
               The Jazz State of Indiana is based chiefly on interviews and does not include
                    scholarly documentation-sources, footnotes, bibliography-which will perhaps be missed by only a few
                    readers. The book is relatively objective and free of errors and is both enjoyable reading and a
                    valuable reference source for Indiana jazz music. Copies belong in every Indiana library and in the
                    libraries of those interested in jazz and Indiana history.
            Frank J. Gillis, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Federal Courts in the Early Republic: 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1789-1816.By Mary K. Bonsteel Tachau. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. ix, 234. Notes, tables, appendixes, bibliography, index.
                    $16.50.)
            In the first few pages of her pioneering study of the early federal courts in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Mary K. Bonsteel Tachau raises the memory of Julius Goebel. Perhaps the most
                    distinguished American legal historian of the first half of the twentieth century, Goebel spent much
                    of his time patrolling the enclosed lands of "his" legal history to keep out
                    trespassers, in particular nonlawyer historians and other incompetents. He was remarkably (and
                    unfortunately) successful in this task. Aside from the small group of scholars who clustered around
                    Willard Hurst in 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the 1950s and 1960s, historians have generally kept their distance from the spring
                    guns and other booby traps that awaited them in technical legal history. The federal courts below
                    the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court have been especially neglected; therefore, the publication of a
                    systematic study by a historian of the workload of the lower federal courts in a jurisdiction and in
                    a period as important as early 
                        Kentucky
                     is an event which one would like to celebrate.
            Tachau does many things very well in this book. In particular, she offers a useful statistical
                    breakdown of the circuit and district courts, a generally careful description of the changing
                    jurisdiction of the two courts, and illuminating portraits of Judge Harry Innes and other personnel
                    of the courts. She provides much new background on two famous cases of the early nineteenth century:
                    the trial of Aaron Burr and Greenv. Biddle, the Supreme Court
                    test of 
                        Kentucky
                    's occupying claimant law. And her chapter on the enforcement of the internal
                    revenue laws suggests the possibility of a legal history of moonshin-ing and is itself a fascinating
                    study in the politics of federal law enforcement in the early republic. Her book provides a splendid
                    base with which future historians can compare other lower federal courts. It is a useful beginning.
            Unfortunately, however, this book might well lead Goebel's ghost to urge a renewal of
                    vigilance at the borders of his lands. Also unfortunately, one perhaps ought to pay attention to the
                    ghost's disquietude. Tachau's work raises the happy possibility of a social
                    history of law as an alternative to Goebelian tunnel history. Such a social history, however,
                    depends on an appreciation of the fact that technical legal questions—in particular
                    questions of legal procedure—are not merely roadblocks on the way to historical
                    understanding. The categories and procedures  that a trial court
                    uses in making decisions, as much as the decisions themselves, are important parts of the social
                    history of that court. Yet Tachau seems at times unaware of the historical and explanatory
                    significance of technical rules, and she is frequently mistaken in her use of legal categories.
            Some mistakes are merely irritating. The appended glossary and the definitions strewn throughout the
                    text are too often unnecessarily vague or inaccurate. Other mistakes suggest the dangers of a little
                    knowledge. Tachau ends a description of the formalism of federal court proceedings by asking why a
                    judge as old-fashioned as Innes permitted suits to be brought in only eight of the dozens of forms
                    of action or writs available in medieval 
                        England
                    . The answer, of course, is that Innes was not a medieval judge. In fact, one can be
                    relatively sure that most of those dozens of writs were of no more significance to even the most
                    traditionalistic of late-eighteenth-century judges than an eighteenth-century "trespass vi
                    et armis" would be of concern to a conservative modern judge.
            Finally, and most importantly, a better understanding of the law would have deepened and perhaps
                    transformed Tachau's evaluation of the function of the 
                        Kentucky
                     federal courts. Throughout the book the author argues for the relative and competitive
                    significance of her courts as decisionmakers, relying on comparisons to the respective workloads of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court and of the 
                        Kentucky
                     state courts. In chapter seven, for example, she explains the high volume of debt cases
                    before her court by stating that the formalism and high quality of decisionmaking of Innes'
                    court led plaintiffs to prefer it to the state courts as a forum for civil litigation. Basing her
                    argument on the sheer volume of the caseload before the federal court (since she can offer no
                    evidence of actual stated litigant preferences), she tries to demonstrate that quality and
                    predictability made the federal district court into a more desirable debt collector. Even a slight
                    understanding of the legal purpose of a federal court, however, would suggest a different answer.
                    The federal Constitution created diversity jurisdiction for the federal courts; they were meant to
                    provide a forum where out-of-state plaintiffs could sue and obtain judgments from in-state
                    defendants. The attractiveness of a federal court lay not in its formalism or its quality or its
                    predictability as such but in the fact that it was not a local court. The very
                    "predictibility" of local courts would lead creditors to prefer the federal
                    courts. Nowhere would this be more true than in a frontier state such as 
                        Kentucky
                     where capital was in short supply and enterprising individuals were forced to look
                    outside  the state for funds. Unless Tachau can demonstrate that
                    most plaintiffs in debt cases were not from out-of-state, one would reasonably
                    assume that it was diversity jurisdiction (almost irrespective of the quality of decision-making)
                    that provided the lure of the court. And more generally, the measure of the significance of early
                    federal courts lay not in their competitive place in a national or local market for judicial goods
                    but in the ways in which they fulfilled the particular and limited roles given them in the
                    federalist theory of the early republic.
            Hendrik Hartog, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Potawatomis: Keepers of the Fire. By R. David Edmunds. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1978. Pp. xii, 367. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            R. David Edmunds has made a solid, impressive addition to the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press' Civilization of the American Indian series. Like most volumes in the
                    series, Edmunds' book is not anthropological or ethnocultural and relies on traditional
                    historical documents to narrate the history of Potawatomiwhite relations. Within this traditional
                    framework the author succeeds admirably in placing the Potawatomis in the context of their times and
                    in relating their prolonged, but hopeless, struggle against the white onslaught.
            The Potawatomis always seemed to be on the losing side. They were closely tied to the French through
                    trade and sided with them in the eighteenth-century conflicts with 
                        England
                    . After the French defeat the Potawatomis were eager followers of Pontiac's
                    doomed rebellion against their new British masters. They were only reluctantly won over to the
                    British but nevertheless sided with them against the colonists during the American Revolution.
                    Although only part of the tribe actively participated in hostilities against the Americans, the
                    whole tribe was held accountable after the British defeat. After the Revolution various Potawatomi
                    bands participated in the wars against the expansionist 
                        United States
                    . Potawatomis were on the winning side of the defeats of Josiah Harmar and Arthur St.
                    Clair but were soundly defeated at Fallen Timbers by Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    . Recalcitrant to the end, Potawatomis formed an important part of Tecumseh's
                    strength and followed that fated warrior and his British allies in the War of 1812. This final
                    defeat sealed their doom, and it was only a matter of time before the pressure from white settlers
                    led to the removal of almost all the Potawatomis across the Mississippi River.
            
            Edmunds is at his best in relating the inter-and intratribal rivalries that dominated Potawatomi
                    affairs in this period. As in most societies, economic interests, kinship ties, and personality
                    clashes all played a vital part in political development. Edmunds clearly reveals the operation of
                    this tribal political system.
            Although the book is admirable, two criticisms are in order. It is only natural for the author to
                    emphasize the role played by the Potawatomis in the conflicts with the invading whites. However, he
                    often gives the tribe too much credit. The reader might well assume that the Potawatomis played a
                    much more important part in the battles against Edward Braddock, Harmar, St. Clair, and 
                        Wayne
                     than is actually the case. It is also unfortunate that the book is so limited in scope.
                    Edmunds covers only the period from 1600 to 1840, from the earliest white contact to the final
                    removal of the Potawatomis from the Old Northwest. The opening date is understandable given the
                    paucity of research materials, but it is indeed unfortunate that the Potawatomis' history
                    was not brought up into the present century.
            The Potawatomis were an important midwestern tribe, and their history has been too long neglected.
                    Edmunds has used a wide range of source material to construct this fine contribution to Indian
                    scholarship and has provided the standard history of the tribe.
            Paul A. Hutton, 
                  
                            Utah
                         State University, Logan
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Texas
                         Annexation and the Mexican War: A Political Study of the Old Northwest. By
                    Norman E. Tutorow. (Palo Alto: Chadwick House, Publishers, Ltd., 1978. Pp. xv, 320. Notes,
                    appendixes, maps, tables, bibliography, index. $12.95.)
            This monograph, the purpose and scope of which are well defined by its title, overlaps to some degree
                    Joel H. Silbey, The Shrine of Party: Congressional Voting Behavior, 1841-1852
                    (1967) and John H. Schroeder, Mr. Polk's War: American Opposition and Dissent,
                        1846-1848 (1973), but it offers more material on the Old Northwest than either. Norman E.
                    Tutorow has ransacked newspaper files of the region as well as the Congressional
                    Globe, serial Congressional documents, and state legislative journals for the political
                    attitudes and actions of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                     on a crucial issue, territorial expansion, during a crucial period, the 1840s. About
                         one quarter of the book is devoted to elaborate tables and
                    well-drawn maps setting forth population distribution, vote counts, and other useful statistical
                    information.
            Tutorow's painstaking work leaves no doubt whatever—if any ever
                    existed—that through the dilemmas and heroism that accompanied the winning of the Far
                    West and Southwest politicians never forgot partisan infighting or their own prospects in the next
                    election. They might occasionally declaim with the 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, Banner that "we are now all Whigs and all
                    Democrats" (p. 129), but none of them meant it for a moment.
            Since politicians and attendant newspaper editors functioned in a democratic republic, a narrowly
                    political study such as this is apt to seem at times unreal or superficial. One cannot help
                    wondering what the mass of people thought about all these issues and to what degree they supported
                    or even accepted what they were told. Unfortunately, the historian of the many centuries before
                    polls is chained in Plato's cave straining to glimpse mere shadows of public opinion in the
                    flickering firelight of editorials and debates. Tutorow has certainly avoided much doubt and
                    conjecture with his self-imposed limitation on politics as such. Nevertheless, even he cannot resist
                    a little speculation at times. For example, in discussing northwestern opposition to the Mexican
                    War, he suggests that "opinion in Congress was more a molder of public opinion than a
                    reflection of it" (p. 182). How does he know? His evidence comes entirely from state and
                    county political conventions or is deduced from political actions. He might have provided at least a
                    whiff of public opinion by quoting constituents' letters in some of the collections that he
                    consulted (e.g., the papers of William Allen and Robert J. Walker). These are the genuine vox populi even if not numerous enough for statistical significance.
            The book contains much background material about the events of 
                        Texas
                     annexation and the Mexican War. This material could have been further condensed without
                    harm to the average informed reader. In the space thus saved Tutorow might well have given a more
                    penetrating discussion of the wartime split between the regional followers of David Wilmot (who
                    wanted territory from Mexico but none for slavery) and of Thomas Corwin (who wanted no territory at
                    all). In the Northwest, at least, this fault line became the epicenter of numerous wartime and
                    postwar tremors that shook the framework of American politics and society.
            David M. Pletcher, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Iron Road to the West: American Railroads in the 1850s. By John F. Stover. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xii, 266. Illustrations, tables, maps, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $14.95.)
            In this latest book from a dean of 
                        United States
                     railroad historians, John F. Stover has set out to describe the growth of the American
                    railroad business in the 1850s. This was, he reminds the reader, an important decade in economic
                    history, a decade that saw trackage grow from nine thousand to thirty thousand miles. The expansion
                    did not result in a fully integrated new transportation system—the development of
                    standard time and a standard gauge awaited the postbellum years—but it did produce a new
                    east-west axis of trade and travel that, politically, helped bind the West to the Northeast when the
                    Union divided in 1861 and that greatly stimulated the growth of American agriculture and
                    manufacture.
            Stover's descriptive material in this book provides little new insight into his topic. He
                    organized the data regionally—with separate chapters on the East, West, and
                    South—to describe the relative growth of rail mileage on a firm by firm basis in each
                    state. He compared miles of track laid to population, land area, and capital invested per mile.
                    Although the boom in railroad construction was national, the South lagged while the West was rapidly
                    catching up to eastern standards. The information provided may be useful to scholars who seek to
                    sort out the complexities created by the histories of hundreds of firms, for they will find here
                    brief accounts of each small company that first started to construct track and its growth or
                    absorption by other firms. The book includes information about the financing—including
                    governmental subsidies—of the lines and a brief account of the changing technologies
                    employed in railroad building.
            The author, unfortunately, does not range far beyond such descriptive matters. Although he does not
                    do so directly, Stover clearly disputes Robert Fogel's counterfactual argument that a canal
                    and water system, if fully developed, could have provided the transportation links necessary for the
                    industrial revolution. He points out, for example, Americans' preferences for the cheaper
                    capital costs, shorter distances, greater speed, and greater reliability of the "iron
                    road" over waterways. He shows that, because of those preferences, by the end of the 1850s
                    the economic importance of interior water transportation was in relative decline to the railroads.
                    For most historians this is nots  an especially new
                    interpretation, but it is convenient to have it succinctly stated.
            There is much that is missing from this account of the railroad business of the 1850s. It does have
                    brief vignettes of actual travels, comparing, for instance, Abraham Lincoln's east-west
                    trips of 1849 and 1861. For the most part, however, people and the problems they confronted do not
                    come alive in these pages. There is no description of the development of modern business management
                    in American railroad firms, a development which began during the decade of the 1850s. Nor is there a
                    discussion of the opposition that railroads encountered from persons who feared their impact on
                    social customs or on established avenues of trade. (The author does explain, however, that initially
                    train operation on Sundays was much disputed.) Thus, in terms of the establishment of firms and the
                    laying of track, the book appears definitive for the decade it discusses; but for some important
                    human aspects of the story, readers will have to look elsewhere.
            K. Austin Kerr, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Finley Peter Dunne & Mr. Dooley: The 
                            Chicago
                         Years. By Charles Fanning. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1978. Pp. x, 286. End maps, illustrations, appendix, notes, index. $14.50.)
            The author focuses his study upon the over three hundred dialect pieces that Dunne published in the
                    1890s in 
                        Chicago
                     newspapers about his mythical Irish folk hero, Mr. Dooley, a philosopher-barkeeper on
                    Archer Avenue in Bridgeport. The book treats thematically four topics that underlie Mr.
                    Dooley's wit: daily living in 
                        Chicago
                    's Irish community; the problems in that community as the Irish adapted to
                    American life; the workers' views from an Irish ward in 
                        Chicago
                    's political arena in the 1890s; and Irish nationalism as it manifested itself
                    in the American Irish. In addition to creating the weekly Mr. Dooley articles, Dunne wrote daily
                    editorials, often on the same subjects. Fanning's comparisons, which include numerous
                    quotations, prove his argument that Dunne's opinions as editor were usually more
                    conservative than the views of Mr. Dooley, his wittier social critic.
            One of the values of this book is the skillful way in which Fanning traces events in Dunne's
                    life and relates the way in  which they emerged in his writings.
                    The author also provides background information on political life in 
                        Chicago
                     in the 1890s to help the reader to understand Dunne's writings and the fact
                    that back of Mr. Dooley's humor there was a story of the struggle of the Irish to be
                    assimilated, accepted, and successful in America. Fanning does this especially well in his
                    explanations of poverty and politics among the Irish immigrants.
            The gradual development of Mr. Dooley, wisest of saloon keepers on Archer Avenue, from a commentator
                    upon the local Irish-
                        Chicago
                     scene into a critic-philosopher upon the national and international scene has been
                    carefully documented and explained by the author. By the late 1890s Dunne wrote less about local
                    politics and more about Irish nationalism, the Philippine question, and the Spanish-American war.
                    Syndication of the Mr. Dooley essays spread Dunne's fame, and in 1900 he left 
                        Chicago
                     permanently for 
                        New York
                     and a larger national audience. According to Fanning and other critics, some of
                    Dunne's best work appeared in these earlier 
                        Chicago
                     writings. In a final chapter Fanning assesses Dunne's contributions as a
                    historian, as a literary realist, and as a philosopher. Although he obviously admires Dunne, Fanning
                    objectively analyzes his weaknesses and importance. The author's research on
                    Dunne's influence on Theodore Dreiser will interest students of American realism.
            Fanning's book contains far greater detail and pays more attention to the exact historical
                    events about which Dunne wrote than does Barbara C. Schaaf's recent Dooley's 
                            Chicago
                        
                (1977). Schaaf's journalistic style, however, makes for far easier
                    reading. Fanning's book includes quotations from almost all of Dunne's Mr. Dooley
                    essays, plus many in their entirety, and his frequent footnotes add more information to his
                    commentary. Lincoln Steffens once described Dunne's writings as a painful chore to read.
                    The reader unfamiliar with the Irish dialect might find the same true of the many pages of Mr.
                    Dooley's essays in this book. However, members of the devoted Dooley clan will appreciate
                    Fanning's research and comments and will thank him as the Sherlock Holmes fans do those
                    writers who further enlighten them about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
            Bernard J. Brommel; Northeastern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               A Season of Youth: The American Revolution and the Historical Imagination. By
                    Michael Kammen. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1978. Pp. xxi, 384. Illustrations, notes, index. $15.00.)
            Michael Kammen's latest inquiry into the sources of American national character is on
                    balance a work of considerable significance, perhaps even more so than his Pulitzer-Prize-winning
                        People of Paradox (1972), which was to some tastes too much a tour de force. There is some of the same tendency to get lost in details. There is some of
                    the same looseness of organization. But this time Kammen has sufficiently kept his virtuosi
                    temperament in check, perhaps because he is dealing with a much better focused objective. He takes
                    as his theme the relationship of the American people, at least insofar as can be gathered from the
                    evidence of "cultural artifacts," to their revolutionary heritage. It is a study
                    certainly worthy of consideration in light of the recent debacle of a national bicentennial. With
                    that latter sad occasion in mind, it comes as something of a surprise, then, when Kammen insists
                    that the American Revolution "stands as the single most important source for our national
                    sense of tradition" (p. 256). The paradox is shortly resolved when it is pointed out that
                    Americans are continually drawn to the Revolution in order to minimize its revolutionary character.
            The need to deal with the Revolutionary epoch is in part a function of a characteristic American
                    indifference, and even hostility, to the past, a condition of mind which seriously threatened the
                    development of an essential national consciousness in the earlier national period. Cultural
                    nationalists in search of a national tradition could only turn to the Revolution as an heroic
                    expression of an in-dwelling and even fated sense of nationality. But it was precisely for that
                    reason that they played down the socially disruptive and fratricidal elements that went into the
                    making of the Revolution. Kammen is not always as explicit as he might be on this process of
                    adulteration, but it is nonetheless quite implicit in his treatment of the early national culture.
            Kammen finds a significant shift in perspective among writers and artists in the late nineteenth
                    century. Earlier in the century, thus closer to the event itself, the Revolution was customarily
                    portrayed as an object lesson in civic spirit and high principles with George 
                        Washington
                    , of course, serving as the personification of republican values. By the close of the
                    century the Revolution came to be seen more and more as a  pure
                    and simple military encounter, a shift in focus, which Kammen points out "helped to obviate
                    any need to deal with social radicalism, the ideology inherent in the Declaration of Independence,
                    the rights of man, and related issues that might have seemed awkward at that time" (p.
                    160). Kammen is quite correct in locating the source of this shift in the social conservatism of the
                        fin de siecle, but he is a little off center in asserting that the
                    conservative gentlemen and ladies of this era were "myopic" with respect to the
                    realities of economic and class conflict (p. 61). They were in fact considerably more realistic than
                    the earlier generation of romantics. It was not so much that they denied that side of the
                    Revolutionary experience as that they deplored and denigrated Revolutionary radicalism and radicals.
            Kammen is somewhat mistaken on this matter perhaps because he deliberately excludes professional
                    historians from the purview of his study, although he does occasionally sneak them in through the
                    back door. If he had taken into systematic account the historiography of the period, he would have
                    noted, as, for example, Richard Hofstadter does in The Progressive Historians
                    (1968), the recovery of a sense of social discord in the Revolutionary struggle. It seems that
                    Kammen has unnecessarily limited his inquiry on the rather specious grounds of a separation of the
                    culture into high and low.
            Kammen lets the reader know early in the game that the climax of his book comes in chapter six. (He
                    has the bad habit of telegraphing his punches.) The title of the book, A Season of
                        Youth, is drawn from the thesis of that chapter. Writers of historical novels dealing with
                    the American Revolution, Kammen finds, consistently portray the Revolution as a rite de
                        passagefor their heroes and heroines. The Revolution is thus perceived as a crucial moment
                    of maturation wherein society makes the leap from the childhood dependance of colonies to the sturdy
                    manhood (or womanhood) of republican independence. It is not an altogether novel insight, as Kammen
                    himself testifies in his citations, but the use to which he puts that theme is constructive and
                    valuable. He argues that the metaphor of a rite of passage served as a device for derevolutionizing
                    the Revolution. It was "a means of replacing revolution with evolution" (p. 215),
                    and, Kammen concludes, "The net effect has been to trivialize the American
                    Revolution" (p. 219). A consideration at this point of a similar tendency among historians
                    might have been in order, but Kammen resists what must have been a temptation.
            
            In a recent essay in the American Quarterly(XXX, No. 2), Michael Zuckerman observed
                    despairingly with respect to the Revolutionary bicentennial that by the manner of its celebration
                    "we declared our incapacity to connect rewardingly, or even coherently, with our
                    Revolutionary origins" (p. 226). The value and significance of Kammen's A Season of Youthlies precisely in its explication of that condition, a condition
                    which needs desperately to be overcome if in fact the 
                        United States
                     will continue to persevere as a republic founded "in liberty and justice for
                    all."
            Bernard Friedman, Indiana University-Purdue University 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Slavery of Sex: Feminist-Abolitionists in America. By Blanche Glassman
                    Hersh. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1978. Pp. xi, 280. Notes, bibliography, index. $14.50.)
            The connection between abolitionism and feminism is well known. Who were these first generation
                    feminists, most of whom were born before 1825, who developed during their anti-slavery crusade an
                    awakening consciousness of feminism? To find the answer Blanche Glassman Hersh examines the lives of
                    fifty-one white women largely of 
                        Puritan
                     or 
                        Quaker
                     stock and New 
                        England
                     ancestry. Her decision to omit black women leaves her with a relatively homogeneous
                    group from which to generalize.
            Hersh's discussion of the feminist movement's origins in antislavery, the
                    transition to a struggle for women's rights as an end in itself, and the biographical
                    sketches of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Lucy Stone add little that is new. The
                    author's contribution lies instead in her composite biography of the early feminists, most
                    of whom came from prosperous families and enjoyed a high level of education for the times. At least
                    half had been teachers. Absorbed by a Calvinist sense of duty and an evangelical view of life as a
                    battle against evil, they nevertheless rejected orthodoxy. Reform was their religion. Although Hersh
                    sees this abandonment of orthodoxy as crucial to the development of the movement, it is unclear
                    whether the rejection was cause or effect. Hersh does make clear, however, the connection between
                    the feminists' passion for perfectionism and their involvement in other reforms, including
                    spiritualism and phrenology.
            
            Thirty-seven of the early feminists were married, generally to husbands who shared similar
                    backgrounds and beliefs in women's rights. Instead of separate spheres, feminists
                    envisioned spouses as inhabiting partially overlapping spheres. They shared the roles of human being
                    and citizen whereas their roles of wife-mother and breadwinner remained separate. The responsibility
                    for housekeeping was retained by the wife, whose burden was thus intensified by the glorification of
                    domesticity in response to the image of feminists as unsexed monsters. What was new in these
                    marriages was the freedom of wives to labor for reform outside the home, leaving the husband with
                    occasional responsibility for the children. Hersh's judgment concerning the equality
                    achieved in these marriages seems overly optimistic. She sees such a union as an
                    "egalitarian marriage that would still be remarkable today" (p. viii). Her
                    description of the constant balancing act demanded by the roles of wife-mother and reformer are less
                    sanguine. Hersh is right in concluding that the independence these women enjoyed owed much to the
                    marriages they made, but perhaps the widespread availability of servants was equally essential.
            Hersh's picture of the first generation of feminists shows a group of women with
                    extraordinary vitality. The average age at death was eighty! She concludes that their rejection of
                    separate spheres opened the way for changes in marriage and society in general. They certainly made
                    a beginning, but by adding the role of reformer to the already demanding one of wife-mother, the
                    image left in this reviewer's mind is not so much one of the egalitarian woman as of the
                    superwoman!
            Christie Farnham Pope, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Recreating the Historic House Interior. By William Seale. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1979. Pp. x, 270. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $22.00.)
            Jan Finney Northrup
            Had this book been published earlier, many questionable "restorations" of historic
                    rooms might have been averted. This is not a volume about antiques or the decorative arts per se;
                    nor was it intended to replace existing monographs on specific subjects. What the author set out to
                    do, with meritorious success, was "to provide a framework for thinking; and to provide
                    signals in the form of basic facts" (p. ix) to guide those who undertake the re-creation of
                    a historic house. An award winning author and editor of Nineteenth Century, a
                    publication of  the Victorian Society in America, William Seale
                    earned his Ph.D. in history at Duke University. It is the discipline of the trained historian that
                    sets his book apart from previously published works on the subject.
            The primary function of a house-museum, as opposed to a museum of decorative arts, is to interpret a
                    particular period of history in the context of the people who lived there. Properly documented, the
                    smallest details become interpretive materials that give the house human and social dimension. Since
                    historic houses seldom survive with their contents intact, how does one go about re-creating the
                    interior so that it will ring true? Says Seale: "A house that has stood for a hundred years
                    need not be rushed backward or forward" (p. 26). He advises stabilization while awaiting
                    later decisions.
            The groundwork for making those decisions is outlined in what can be considered the
                    "meat" of this book, the chapters dealing with historical research. Stressing the
                    importance of local documentation, Seale provides a comprehensive checklist of potential sources and
                    even goes so far as to recommend a system for filing and retrieving the data gathered. Eventually
                    this file will serve as the basis for a detailed recommendation on the restoration and re-creation
                    of the house as well as the later interpretation of the site to the public.
            Succeeding chapters address many of the common problems encountered in the course of restoration, and
                    no reader can fail to be fascinated by the array of historical minutiae contained therein. For
                    example, early paperhangers cooked up their own pastes, "usually composed of a flour base,
                    often mixed with alum, stale beer or port wine" (p. 31); and softwood floors can be
                    returned to their original appearance "by careful stripping with paint or varnish remover,
                    followed by several scrubbings with lye water" (p. 39), which is obtained by boiling wood
                    ashes.
            Seale admonishes against relying too heavily on published sources that deal primarily with the best
                    examples of period styles. These books can be highly misleading because most American homes would
                    have included a number of locally produced vernacular pieces. Even the interiors of houses now
                    considered architecturally sophisticated would rarely have reflected any high style in the
                    international sense before the end of the nineteenth century. A homey domesticity, "which
                    in Europe is usually associated with the rise of the middle class, was in America the dominant
                    character of the whole" (p. 53).
            The twelve color and sixty-four black and white plates that follow the text include documentary and
                    contemporary views of  interiors from 1720 to 1929 and are
                    accompanied by instructive commentaries on the significant elements in each. Among these pictures
                    are two views of "Ruthmere," the A. H. Beardsley house in 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana.
            The book might have been improved by more judicious placement of the thirty-four smaller
                    illustrations scattered through the text. They seem to serve the requirements of page layout better
                    than they do those of the reader, especially since the plates are not numbered or cross-referenced
                    in the text. Nevertheless, this volume should be considered one of the best primers available on
                    recreating historic interiors.
            
                    Historic Landmarks Foundation of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana
                
         
         
            Papers Concerning Lew Wallace Requested
            A Ben HurCentennial celebration will be held at 
                        Wabash
                     College, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, November 7 and 8, 1980. Individuals interested in presenting papers at a Lew
                    Wallace symposium to be held on those days are invited to submit proposals for such papers. The
                    topics are not limited to the writing of Ben Hurbut can include any aspect of Lew
                    Wallace's life and work. Deadline for proposals is May 31, 1980. The Indiana Historical
                    Society may be interested in publishing a selection of the papers presented. For further information
                    write Raymond L. Shoemaker, Indiana Historical Society, 315 West 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46202
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth. By John D. Barnhart and Donald
                    F. Carmony. 2 vols. (
                        New York
                    : Lewis Historical Publishing Company, Inc., 1954; reprinted, 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1979. Pp. xv, 422, 621. Maps, notes, illustrations, tables,
                    bibliography, index. $27.00, plus 4 percent sales tax in Indiana.) Since its publication
                    in 1954 this history of Indiana has been the best general guide to the state's past. For
                    the beginning student and the advanced scholar the Barnhart and Carmony opus has been the starting
                    point and often the only readily available source for study of most significant topics relating to
                    Indiana history. Although research in the last quarter century has modified or added to some of the
                    contents of the two volumes, they remain essential reading on nearly all subjects. Because it has
                    become increasingly difficult to acquire copies of Barnhart and Carmony in recent years, this
                    reprint edition by the Indiana Historical Bureau will be welcomed by all interested in Indiana. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The 
                            Carroll County
                         Sesquicentennial Publication, 1824-1828-1974-1979: A Photographic Portrayal of Old
                        Life in a Hoosier Community, the Pictorial History of 
                            Carroll County
                        . By C. E. Gerard and Michael G. Griffey. (Delphi, Ind.: C. E. Gerard and
                    Michael G. Griffey, under the auspices of the 
                        Carroll County
                     Sesquicentennial Publication Committee, 1977. Pp. [208]. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $15.00.) This pictorial history provides interesting
                    glimpses of small town and rural life in 
                        Carroll County
                    . Many of the illustrations are from the collections of Delphi photographers J. M. Boltz
                    and Andrew W. Wolever. The earliest photograph is from the late 1850s; most date from the
                    late-nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Subjects include street scenes, schools, churches,
                    parks, homes, and commercial buildings. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Growing Up in Indiana. [Volume I]. By Chester L. Larkins. (Leawood, Kans.:
                    Bicentennial Publishing Company, [1976]. Pp. 112. Illustrations. Paperbound, $3.00, plus
                    $ .48 postage.)
            
               Growing Up in Indiana. Volumes II, III. Stories, Memories,
                    Anecdotes. Written and edited by Chester L. Larkins. (Leawood, Kans.: Bicentennial Publishing
                    Company, [1978J. Pp. 107, 129. Illustrations. Paperbound, $3.50, plus $ .48
                    postage each.)
            Volume I of this three-volume set contains the author's reminiscences of his youth in
                    southwestern Indiana during the  first quarter of the twentieth
                    century. Included are stories about farm life, hunting, junior and senior high school, and family
                    reunions. The second and third volumes cover approximately the same period and subject matter but
                    are compilations of stories and reminiscences by various contributors. The books can be obtained
                    from Chester L. Larkins, 9415 Lee Boulevard, Leawood, 
                        Kansas
                     66206. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               History of the Wabash Valley in Indiana . … By H.
                    W. Beckwith. (
                        Chicago
                    : H. H. Hill and H. Iddings, 1880; reprinted, 
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, 1977. Pp. 264. Map, notes, illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $11.75.) This history of the Wabash Valley was originally published
                    in 1880 and was included in several Indiana county histories of the late-nineteenth century. It
                    treats topography, climate, early French explorers, and Indians and concludes with a chapter on
                    George Rogers Clark's campaign. The book can be obtained from The Bookmark, P.O. Box 74, 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana 46148. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The 14th Indiana Light Artillery Battery: A Personalized Description of Regimental Life
                        in the Civil War As Described in Letters Written by a Member of the Battery to His Soldier
                        Brother. By Rolland J. Gladieux. (Kenmore, N.Y.: Work Experience Press, 1978. Pp. v, 39.
                    Map. Booklet, $4.00.) There is no aroma of battle in this compilation of Civil War
                    letters from Private William D. Cook, Fourteenth Indiana Light Artillery, to his brother, James.
                    Gladieux describes the collection as a personalized view of camp life and suggests that the letters
                    amount to a personal regimental history. The claim is a substantial overstatement of their value. In
                    this reviewer's judgment the pamphlet adds little to the literature of military history but
                    may be marginally interesting to the extent that it reflects the life-style and relationship of two
                    brothers who also happened to be soldiers. Gladieux provides an accompanying narrative that will
                    help the reader to understand the correspondence, although it occasionally is somewhat disorganized
                    from a structural standpoint. William J. Watt, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
               Whitewater, 
                            Ohio
                        , Village of Shakers, 1824-1916: Its History and Its People. Edited by Marjorie
                    Byrnside Burress. (
                        Cincinnati
                    : The editor, 1979. Pp. 97. Illustrations, maps, tables, index. $8.00.) This
                    is a handbook of information on the Shaker  community the 150
                    members of which developed 1,457 acres at Whitewater, 
                        Ohio
                    , northwest of 
                        Cincinnati
                     between 1824 and 1916. Historical accounts are reproduced from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Harrison newspapers and other secondary sources. Chronologies of events and
                    physical development at Whitewater, Shaker membership lists, historic and recent photographs, past
                    and present maps, and extant Shaker tombstone markings also are included. Although the editor makes
                    little effort to integrate or interpret the material and errs in suggesting that there are no living
                    Shakers (p. 1) and that Whitewater has the only remaining Shaker meetinghouse (p. 13), many will
                    find her work useful for discovering and documenting this important historic communal site. Donald E. Pitzer, Indiana State University 
                     Evansville, Evansville
                  .
            
            
               The Badger State: A Documentary History of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By Justus F. and Barbara Dotts Paul. (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans
                    Publishing Company, 1979. Pp. xix, 567. Maps, illustrations, tables, index. Paperbound,
                    $13.95.) Editors Justus F. Paul and Barbara Dotts Paul have selected primary sources and
                    interpretative essays to portray the major events and themes in 
                        Wisconsin
                    's history from the time of fur traders and Indians to student demonstrations
                    and the women's rights movements of recent decades. The selections cover social, economic,
                    and cultural as well as political topics representing the variety of peoples, beliefs, and
                    activities that make up the history of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . This volume is testimony to the long and rich tradition of state and local history in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and to the important roles played in establishing and maintaining that tradition by the
                    library of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and the 
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History, which are the sources of most of the materials here
                    reprinted. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Edited by P. P. Karan and Cotton Mather. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1977. Pp. xii, 182. Illustrations, maps, tables, figures, sources and selected
                    references, index. $19.50.) This state atlas is a feast for one's eyes.
                    Gradations of the same color or a group of nonclashing colors are used to present numerical data,
                    whether it be average infant death rate, 1968-1972, or total land area in harvested cropland. Most
                    of the 142 maps divide the state into its 120 counties; yet, the cluttered look is ingeniously
                    avoided by providing a sheet of three overlays (in various sizes) with the county names.
            
            Appropriate photographs and succinct paragraphs analyze the data appearing on the maps. The volume
                    includes such currently significant data as recent election returns, mineral resources, air and
                    water quality, area development districts, horse farms, value of farmland, and surface mining. Two
                    thirds of the maps fall into the categories of forestry and agriculture (26), land use and physical
                    characteristics (14), the urban system (14), population characteristics (13), social and economic
                    patterns (13), and transportation and communication (10). The historian who examines the maps
                    carefully can identify patterns and discover quirks that might be explained through historical
                    analysis. There are maps of pioneer trails and county boundaries and a series of illustrations
                    ranking 
                        Kentucky
                    's cities in an urban hierarchy from 1800 to 1979. In the main, however, the
                    volume does not stress the history of 
                        Kentucky
                     as such.
            Since rivers unite rather than divide areas economically, Indiana readers will be interested in the
                    data for counties across the Ohio River from the Hoosier state. Map 101, Fluid
                    Milk Source Regions, indicates that the 
                        Evansville
                     bottling plant draws from 
                        Kentucky
                     as well as Indiana and that a number of Indiana dairymen supply plants in 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Maps 46 and 58 show the reach of 
                        Evansville
                     into 
                        Kentucky
                     for newspaper circulation and metropolitan commuters. The Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               is worthy of emulation, and perhaps after the 1980 census data are released,
                    Indiana will produce a similar volume of outstanding quality. Stuart S. Sprague, 
                            Morehead
                         State University, 
                            Morehead
                        , Ky.
            
            
               Unity, Ethnicity, & Abraham Lincoln. By Richard N. Current. (Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Ind.: Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum, 1978. Pp. 24. Illustrations, notes.
                    Pamphlet, free upon request, limited supply.)
            
               The Minor Affair: An Adventure in Forgery and Detection. By Don E. Fehrenbacher.
                    (Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Ind.: Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum, 1979. Pp. 40. Illustrations, notes.
                    Pamphlet, free upon request, limited supply.)
            Each year the Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum invites a distinguished Lincoln scholar to
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to present a lecture in the series that honors Dr. R. Gerald McMurtry, the second
                    director of the library and museum. Richard N. Current presented the first lecture in 1978. He
                    eloquently countered recent assertions that Lincoln's life is no longer relevant to ethnic
                    Americans–that he belongs not to the ages but only to "WASPS." In 1979
                    Don E. Fehrenbacher's  lecture followed the story of
                    Lincoln's love for Ann Rutledge as presented in Atlantic Monthlyin the
                    1920s. Fehrenbacher shows that the entire presentation was an elaborate and exciting hoax. Each of
                    the two lectures has been published and can be obtained by writing the Louis A. Warren Lincoln
                    Library and Museum, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana 46801. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            The Indiana Magazine of Historyhas received the following titles from The
                    University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    's interesting and continuing series, the 
                        Kentucky
                     Bicentennial Bookshelf:
            
               A Brittle Sword: The 
                            Kentucky
                         Militia, 1776-1912. By Richard G. Stone, Jr. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1977. Pp. ix, 121. End maps, illustrations, bibliographical note. $4.95.)
            
               The Three 
                            Kentucky
                         Presidents: Lincoln, Taylor, Davis. By Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1978. Pp. xv, 69. Illustrations, bibliographical essay. $4.95.)
            
               The Life and Adventures of Daniel 
                            Boone
                        . By Michael A. Lofaro. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1978. Pp. ix, 140. End map, illustrations, bibliographic note. $4.95.)
            
               The Antislavery Movement in 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Lowell H. Harrison. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1978. Pp. vii, 126. Notes, bibliographic note. $4.95.)
            
               The Hatfields and the McCoys. By Otis K. Rice. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1978. Pp. ix, 141. End map, illustrations, notes, bibliographical note.
                    $4.95.)
            
               Dear Alben: Mr. Barkley of 
                            Kentucky
                        . By James K. Libbey. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1979. Pp. vii, 118. Illustrations, sources. $4.95.)
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
