
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 106, Issue 1, pages 1-117. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:106+issue:1+year:2010&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               

               

               

               
               
          
          



               
               
                    
                         Alexander J. Douglas in later life. Douglas's son
                              recalled his father's speaking abilities without mention of the
                              turmoil caused by the state senator's Civil War rhetoric.
                         Courtesy of the author
                    



                    



                    Worse than Vallandigham

                    Governor Oliver P. Morton, Lambdin P. Milligan, and the Military Arrest
                         and Trial of Indiana State Senator Alexander J. Douglas During the Civil
                         War

                    STEPHEN E. TOWNE


                    My papa was an excellent public speaker. He often
                         talked to me, in my youth, about the importance of voice cultivation, no
                         matter what profession one practiced. If you wanted to make yourself
                         attentively heard, either in public address or private conversation, you
                         should pitch your voice in the lowest register at your command. High-keyed
                         shouting would earn you nothing but the other fellow's suspicion that
                         you were in doubt or insincere. You should be careful to enunciate your
                         consonants clearly: the vowels would look after themselves. No matter what
                         he talked about, when my papa spoke, his audience listened. You could hear
                         a pin drop.1


                    On May 7, 1863, Indiana State Senator Alexander J. Douglas gave a speech at a
                         Democratic rally in Crestline, Ohio. Douglas criticized the administration
                         of Republican President Abraham Lincoln and its policies, stating that the
                         army had interfered with Indiana local elections 
                              Stephen E. Towne is Associate University Archivist at Indiana
                                   University-Purdue University Indianapolis. He edited A Fierce, Wild Joy: The Civil War Letters of Colonel Edward
                                        J. Wood, 48th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment
                                   (2007). He most recently co-edited (with Richard E Nation) Indiana's War: The Civil War in Documents
                                   (2009).
                              1Lloyd C. Douglas, Time to
                                   Remember (Cambridge, Mass., 1951), 39.
                         
                          and had illegally arrested the leading
                         Democratic critic of the Lincoln administration, Clement L. Vallandigham.
                         Douglas urged fellow Democrats to fight back if necessary to protect their
                         right to vote. On May 13, troops acting under orders from U.S. Brig. Gen.
                         John S. Mason arrested Douglas at the railroad station as he waited to
                         return to Indiana. The general acted after conferring with Ohio's
                         governor, who in turn had received a tip from Crestline residents who had
                         heard the speech. Prior to making the arrest, military authorities obtained
                         approval from Ohio Senator John Sherman, at home during a break in
                         Congress. Douglas was imprisoned in Cincinnati and tried by military
                         commission, the same tribunal that had convicted former Ohio Congressman
                         Vallandigham. Lambdin P. Milligan, whose name would feature in a sub
                         sequent United States Supreme Court landmark ruling -- Ex
                              Parte Milligan -- served as Douglas's defense counsel. The
                         commission found Douglas guilty of speaking disloyal sentiments and thereby
                         violating a military edict -- General Orders Number 38 -- promulgated by the com
                         mander of military forces in the District of the Ohio, Maj. Gen. Ambrose E.
                         Burnside. However, Indiana's Republican Governor Oliver P. Morton
                         intervened with President Abraham Lincoln and his administration, and
                         astonished Burnside with the news that Lincoln and his cabinet disap
                         proved of Vallandigham's arrest and Burnside's policy of military
                         intervention into civil matters. With this news of the president's
                         unhappiness with his actions, Burnside backed down from his aggressive
                         policy and instructed his commission to find Douglas not guilty of the
                         charge and released him. Furthermore, the commission disbanded, and no more
                         military prosecutions under General Orders Number 38 occurred there
                         after.
                    This brief overview, featuring an extraordinary cast of top national figures,
                         reveals important events that occurred during the federal gov
                         ernment's efforts to suppress a rebellion in the South and incipient
                         unrest in the Old Northwestern states. However, the event is almost
                         completely unknown to historians.2 The arrest and trial
                         of Vallandigham, occurring only days before, overshadowed the arrest and
                              
                              2A biographer of Lambdin P. Milligan made
                                   passing reference to the Douglas case, and reprinted
                                   Milligan's speech. See Darwin N. Kelley, Milligan's Fight Against Lincoln (New York,
                                   1973). See also Craig D. Tenney, "Major General A. E.
                                   Burnside and the First Amendment: A Case Study of Civil War
                                   Freedom of Expression," Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                                   University, Bloomington, 1977, 189.
                         
                          trial of Douglas, admittedly a political
                         leader of much smaller stature. Nonetheless, Douglas's arrest and
                         trial prompted the intervention of Governor Morton in an effort to avoid
                         insurrection and bloodshed in Indiana and throughout the North.
                         Morton's efforts ended a notorious episode in which military
                         authorities violated the civil liberties of Northern citizens by curtailing
                         the constitutional rights of free speech and a free press.
                    A study of the Douglas arrest and military commission trial is useful in
                         evaluating historians' understanding of the widespread incidence of
                         military arrests of Northern civilians during the American Civil War.
                         Today, analysis of such arrests is dominated by the work of Mark E. Neely
                         Jr. In his Pulitzer Prize-winning book, The Fate of Liberty:
                              Abraham Lincoln and Civil Liberties (1991), Neely corrected
                         long-held assumptions of generations of historians about where and how
                         arrests occurred, and who was arrested. In a close examination of large
                         quantities of Civil War-era records, Neely concluded that, indeed, under
                         the Lincoln administration numerous arrests occurred in an effort to
                         silence political opponents. He pointed to the rash of arrests to silence
                         Democratic opponents in late summer and early fall of 1862 as the
                         "lowest point for civil liberties in the North during the Civil
                         War...and one of the lowest for civil liberties of all time in United States history." However, Neely lessened Lincoln's faults by
                         noting that most arrests occurred in the border states, such as Kentucky
                         and Missouri, where fierce guerrilla warfare and nebulous allegiance to
                         both the Union and the Confederacy predominated. Moreover, thousands of
                         arrests occurred for offenses that did not rise to issues of
                         constitutionally protected civil liberties. These included selling liquor
                         to soldiers, smuggling goods to the South, running blockades, and fraud and
                         corruption in making con- tracts with the federal government to supply and
                         feed the army. Such arrests were made amid the "friction and
                         abrasion" of war, and very few rose to the level of a
                         "politically significant" threat to civil liberties. By
                         highlighting the vast number of incidental arrests in comparison to those
                         of political significance, Neely tempered his criticism of Lincoln's
                         record: It seems unlikely that any significant
                              number of arrests of politically important individuals have been
                              overlooked. Such cases  provoked
                              speeches in legislature, pamphlet protests, and newspaper copy. They
                              were few in number. Most prisoners of state came from incidents of
                                   war.3


                    Little known as it is, Alexander J. Douglas's arrest merits careful
                         consideration. It was important because it prompted Morton's interven
                         tion and intercession with Lincoln to rein in an army commander whose
                         heavy-handed methods were creating havoc in the Midwest. The details of
                         Douglas's arrest and its significance emerge from an examination of
                         federal and state archives and manuscripts that most historians who have
                         studied such arrests have overlooked. This study is the fruit of piecing
                         together numerous strands found in disparate locations.
                    In examining the Douglas arrest in detail, we gain an understanding of
                         important dynamics at work during the Civil War. First, the case shows the
                         important role of a state executive in the creation of national policy. The
                         arrest and trial created significant friction between military authorities
                         and civil authority at the state level. Indiana Governor Morton intervened
                         in the matter, and politically outmaneuvered General Burnside. Coming amid
                         a larger power struggle between the governor and the general, the Douglas
                         case added tension to their already strained working relationship. Second,
                         Douglas's arrest generated local protests and rallies in both 
                         Ohio
                         and Indiana.4 Examining the arrest of a political
                         leader of local significance, and the local opposition to the Lincoln
                         administration it generated, will aid our understanding of how antiwar
                         protest manifested itself throughout the North, and remind us not to ignore
                         apparently local and insignificant events. Last, the episode helps shed
                         light on the rise to prominence of Milligan, whose skillful legal defense
                         in the military commission trial advanced him in the public's eye and
                         encouraged him to play a leading role in both Democratic party politics and
                         secret organizations to undermine the Lincoln administration in the
                         North.




                    
                         3Mark E. Neely, Jr., The Fate of
                              Liberty: Abraham Lincoln and Civil Liberties (New York,
                              1991), 53, 124, 132, 133. Neely first developed this thesis in
                              "The Lincoln Administration and Arbitrary Arrests: A
                              Reconsideration," Journal of the Abraham Lincoln
                                   Association, 5 (1983), 6-24.
                         4Neely argued that military arrests were few and
                              did not greatly affect the Northern population: "Arbitrary
                              arrests caused few remarkable disorders, no matter how sensational the
                              case or how famous the victim." See Neely, "The Lincoln
                              Administration and Arbitrary Arrests," 11.
                    


                    








                    Alexander J. Douglass was born in 1827 in Richland County, Ohio, near the
                         town of Mansfield, the son of farmers. When Alexander was twelve, an attack
                         of rheumatism crippled his father, rendering the older man unable to work.
                         Alexander and his two younger brothers Thomas and Michael farmed the land
                         to support their parents and two younger sisters. When not busy farming,
                         Alexander attended a local school in the winter. Reputed to be a voracious
                         reader as a youth, he began to teach school locally at eighteen. He soon
                         enrolled at a local academy (or high school) at nearby Ashland, and then at
                         Wittenberg College in Springfield, Ohio. It was at this time he dropped the
                         second "s" in his family name. Douglas intended to study for a
                         career in law, but the college aimed to produce pastors for Lutheran
                         congregations. Notwithstanding that he and his family were Presbyterians,
                         Douglas studied for the Lutheran ministry. However, he failed his
                         examination for the pastorate and did not graduate, as the examining
                         committee was not satisfied by his answers to questions on accepted
                              doctrine.5 His failure to receive full
                         credentials did not hinder him from filling Lutheran pulpits for many years
                         later in his life, nor from teaching in church schools up until his death.
                         Shortly after leaving Wittenberg in 1850 he married Mary Jenner, of a
                         prominent Richland County family.
                    Douglas's failure to become a Lutheran pastor allowed him to revert to
                         his earlier ambition to practice law. After teaching school for two years
                         in Upper Sandusky, Ohio, he read law in the Mansfield firm of Samuel J.
                         Kirkwood and Barnabas Burns. After three years of toil and study, Douglas
                         passed the Ohio bar in 1855. The Douglas family resettled in Whitley
                         County, Indiana, nearly due west of Richland County, Ohio, by about
                         one-hundred-seventy miles. There the family grew, with a succession of
                         children added to the couple. After teaching at the Wartburg Seminary,
                         Douglas established a law practice in Columbia City and soon began to
                         develop a name as an effective Democratic Party speaker and advocate. He
                         won election as Whitley
                              County prosecutor in 1858, and played an active
                         role in public affairs in the county and the surrounding region.
                         Appointment as county school examiner followed. Later in that year he
                         offered himself for his party's choice for state representative, but
                         came in third place in the candidate selection process. In 
                              5Douglas, Time to Remember
                                   35-38. My thanks to the Wittenberg University alumni records
                                   office for their assistance.
                         
                          addition to holding public offices,
                         Douglas continued to teach at a local Lutheran school.6
                    In common with a substantial minority of his fellow Democrats at the outset
                         of war in 1861, Douglas voiced his decided opposition to federal
                         coercion. Reacting to a pro-war sermon preached in a local Lutheran church,
                         he announced in a long letter in Columbia City's Democratic newspaper
                         that he did not want "blood on my garments." A speech at a county
                         party convention in September 1861 again embroiled him in dispute. While
                         denying that he termed a recently recruited volunteer company a bunch of
                         "yellow legged abolitionists," he admitted to having said that
                         there was "disloyalty in places where loyalty was pretended." The
                         denominational and oratorical controversies do not appear to have damaged
                         his standing in the community, at least among the Democratic majority:
                         Douglas won reappointment as county school examiner, and the newspaper
                         reported that his private, Lutheran school enjoyed a large enrollment.7
                    Democrats in Whitley County selected Douglas to represent them as a delegate
                         at the important January 8, 1862, state party convention in Indianapolis.
                         There, state Democrats resolved on a strongly worded anti-war "Union
                         as it was, and the supremacy of the Constitution" platform. Though not
                         without disputes among factions within the party, Democrats denounced the
                         Lincoln administration's policies to coerce the Southern states as
                         illegal and unconstitutional, and demanded that the federal government
                         begin peaceful efforts to reunite the country. Emancipation of slaves and
                         the interference with states' institutions they denounced. The
                         suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus leading to
                         "arbitrary arrests" of civilians and violent suppression of
                         Democratic newspapers critical of Republican party policies they
                              deplored.8
                    In the coming months newspapers in the northeastern Indiana region reported
                         Douglas's speeches in a number of towns. In July, 
                              6A Biographical History of
                                   Eminent and Self-made Men of the State of Indiana.... 2
                                   vols. (Cincinnati, Ohio, 1880), vol. 2, District 12, pp. 23-24.
                                   Kirkwood subsequently moved to Iowa and became Governor and
                                   United States Senator. See Dan Elbert Clark, Samuel
                                        Jordan Kirkwood, Iowa Biographical Series (Iowa City,
                                   1917). Barnabas Burns during the Civil War commanded an Ohio
                                   volunteer regiment and was a prominent pro-war Democrat.
                              7Columbia City News, May
                                   21, May 28, June 4, June 11,June 18,June 25, September 10,
                                   1861.
                              8Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana
                                   Politics during the Civil War (1949; Bloomington, Ind.,
                                   1978), 129-33; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                                        Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (Indianapolis, 1965),
                                   118.
                         
                          Democrats from Huntington and Whitley
                         Counties chose him to be their candidate for state senator in the upcoming
                         election. Douglas campaigned vigorously through the two counties,
                         following many of the tenets established by the state party at its January
                         convention and winning praise for having "backbone" and being a
                         good speaker.9 In keeping with the party platform plank
                         of denouncing Northern sectionalism as the source of civil war, he stated
                         that noted New England abolitionist Wendell Phillips and his ilk were worse
                         disunionists than Jefferson Davis, the president of the rebel Southern
                              Confederacy.10 Fellow Democratic antiwar firebrand
                         Lambdin P. Milligan, a Huntington attorney, often shared the platform
                         where Douglas spoke. Milligan at the time had sought the Democratic
                         nomination for the U.S. House of Representatives for the 11th District in
                         the counties around Fort Wayne, but was rebuffed. Still, he campaigned
                         energetically in the summer and fall, and in a Whitley County speech
                         blasted the Lincoln administration's illegal war, asserted that the
                         administration did not wish to suppress the rebellion, and claimed the
                         honor of being the first person in Indiana to denounce "this war as
                         unnecessary, unjust and infamous!"11 In
                         Indiana's 1862 congressional election, Democratic candidates rode the
                         wave of their party's revival, based on public displeasure with the
                         Lincoln administration's failures to subdue the rebellion and on
                         indignation at the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, military
                         arrests of civilians, suppression of the Democratic press, and other
                         Republican policies. Democratic candidates in Indiana nearly swept their
                         races, and their party regained majorities in both chambers of the General
                         Assembly. Douglas handily defeated his Republican opponent by a majority of
                         301 votes.
                    At the opening of the General Assembly in January 1863, Douglas and his
                         fellow Democrats enjoyed their restored preeminence in the state
                         legislature, and promised the party faithful that they would, among other
                         things, clip the wings of Indiana's domineering Republican gover-
                              
                              9Fort Wayne Weekly
                                        Sentinel, August 2, 1862.
                              10Columbia City News, July
                                   22, July 29, 1862.
                              11See the Columbia City
                                        Republican, n.d., reprinted in the Huntington Indiana Herald, August 6, 1862.
                                   Morton's private secretary, W. R. Holloway, sent a clipping
                                   of the Herald article to United States Attorney
                                   for Indiana, John Hanna, and wrote: "Enclosed please find
                                   some extracts from the Huntington Herald. He should be arrested
                                   at once. Please give this your personal and immediate
                                   attention." Holloway to Hanna, August 15, 1862, in John
                                   Hanna Papers, Lilly Library, Indiana University,
                                   Bloomington.
                         
                         
                         
                              Indiana Governor Oliver P Morton. Morton opposed both
                                   the antiwar plans of the state's Democrat-controlled
                                   legislature and the attempts of Maj. Gen. Ambrose Burnside to
                                   control public speech.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society
                          nor. The power struggle in the 1863 session between the majority
                         Democrats and the minority Republicans led by Morton was undoubtedly the
                         most dangerously contentious in the General Assembly's history.
                         Douglas, though a new state senator and generally quiet during the vitu
                         perative debates, participated in the raucous session. Caucus leaders
                         appointed him to several committees, most importantly the Senate Committee
                         on Education, where he employed his teaching experience in crafting and
                         rewriting legislation to fit Democratic racial ideology.12




                    
                         12Brevier Legislative Reports
                              (South Bend, 1863), 80, 127, 153. Works on the 1863 General Assembly
                              include Lorna Lutes Sylvester, "Oliver P. Morton and the Indiana
                              Legislature of 1863," in Robert G. Barrows, ed., Their Infinite Variety: Essays on Indiana Politicians,
                              Indiana Historical Collections, vol. 53 (Indianapolis, 1981), 123-54;
                              and Justin E. Walsh, The Centennial History of the
                                   Indiana General Assembly, 1816-1987 (Indianapolis,
                              1987).
                    


                    




                    Douglas raised his voice to speak in the Senate on other issues pertaining
                         to race. In February he spoke to amend a resolution from the Committee on
                         Federal Affairs that the Lincoln administration, in possible peace talks
                         with the "seceded States," should not interfere with the rights
                         of the Southern states to protect slavery. Two days later, in a debate on
                         the merits or dangers of arming ex-slaves for service in the Union army, he
                         questioned a Republican senator about the possibility of Lincoln
                         withdrawing the Emancipation Proclamation: "Suppose he takes it back,
                         won't he stand just where he did before he issued it?"13
                    Douglas saved his eloquence for an impassioned address near the end of the
                         session during a debate on how the General Assembly should communicate its
                         views to Indiana's soldiers in the field. Many Indiana regiments,
                         irritated by Democratic sentiment in the North, which they increasingly
                         viewed as disloyal, had sent threatening memorials to the
                         Democrat-controlled legislature in disapproval of its utterances and
                         efforts, most notably its attempts to wrest power from Morton. Douglas rose
                         to defend the majority-written report that was to be sent to the Indiana
                         troops, depicting Democratic legislators as "true and loyal men."
                         He castigated the Republican minority report for encouraging the army to
                         believe the Democrats were disloyal. "You are afraid the army will
                         have faith and confidence in the Democratic party, and you are working
                         might and main against it." Sending the majority report, Douglas
                         maintained, would show the troops that the Democrats were "ready and
                         willing to stand up for that unity of Government -- the Union -- the entire
                         Union." He also accused Republicans of attempting to monopolize power.
                         Responding to an opposing senator's statement that Republicans
                         controlled "more type and presses and papers than we," Douglas
                         replied: Yes, well may he say it; and in a short
                              time they will [have] all of them, for they are demolishing Democratic
                              presses one after another until bye and bye we will not have a
                              Democratic press left us. Saturday night Samuel Medary's press
                              went down -- one after another they are blotted out by this loyal party.14
                         
                              13Brevier Legislative
                                        Reports (1863), 131, 138.
                              14Ibid., 228-29. Leading Ohio peace Democrat
                                   Samuel Medary and his newspaper, The Crisis,
                                   suffered violent attacks and arrest during the Civil War. See
                                   Reed W. Smith, Samuel Medary and The Crisis:
                                        Testing the Limits of Press Freedom
                                   (Columbus, Ohio, 1995).
                         
                          When Republican legislators
                         "bolted" the session and the capitol, leaving the Democrats
                         without a legal quorum to do business, the session collapsed and ended.
                         Douglas returned home to Columbia City on the March 10 morning train,
                         "looking well" in the eyes of the town's Democratic
                         newspaper editor, and resumed his legal practice. As the Assembly had not
                         passed a budget bill to fund state government, Democratic legislators
                         confidently expected to be called back into special session by the
                         governor. Democrats would then pass legislation to wrest military power
                         from the governor and take control of state government. But Morton quite
                         illegally opted not to call a special session, and instead borrowed funds
                         from private banks, Republican-controlled county governments, and the War
                         Department to pay necessary state expenses. The frustrated Democratic
                         legislators stayed home. Douglas attended to business and played an active
                         role in party affairs, participating in the raucous Democratic meeting at
                         Fort Wayne on April 29.15
                    In early May, Senator Douglas and two of his daughters traveled to his
                         hometown of Mansfield, Ohio, to attend the wedding of his younger brother,
                         Capt. Thomas E. Douglass, and to visit family. The captain, commanding a
                         company of Richland County recruits in the 15th Ohio Volunteer Infantry
                         Regiment, had been shot through the lungs at the battle of Stones River in
                         Tennessee in early January.16 The visit should have
                         been a pleasant interlude, an opportunity for the Indiana Democrat to mend
                         fences with his Republican brothers amid the wedding festivities and the
                         celebration of the captain's survival. However, the senator was pulled
                         into the maelstrom of Ohio and national politics. Former Ohio Congressman
                         Clement L. Vallandigham, the Midwest's leading antiwar political
                         figure, had returned from 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , intent on stirring up the
                         Democratic Party in his state. Voted out of the U.S. House of
                         Representatives after his congressional district was gerrymandered to favor
                         a Republican candidate, Vallandigham was intent on securing the Democratic
                         nomination for governor of Ohio at the state party conven- tion in June.
                         Speaking at several venues in the state, Vallandigham worked to mobilize
                         the strong antiwar wing of the party and to gain its 
                              15Columbia City News,
                                   March 10, 1863; (Fort Wayne) Dawson's Daily
                                        Times and Union, April 30, 1863. Leading antiwar
                                   Democrats Milligan and Harrison H. Dodd, among others, spoke at
                                   the Fort Wayne rally.
                              16Alexis Cope, The Fifteenth
                                   Ohio Volunteers and Its Campaigns, War of 1861-5
                                   (Columbus, Ohio, 1916), 245.
                         
                          backing for his nomination. At a rally
                         at Columbus on April 30, he attacked Burnside's General Orders Number
                         38. The general's order, announced earlier in the month, came as a
                         reaction to rising antiwar sentiment in the states under his command.
                         Burnside was intent on stamping it out, and aimed to use military power to
                         do so. The order stated that "treason expressed or implied will not be
                         tolerated," and that expressions of opposition to the government
                         and/or sympathy for the Southern rebels would be punished by military
                         authority. Burnside had publicly stated his view that military authority
                         was "invested with a little more power [than civil authority] in
                         suppressing anything like treason, and acts that tend to create
                              dissention."17 Vallandigham ripped into the
                         order as an illegal and unconstitutional usurpation of authority and a
                         violation of free speech. The following day Vallandigham spoke to a large
                         Democratic audience at Mount Vernon, Ohio, and again castigated
                         Burnside's military order in rich terms. On this occasion, the general
                         had sent observers to the meeting who reported back the substance of the
                         speech. Burnside dispatched a company of troops to Vallandigham's
                         hometown of Dayton to arrest the speaker. There, in the dark, early morning
                         hours of May 5, troops surrounded his house, battered the door down, and
                         arrested the former congressman. They took Vallandigham to Burnside's
                         Cincinnati headquarters and deposited him securely in Kemper Barracks, a
                         military prison there. Burnside acted promptly to initiate a military
                         commission trial of the prisoner for violating his general orders.18
                    Dayton dissolved into chaos when daylight came. Alerted to the news of
                         Vallandigham's arrest, Democrats from surrounding communities poured
                         into the city to join their compatriots in riot, torched the city's
                         Republican newspaper, and managed to burn part of the downtown in the
                         process. Troops arrived from Cincinnati and Columbus, battled the
                         rioters, and put out the fires. Military commanders, with the assent of
                         Ohio Governor David Tod, imposed martial law on the city, arrested many
                         rioters, and restored order. Burnside quickly convened a military
                         commission trial for Vallandigham on the morning of May 6, 
                              17Cincinnati Daily
                                        Commercial, April 20, 1863.
                              18Frank L. Klement, The Limits
                                        of Dissent: Clement L. Vallandigham and the Civil War
                                   (1970; New York, 1998), 152-60, 164-66; William Marvel, Burnside
                                   (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1991), 235- 37. See also Michael Kent Curtis,
                                   "Lincoln, Vallandigham, and Anti-war Speech in the Civil
                                   War," William and Mary Bill of Rights
                                        Journal, 7 (December 1998), 105-191.
                         
                          and on that day an army captain (one of
                         two officers sent to hear the speech, both dressed in civilian clothes)
                         testified as to what he saw and heard of the Democrat's speech at Mt.
                         Vernon. The trial continued for another day, and in the evening of May 7
                         the commission found the former congressman guilty of publicly expressing
                         sympathy for the rebels in arms against the United States, in violation of
                         General Orders Number 38. The Cincinnati newspapers reported on the trial
                         in detail, and the news spread throughout the country.19
                    While Republicans and pro-war Democrats rejoiced at the news of
                         Vallandigham's arrest, the reports provoked both shock and outrage
                         among Democrats throughout the Northwest. Ohio Democrats were stunned.
                         Democrats in Crestline, a railroad junction town five miles west of
                         Mansfield, were especially shaken. They had expected Vallandigham to speak
                         there on May 7 as the star attraction at a party rally. Casting about,
                         organizers invited visiting Indiana State Senator Douglas to speak in his
                              stead.20
                    On a "dark, dreary and dismal" Thursday afternoon which threat
                         ened rain, two days after Vallandigham's military arrest and the
                         Dayton riot suppressed by martial law, Douglas, local speakers, assembled
                         Democrats, and other onlookers moved the open-air rally indoors and huddled
                         in a large stable on the edge of the town. Democrats in the audience
                         "gave three cheers for Val., and three groans for General
                         Burnside." According to an eyewitness account of the rally published
                         in the Republican Bucyrus Weekly Journal newspaper,
                         handbills circulated in the town stating that Vallandigham had been killed.
                         The crowd, angry, loud, and boisterous, had been warmed up by two speakers
                         before Douglas. They had been warmed up as well by the "kindly
                         influences of free whisky." The Democrats directed rude epithets and
                         threats at the Republican onlookers in attendance. Cheers for "Jeff.
                         Davis" and cries of "d-----d abolitionist" emanated from the
                         crowd. "Frequently during the speeches, when anything was said by the
                         speakers that was, in the estimation of the secesh sympathizers, severe
                         on the Administration, or any of our Union Generals, a lot of the
                         butternuts would call out -- 'That's 
                              19Klement, The Limits of
                                        Dissent, 166-68. The transcript of the trial appears in
                                        The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                        Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies
                                   (
                                        Washington
                                   , 1899), series 2, vol. 5, 634ff, hereafter cited as
                                        OR.
                              20Crestline Democrats polled a two-hundred-vote majority in
                                   their township elections in early April. Cincinnati
                                        Daily Enquirer, April 9, 1863.
                         
                          what's the matter, by
                         G-d."' When it was his turn to speak, according to the report,
                         Douglas said he did not like the name Copperhead.
                              Some one in the crowd suggested that it was altogether appropriate. He
                              then pronounced a eulogy on Val.; then abused the Administration;
                              then slandered a certain Judge Harris; and then slandered the protes
                              tant churches. He never had, and never would support the war policy of
                              the Administration. He, the speaker, advised, though a marshal might
                              be present, the crowd to buy powder and lead and resist military
                              arrests. He called our Government the greatest despotism in the world.
                              Resolutions were here offered, for which see Forum. The resolutions passed at the rally included a
                         statement repudiating military arrests of civilians. Several additional
                         speakers addressed the rally before it wrapped up late in the afternoon.21
                    The pro-Union eyewitness to the rally who wrote the account for the Journal significantly noted the presence of other
                         Unionists at the rally. "Union men who were present, who did not say
                         aught, were abused; and were personally pointed out by some of the hearers,
                         and also some of the speakers, as spies." The Crestline audience knew
                         from reading the Cincinnati newspaper reports of the first day of the
                         Vallandigham trial that the army's prosecution rested on the testimony
                         of an army officer in civilian clothes planted in the audience. Democrats
                         also resented the rise of the Union League movement, a Republican network
                         of secret lodges consciously organized as a counter-balance to the
                         Democrats' secret Knights of the Golden Circle lodges throughout the
                         Midwest. As the war continued, tensions increased between these antag-
                              
                              21Bucyrus Weekly Journal,
                                   May 15, 1863. The Forum referred to is the Crawford County Forum, the Democratic
                                   newspaper of Bucyrus, copies of which for the dates in question
                                   are not extant. Leading Ohio antiwar Democrat Samuel
                                   Medary's newspaper The Crisis also
                                   reported that Douglas spoke at the Crestline meeting and printed
                                   the resolutions passed. It later noted Douglas's arrest. See
                                        The Crisis of May 20 and May 27, 1863. The
                                        Huntington Democrat later noted that
                                   Douglas also spoke at Riblet's School House in Richland County on May 8. See Huntington Democrat,
                                   August 6, 1863. The Bucyrus Weekly Journal of
                                   May 15 also reprinted a Cleveland newspaper piece noting that a
                                   United States marshal was indeed in attendance at the Crestline
                                   rally.
                         
                          onistic groups, and both sides began to
                         arm themselves in preparation for violent conflict. Thus, amid the growing
                         tension, the Journal's eye-witness wrote: "it
                         would not have been safe for a Union man to have attempted to report the
                         speeches with pencil and paper." But "[t]here were men present at
                         the butternut meeting who did hear, and who are willing
                         to tell publicly what they heard."22
                    The Unionists in Crestline took matters into their own hands. Evidence
                         suggests they reported the speech to government authorities and requested
                         government intervention to punish the speaker. News of Douglas's
                         speech reached Governor Tod by May 12. W. W. Bagley, the Crestline agent of
                         the Cleveland, Columbus & Cincinnati Railroad, telegraphed: Competent authority to decide upon charges preferred
                              being sufficient to warrant arrest as also to make the arrest should
                              be sent here and thence to Mansfield today. The
                                   evidence is already [crossed out in original telegram] The
                              man goes to Indiana tomorrow morning -- The evidence is all ready &
                              the charge if anything worse than those preferred against
                              Vallandigham. This move breaks in upon an organization to arm as
                              against arrests. Parties preferring the charges are here waiting.23 Tod, a lifelong Democrat, had been a
                         firm supporter of the federal war effort from the beginning of the war. In
                         the matter at hand he acted 
                              22Bucyrus Weekly Journal,
                                   May 15, 1863. For a study of the rise of the Union Leagues in the
                                   North during the Civil War, see Frank L. Klement, Dark Lanterns: Secret Political Societies, Conspiracies,
                                        and Treason Trials in the Civil War (Baton Rouge, La.,
                                   1984), 34-63. Klement discounted the existence of the Knights
                                   of the Golden Circle organization, suggesting that it was merely
                                   a Republican "concoction" employed to portray Democrats
                                   as traitors. See Klement, Dark Lanterns, 7-33,
                                   and also his The Copperheads in the Middle West
                                   (Chicago, 1960); "Carrington and the Golden Circle Legend in
                                   Indiana during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine
                                        of History, 61 (March 1965), 31-52; "Ohio and the
                                   Knights of the Golden Circle: The Evolution of a Civil War
                                   Myth," Cincinnati Historical Society
                                        Bulletin, 32 (Spring-Summer 1974), 7-27. Klement's
                                   thesis of the nonexistence of the KGC has been influential among
                                   historians, but some have begun to challenge it. See Jennifer L.
                                   Weber, Copperheads: The Rise and Fall of
                                        Lincoln's Opponents in the North (New York,
                                   2006).
                              23Bagley to Tod, May 12, 1863, in State
                                   Archives Series 145, Telegram Received, box 50,006B, box 6,
                                   folder 2, Ohio Historical Society, Columbus, Ohio; a copy of the
                                   telegram appears also in RG 109 M345, roll 76, National Archives
                                   and Records Administration, 
                                        Washington, D.C.
                                   , here-after cited
                                   as NARA.
                         
                          promptly to punish opposition speech.
                         That day he consulted with the commander of U.S. Army forces at Columbus,
                         Brig. Gen. John S. Mason. Mason agreed to send a junior officer, Lt. J. B.
                         Irwin, immediately to Crestline and Mansfield to investigate the
                         circumstances. Mason's orders specified that: If upon learning from [Bagley] a full statement of the case, you are
                              fully satisfied that it is sufficiently aggravated to warrant an
                              arrest, and if the party is of sufficient importance, you will pro
                              ceed to Mansfield Ohio, where you will consult with Mr. John Sherman,
                              and if in his opinion the best interests of the service will be
                              advanced, by so doing, you will take the necessary affidavits and
                              arrest the party, or parties, and bring them to this city.24 Mr. John Sherman was in fact
                         Republican U.S. Senator John Sherman, resident of Mansfield, at home during
                         Congress's spring recess. The sen- ator, an important leader in
                         
                              Washington
                         , had spoken a few days earlier at the Union rally in Fort Wayne,
                         Indiana, which had provoked a riot in that strongly Democratic city. On May
                         7, the day of the nearby Crestline Democratic rally and Douglas's
                         speech, Sherman wrote from Mansfield to his brother, Maj. Gen. William
                         Tecumseh Sherman, then in Mississippi fighting to capture the rebel
                         stronghold of Vicksburg. Senator Sherman's assessment of the mood in
                         Ohio immediately after Vallandigham's arrest was favorable but
                         cautious: Here nothing occurs worth noting. If
                              there is any change it is for the better. The tone of popular opinion
                              is more patriotic[.] There are fewer noisy Butternuts, and most of
                              those think their bad talk is only from opposition to the
                              Administration. The only danger is that this will become downright
                              opposition and resistance to the war be the inevitable result. A good
                              many scary people are afraid of this but I am too much accustomed to
                              political quarrels to 
                                   24Unsigned letter, probably written by
                                        Mason's assistant adjutant general, Capt. John Green,
                                        to Lt. Irwin, May 12, 1863, RG 393 Part IV, Post of
                                        Columbus, Ohio Records, E 270, Letters Sent, NARA; a copy
                                        also is found in RG 109 M345, roll 76, NARA.
                              
                               look for danger from them. There
                              may be occasional riots as there was one the other day in Fort Wayne,
                              when I made a speech but both parties pledged themselves in the war
                              and only differed about the nigger and administration measures. The
                              difference may widen and unless we have military success will widen
                              until we have open and hostile "war" and "Peace"
                              parties.25



                    Sherman no doubt had heard reports of the Crestline speeches, and so when the
                         army lieutenant called on him he approved the arrest. Having found Douglas
                         to be sufficiently important, Lieutenant Irwin and troops under his command
                         made the arrest at the railroad station at Crestline the following morning,
                         May 13, where the Indiana Democrat was awaiting a homeward train with his
                         two young daughters, Alice and Elizabeth. The troops carried Douglas away,
                         leaving the two girls alone at the train station. The troops took their
                         prisoner to Columbus, where Douglas was held in the City Barracks. That day
                         Mason sent Douglas under guard to Cincinnati, and wrote to his immediate
                         superior, Brig. Gen. Jacob D. Cox at Cincinnati, commander of the military
                         district of Ohio, with copies of the paperwork generated in the matter.
                         Mason wrote, "The party was sent at the suggestion of the Governor. At
                         his request also I will send an officer with a party of twelve or fifteen
                         men to 
                              25John Sherman to William T. Sherman, May 7,
                                   1863, in William Tecumseh Sherman Papers, microfilm roll 7,
                                   Library of Congress, 
                                        Washington, D.C.
                                    A daughter of Gen. Sherman
                                   published edited texts of the two brothers' letters in 1894,
                                   a time when Senator Sherman was still alive (he died in 1900).
                                   The editing was so extensive as to create severe distortions of
                                   meaning. A comparison of the edited version of John Shermans
                                   long letter of May 7 to the original letter reveals striking
                                   omissions in the published version. Editor Rachel Sherman
                                   Thorndyke excised the senator's scathing references to
                                   President Lincoln that revealed his lack of confidence in the
                                   occupant of the White House. He wrote originally: "How
                                   fervently I wish Lincoln was out of the way. Anybody would do
                                   better. I was among the first of his political friends to
                                   acknowledge how fearfully we were mistaken in him. He has not a
                                   single quality helping his plea....He is as unstable as
                                   water -- afraid of a child....[H]e is unfit to control events and it
                                   is fearful to think what may come during his time. What he will
                                   do now it is impossible to say. He is subject to the deepest
                                   depression of spirits amounting to Monomania. He looked upon
                                   Hooker as his last card....[T]he war is prolonged, and but little
                                   chance of its ending until we have a new deal (a new
                                   President)....I certainly would be glad to support a War
                                   Democrat -- any body rather than our monkey President. If the latter
                                   is renominated which I do not anticipate then I certainly will
                                   raise the banner of opposition. The Nation could not endure his
                                   reelection." Ibid. None of these comments appears in the
                                   published version. See Rachel Sherman Thorndyke, The
                                        Sherman Letters: Correspondence Between General and Senator
                                        Sherman from 1837 to 1891 (New York, 1894),
                                   203-205.
                         
                          Crestline this afternoon as he has an
                         intimation of trouble there which he thinks can be prevented by a small
                              force."26
                    The arrest of Douglas at Crestline created a furor among the town's
                         Democrats. Ohio newspapers reported that Democrats "threatened to tear
                         up the railroad," "burn the town," and "mob the Union
                         men," but the squad of seventeen troops sent from Columbus on Governor
                         Tod's suggestion quelled the disturbance. The newspapers reported that
                         Douglas had "advised resistance to the conscription," and was
                         arrested for violating General Orders Number 38.27
                    General Cox promptly turned Douglas over to his superior, Major General
                         Burnside, commander of the Department of the Ohio. Burnside's officers
                         imprisoned Douglas in Kemper Barracks, on Columbia Street in Cincinnati,
                         described by one of Burnside's staff officers as "our Libby
                         Prison." It housed many of the prisoners arrested by Burnside's
                         orders, including Vallandigham and several Dayton rioters, along with
                         deserters and spies. One of several military prisons in the city, Kemper
                         held "over two hundred rebel, civil, and political prisoners...of all
                         classes, conditions and sexes."28 Most of the
                         prisoners hailed from Kentucky. According to one of Burnside's staff
                         officers, General Orders Number 38 had had the effect of filling the
                         military prisons. Two companies of troops surrounded and guarded the
                         prison, a miserable hole from which prisoners desperately wanted release.
                         During the first week 
                              26Gen. Mason to Gen. Cox, May 13, 1863, RG
                                   393 Part IV, E 270, NARA; also found in RG 109 M345, roll 76,
                                   NARA. After his release Douglas described his arrest in several
                                   speeches. A newspaper reported Douglas's speech at the July
                                   18 Democratic meeting at Warren in Huntington County: "He
                                   had been on a visit to Ohio with his two little daughters; had
                                   received after a week's sojourn, a telegram announcing the
                                   sudden illness of his wife, and prepared to come home. He was
                                   seized at the railroad station by a military squad, dragged away
                                   from his two children, who were left among strangers with no one
                                   to take care of them, and hurried away to a military
                                   prison." Douglas also said he was "cheered in his
                                   confinement by the Spartan like firmness of his wife, whose
                                   soothing letters inspired him. She advised him not to take the
                                   oath of allegiance; and to remain steadfast to Democratic
                                   principles." Huntington Democrat, July 23,
                                   1863. The troops also arrested a deserter in Mansfield during the
                                   expedition. Bucyrus Weekly Journal, May 15,
                                   1863.
                              27Cincinnati Daily
                                        Commercial, May 14, 1863; Cincinnati Daily
                                             Gazette, May 14, 1863; (Columbus) Daily
                                        Ohio State Journal, May 14, 1863.
                              28Journal of Daniel Read Lamed, entry of May
                                   14, 1863, Daniel Read Lamed Papers, Library of Congress,
                                   hereafter Lamed Papers; Arnold Shankman, ed.,
                                   "Vallandigham's Arrest and the 1863 Dayton Riot -- Two
                                   Letters," Ohio History, 79 (Spring 1970),
                                   122. The Cincinnati Daily Enquirer of May 15,
                                   1863, stated one hundred and eighteen political prisoners were
                                   held in Kemper Barracks at the time.
                         
                         
                         
                              Major General Ambrose Burnside, c. 1861. His General
                                   Orders Number 38 attempted to punish civilian speech opposing
                                   Lincoln and the war.
                              Courtesy of the Library of Congress
                         
                          of Douglas's imprisonment, guards
                         foiled an escape attempt by thirty inmates when the wife of one of the men
                         alerted officers.29
                    Widespread accolades and congratulations showered on Burnside from Republican
                         newspapers after Vallandigham's and Douglas's arrests. The Cincinnati Daily Commercial, a major Republican
                         newspaper, editorialized: Words can be made as
                              mischievous as bullets, and are certain to develop themselves in acts.
                              Where, as in Dayton, Crestline, Lancaster, and other points there are
                              repeated outbreaks in opposition to the authority of the Government,
                              and a seditious spirit manifests itself, we may be sure that the
                              freedom of speech and the press has been perverted to mischievous
                              objects, and unrestrained, will lead to deplorable consequences. No
                              truly loyal man, however, feels that Order no. 38 is a burden upon
                                   him.30 Buoyed by this reception,
                         Burnside and his staff prepared to put Douglas up for trial before the same
                         military commission that heard Vallandigham's case and other alleged
                         violations of General Orders Number 38. Within a week of the Indiana
                         Democrat's arrest, military authorities in Cincinnati and Columbus
                         prepared affidavits and gathered the witnesses to the Crestline speech.31 Capt. James Madison Cutts Jr., the judge advocate who
                         tried Vallandigham, left Cincinnati for 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , to attend his
                         father's funeral and so was not available to lead the prosecution. In
                         his stead, Burnside appointed Capt. Robert Hale Ives Goddard, a trusted
                         staff officer, to serve as judge advocate in the Douglas trial. A member of
                         a prominent Rhode Island family and Brown University graduate, Goddard
                         worked to prepare the army's case, ordering prosecution witnesses from
                         Crestline to report at departmental headquarters at Cincinnati on May 26.
                         The following day he requested 
                              29Cincinnati Daily
                                        Commercial, May 8, 1863; testimony of Capt. James M.
                                   Cutts, Jr., Exhibit "N," court martial case file of
                                   Capt. James M. Cutts, Jr., MM-0873, RG 153, NARA; Cincinnati Daily Gazette, May 19, 1863.
                              30Cincinnati Daily
                                        Commercial, May 15, 1863; Larned journal entry of May
                                   14, 1863, Larned Papers.
                              31Capt. John Green to Lt. [?], May 19, 1863,
                                   and Gen. Mason to Maj. Bascom, May 20, 1863, RG 393 Part IV,
                                   E270, NARA.
                         
                          defense witnesses to come to Cincinnati
                         for the trial. The Douglas trial was scheduled to commence on May 29.32
                    Several days after the arrest, the Indianapolis Daily
                         Journal reported the events of May 13 at Crestline briefly and
                         in passing. The news of Douglas's arrest appears not to have reached
                         his hometown promptly. The Huntington Democrat, a
                         weekly newspaper, first reported the story in its May 21 edition. It noted
                         that the charges against him were not known, but presumed that Douglas
                         "spoke his mind rather freely in relation to the designs of the men
                         in power." The Huntington Indiana Herald, a
                         Republican weekly, shortly thereafter reported that Huntington resident and
                         leading county Democrat Milligan was then in Cincinnati serving as
                         Douglas's defense counsel. In Milligan, Douglas had secured an
                         experienced trial attorney to defend him. However, no evidence exists to
                         suggest that Milligan had participated in any courts martial or military
                         commissions prior to his employment by Douglas.33
                    Another important Indiana figure became involved in the Douglas arrest case.
                         At the time of the arrest, Governor Morton had been embroiled in a series
                         of disputes with General Burnside and Burnside's subordinate Indiana
                         commander, Brig. Gen. Milo S. Hascall. Burnside had appointed Hascall to be
                         commander of the military district of Indiana on April 22 without
                         consulting with the governor. Three days later, Hascall promulgated (with
                         Burnside's blessing) his own order banning opposition political
                         speech in Indiana to be enforced by military power-General Orders Number 9.
                         The order, modeled on Burnside's, was Hascall's effort to stifle
                         Democratic criticism of the Lincoln administration and the army's
                         performance, and was tailored specifically for Indiana. Burnside and
                         Hascall aimed to use the military power at their disposal to silence
                         criticism and opposition to the government. Both 
                              32Capt. R. H. Goddard to Gen. Mason, May 26,
                                   1863, and Gen. Burnside to Gen. Mason, May 27, 1863, RG 393 Part
                                   IV, Camp Chase, Ohio Records, E 202, Telegrams Received,
                                   NARA.
                              33Indianapolis Daily
                                   Journal, May 18, 1863. Confusion in the Ohio newspapers
                                   as to Douglas's identity may have been the reason for the
                                   news reaching Indiana slowly. Some newspaper reports identified
                                   him as a Crestline resident; other newspapers claimed he was the
                                   editor of the Columbia City News. This may
                                   explain why there was neither a groundswell of indignation nor
                                   threats of violence in Whitley County and Columbia City
                                   immediately after his arrest. The first major Ohio newspaper to
                                   identify Douglas as an Indiana state senator was the Cincinnati Daily Gazette of May 26, 1863, with a
                                   telegraph dispatch from Indianapolis dated May 25. The Gazette was the regular conduit for leaks from
                                   Morton's office. The Columbia City News
                                   first reported the event in its May 26 edition, citing the Crawford County (Ohio) Forum.
                         
                          military orders enraged the Republican
                         Morton, who saw that such heavy-handed and shortsighted military measures
                         would undercut his authority in the state, and would reverse the gains he
                         had made that spring in harnessing Democrats both in and out of the General
                         Assembly. Equipped with intelligence that Democrats were arming and
                         preparing to resist government authority in several locales in Indiana,
                         Morton was concerned that blunderbuss tactics employed by military leaders
                         would foment uprisings. In late April, the governor succeeded in persuading
                         the generals not to launch a military expedition to Brown County after a
                         soldier and a Democratic state legislator were shot dead at a political
                         rally and hundreds of armed Democrats assembled to resist government
                              authority.34 However, in early May, Hascall arrested
                         several Indiana Democratic newspaper editors who had dared to criticize or
                         mock General Orders Number 9, and threatened other Democratic editors
                         with the same fate. A short period followed when opposition speech in
                         Indiana was muted from fear of arrest, but soon leading Democratic
                         political figures rallied across the state to condemn the military edicts.
                         Morton informed Hascall that he viewed both General Orders 9 and 38 as
                         illegal and counterproductive, and that he considered the arrest and trial
                         of Vallandigham by military commission as illegal. Hascall wrote Burnside
                         to report on his alarming conversation with the governor, and warned his
                         superior to beware of Morton. Taking the matter in hand, the governor
                         traveled to 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , several times in the month of May in an
                         effort to depose both Hascall and Burnside. There he lobbied President
                         Lincoln and cabinet members, most importantly Secretary of War Edwin M.
                         Stanton, to dismiss both of the generals.35
                    Lincoln had appointed Burnside to the command at Cincinnati as recently as
                         March, the general having been relieved from command of the Army of the
                         Potomac after the disastrous battle of Fredericksburg in December 1862. The
                         president hoped that the general, too prominent to leave unemployed, would
                         be out of the way yet able to build up and lead a large force to invade
                         eastern Tennessee. Though warned repeatedly by Morton and other governors
                         in the winter and early spring of 1863 of 
                              34G. R. Tredway, Democratic
                                   Opposition to the Lincoln Administration in Indiana,
                                   Indiana Historical Collections, vol. 48 (Indianapolis, 1973),
                                   80-83.
                              35See Stephen E. Towne, "Killing the
                                   Serpent Speedily: Governor Morton, General Hascall, and the
                                   Suppression of the Democratic Press in Indiana, 1863," Civil War History, 52 (March 2006),
                                   41-65.
                         
                          the dangerous condition of political
                         affairs in their states, Lincoln did not pay close attention or heed the
                         governors' advice. When conflict between the governors and Burnside
                         arose over the military's heavy-handed tactics and intrusion into
                         civil matters, and when chaos threatened to break out throughout the Old
                         Northwest, the president was unprepared. The political embarrassment of yet
                         again removing Burnside -- popular among many Republicans who relished the
                         general's get-tough edict -- was too risky. In a private meeting on
                         May 19, the president's cabinet members unanimously regretted
                         Burnside's arrest of Vallandigham. While the arrest had been popular
                         among Republicans, Democrats could now rally around the martyred former
                         congressman and hold him up as a victim of unconstitutional measures by the
                         Lincoln administration.36 Democrats throughout the
                         North did just that, and Vallandigham became a national hero for
                         Lincoln's opponents in every Northern state.
                    During his whirlwind visits to the national capitol in May, Morton learned
                         that the President and his cabinet were displeased with Burnside's
                         actions. While he failed to have Burnside sacked, Morton returned to
                         Indianapolis with a promise that Hascall would be removed from his Indiana
                         command. Significantly, during this period in May neither Lincoln nor his
                         cabinet communicated their displeasure about the Vallandigham arrest to
                         Burnside. Indeed, Stanton telegraphed the general shortly after the
                         arrest, stating "In your determination to support the authority of the
                         Government and suppress treason in your department, you may count on the
                         firm support of the President." Burnside interpreted this message as
                         hearty support for his policy of arrests for political speech.37




                    
                         36"The case of Vallandigham, recently
                              arrested by General Burnside, tried by court martial, convicted of
                              something and sentenced to Fort Warren was before the Cabinet. It was
                              an error on the part of Burnside. All regretted the arrest, but having
                              been made every one wished he had been sent over the lines to the
                              Rebels with whom he sympathizes. Until the subject is legitimately
                              before us, and there is a necessity to act there is no disposition to
                              meddle with the case." Entry of May 19, 1863, in Howard K. Beale
                              and Alan W. Brownsword, eds., Diary of Gideon Welles,
                                   Secretary of the Navy Under Lincoln and Johnson, 3 vols.
                              (New York, 1960), 1: 306. Burnside's biographer errs in
                              suggesting that Lincoln and the cabinet opposed General Orders Number
                              38 rather than the arrest of Vallandigham. See Marvel, Burnside, 238.
                         37Edwin M. Stanton to Gen. Burnside, May 8, 1863,
                              OR, series 1, vol. 23, pt. 2, 316; Burnside telegraphed Lincoln on May
                              8 thanking him for his message of support after Vallandighams arrest.
                              See Burnside to Lincoln, May 8, 1863, box 1, Letterbook number 2, p.
                              23, Ambrose E. Burnside Collection, Rhode Island Historical Society,
                              Providence, hereafter cited as Burnside
                    


                    



                    Burnside learned of the president's unhappiness with the Vallandigham
                         arrest and with his policy regarding opposition speech from two sources. In
                         the evening of May 28, William R. Holloway, Morton's private secretary
                         (and brother-in-law) took the night train to Cincinnati. The following
                         morning, the day that Senator Douglas's trial was to commence,
                         Holloway obtained a meeting with General Burnside at his headquarters,
                         where the secretary conveyed a letter from Governor Morton: Having received information that Mr. A. J. Douglass
                              a Senator of this State is now in confinement in your Department for
                              uttering treasonable sentiments, I have directed my private secretary
                              Mr. Holloway to visit you concerning the arrest. Will you please
                              inform him of the facts and give him any information that may be
                                   proper.38 Holloway informed Burnside
                         that the president and his cabinet did not support the general's
                         actions in the Vallandigham arrest or his general policy of arrests under
                         General Orders Number 38.
                    On that same morning, after Holloway's departure from headquarters,
                         similar information came from a separate but equally reliable source.
                         Captain Cutts, who had served on the general's staff for some time,
                         returned to Cincinnati from attending his father's funeral in
                         
                              Washington
                         . Cutts, a pro-war Democrat, was the brother of Adele Cutts
                         Douglas (widow of the late U.S. Senator Stephen A. Douglas), a Harvard
                         College graduate, and an accomplished attorney. He had successfully tried
                         Vallandigham weeks before, but had subsequently concluded that more
                         military commission trials of opposition leaders under General Orders
                         Number 38 would rebound against the army and the Lincoln 
                              Collection. Morton traveled to 
                                   Washington
                               on May 19 to confer
                                   with federal leaders, and probably learned of the sentiments of
                                   the cabinet meeting of that date. It is instructive to note that
                                   on May 20, while Morton was in 
                                        Washington
                                   , U.S. Army Chief of
                                   Staff Maj. Gen. Henry W Halleck -- probably at the governor's
                                   prompting -- wrote to Burnside of the dangers of injudicious
                                   district commanders and warned him to avoid conflicts with civil
                                   authorities, meaning the governors. See Halleck to Burnside, May
                                   20, 1863, box 7, Ambrose E. Burnside Papers, RG 94, NARA.
                              38Morton to Burnside, May 28, 1863, box 8,
                                   Burnside Papers, RG 94, NARA.
                         
                          administration. Cutts learned in
                         
                              Washington
                          that Lincoln and the cabinet considered the Vallandigham
                         arrest regrettable. According to a letter that he wrote to the president a
                         few weeks later, upon his arrival in Cincinnati his "first act was to
                         advise Genl Burnside not to try Mr. Douglas, State
                         Senator from Indiana -- telling him the country would not permit it -- that there
                         could be no more such trials as that of Mr. Vallandigham -- and that the
                         Administration were opposed to it." According to Cutts, Burnside
                         replied: I have just informed Governor
                              Morton's Private Secretary, sent here to see me about this very
                              man to return and tell Governor Morton that I would try him if he
                              violated order 38, and I said the same to Governor Tod himself. I want
                              them to understand that they are Governors of single States, while I
                              am Governor over five. Capt try every man who violates the order.39



                    Nonetheless, the news of the administration's opposition, conveyed by
                         two reliable sources, rattled the general. He quickly telegraphed President
                         Lincoln: A messenger from Govr. Morton came to me
                              this morning in reference to the arrest, by the military authorities
                              of a citizen of Indiana. I understood from him that my action in the
                              administration of affairs in this Department was not approved by a
                              single member of your Cabinet.
                         
                              39Cutts to Lincoln, July 26, 1863, Abraham
                                   Lincoln Papers (formerly the Robert Todd Lincoln Papers), Library
                                   of Congress. Cutts wrote to Lincoln in an effort to obtain
                                   clemency after his court martial trial resulting from a quarrel
                                   among Burnside's staff officers. Cutts had also disgraced
                                   himself in Burnside's eyes by being caught spying on a woman
                                   while she undressed at a Cincinnati hotel. Burnside stripped him
                                   of the judge advocate appointment. The court martial sentenced
                                   Cutts to be dismissed from the army, but Lincoln reduced the
                                   sentence to a reprimand. Cutts later distinguished himself in
                                   battle. See Bing G. Spitler, Hero of the Republic:
                                        The Biography of Triple Medal of Honor Winner J. Madison
                                        Cutts, Jr (Shippensburg, Pa., 2001). In his court
                                   martial trial, Cutts tried to enter evidence that the issue of
                                   military arrests under General Orders Number 38 was a central
                                   contention. Cutts called Burnside to the stand to testify, and
                                   asked him: "[W]ere you not also influenced by the fact that
                                   Capt Cutts differed with you on an important public question and
                                   you found it necessary to have some one who did agree with you
                                   more fully?" Burnside replied: "There were no such
                                   considerations as that entered into this appointment at
                                   all." See Cutts court martial case file, p. 73.
                         
                          The general, angry as well as shaken,
                         wrote that this news and the previous telegram of support which Stanton
                         had sent "convinces me that my action here has been a source of
                         embarrassment to you." However, the general voiced his continued faith
                         in a stringent approach to suppressing dissent, writing, "My views as
                         to the proper policy to be pursued in this Department are only changed in
                         the belief that the present policy should be increased in rigor."
                         Burnside offered to resign his command if the president wished.40 Lincoln replied promptly in a terse message:
                         "When I shall wish to supersede you I will let you know. All the
                         cabinet regretted the necessity of arresting, for instance, Vallandigham,
                         some perhaps, doubting, that there was a real necessity for it -- but, being
                         done, all were for seeing you through with it."14
                    That same morning, during this telegraphic exchange, the military commission
                         trial of Indiana State Senator Douglas had commenced. Before a tribunal of
                         army officers, Judge Advocate Goddard charged Douglas with violating
                         General Orders Number 38 by expressing sympathy for the rebels and
                         "declaring disloyal sentiments and opinions with the object and
                         purpose of weakening the power of the Government in its efforts to suppress
                         an unlawful Rebellion." Goddard listed the specifications of the
                         charge. He accused Douglas of uttering the following sentiments at the
                         Crestline rally: 
                              "I thank God that I have not, by word or act, assisted to
                                   sup- port the Administration in carrying on this unjust and
                                   unnecessary war"
                              "That the war was not carried on to restore the Government,
                                   as it was, but for abolition purposes"
                              "I advise you to arm yourselves and resist Military
                                   arrests; the sooner we resist such Military despotism the better;
                                   We have a right to resist Abe Lincoln's dirty Provost
                                   Marshals"
                              "Our once glorious Government is aiming to build up a des
                                  potism, and is gaining Military power as fast as possible for
                                   that purpose"
                         
                         
                              40Burnside to Lincoln, May 29, 1863, Abraham
                                   Lincoln Papers, Library of Congress; also in box 1, Letterbook
                                   number 2, folder 6, pp. 131-32, Burnside Collection.
                              41Lincoln to Burnside, May 29, 1863, in Roy
                                   P. Basler, ed., The Collected Works of Abraham
                                        Lincoln, 9 vols. (New Brunswick, N. J., 1953), 6:
                                   237.
                         
                         
                         
                              "The present Administration is endeavoring to bring the
                                   people under Military law, so as to deprive them of the right
                                   of suffrage"
                              "When next you go to the Ballot Box, carry your cartridge
                                   box with you"42
                          Milligan, on behalf of Douglas, initially declined to plead to the
                         charge and specifications. As Vallandigham had done in his own trial,
                         Milligan moved that the commission be discharged because it lacked
                         jurisdiction to try the matter. Douglas, he argued, was neither in the
                         military nor the naval service, and the court lacked the power to try
                         matters dealing with free speech. The commission, as it did in the
                         Vallandigham case, swept aside this jurisdictional argument. Milligan then
                         entered a "not guilty" plea.43
                    Captain Goddard called before the court a series of prosecution witnesses to
                         the speech Douglas gave at Crestline. All of them were among the pro-Union,
                         Republican onlookers at the rally. One by one, the witnesses testified that
                         they stood close to the speaker and heard clearly what Douglas said in his
                         speech. Edwin Booth, a Crestline physician, testified that Douglas stated
                         the war was "an abolition war" and was "unjust and
                         unnecessary." Douglas said that the recent local city elections at
                         Indianapolis "had been controlled by military authority," and
                         that Democrats should march, armed, "in solid phalanx" to the
                         ballot box to resist military despotism.44 The
                         speaker said military arrests like Vallandigham's were arbitrary and
                         "ought to be resisted." "If that is treason," he
                         testified Douglas to have stated, "here is 160 pounds of it."
                         George W. Pierce, a storekeeper in Crestline, also testified that the 
                              42All quotes from Alexander J. Douglas
                                   military commission case file verbatim transcript, LL- 449, box
                                   469, RG 153, Judge Advocate General Records, NARA, hereafter
                                   Douglas trial transcript.
                              43See Exhibit "A," Douglas trial
                                   transcript.
                              44Douglas may have seen reports in the
                                   previous day's newspapers that Indianapolis Democrats had
                                   withdrawn from city elections in protest. See Cincinnati Daily Gazette, May 6, 1863. Voter
                                   intimidation featured in many elections throughout American
                                   history, but was especially problematic during the Civil War.
                                   Northern Democrats feared army intimidation like that at polls in
                                   the border states of Kentucky and Missouri would occur in their
                                   communities. See Richard Franklin Bensel, The
                                        American Ballot Box in the Mid-Nineteenth Century (New York, 2004), 217-81; and Glenn C. Altschuler and Stuart M.
                                   Blumin, Rude Republic: Americans and Their Politics
                                        in the Nineteenth Century (Princeton, N. J., 2004),
                                   174-76
                         .  speaker had stated that the
                         Indianapolis election had been rigged by military authorities,
                         disallowing Democratic votes. Douglas had advised Democrats to carry
                         cartridge boxes to the polls. He also testified that Douglas said
                         "illegal, arbitrary arrests" should be resisted, "but if a
                         child came to him with proper authority, he could lead him away."
                         George Cochran, a Crestline sawyer, testified that Douglas "thanked
                         God that there were no widows and orphans who could blame him for this
                         war," and stated military authorities at Indianapolis had challenged
                         Democratic voters at the polls, and warned Ohio Democrats to go to the
                         ballot boxes in the fall gubernatorial election with their cartridge boxes
                         and resist military authorities if they were so challenged. Douglas had
                         spoken of military arrests like Vallandigham's as illegal and
                         unconstitutional, and had said they ought to be resisted. William Kerr, a
                         local farmer, (whom the Bucyrus Weekly Journal had
                         mentioned was threatened by the crowd at the rally) testified that
                         Douglas stated the war was to abolish slavery, and not to restore the
                         government; if the country was to be saved, the Democratic Party would have
                         to do it. Douglas had said that "Lincoln's mean, dirty, low-lived
                         Provost Marshals" had no right to arrest any citizen, but "if a
                         legal officer should send a summons after him, a boy of ten years old could
                         take him."45
                    Milligan cross-examined each prosecution witness and carefully tested each
                         man's recollection of the speech. Small weaknesses in the testimony
                         quickly emerged, most notably on the important issue of whether Douglas
                         spoke of resisting military arrests or "illegal arrests." Booth
                         admitted that he could not recollect "the very words used by the
                         prisoner." When questioned by Milligan as to whether Douglas actually
                         used the term "illegal arrests" rather than "military
                         arrests," the witness equivocated and replied that the speaker used
                         both. Milligan succeeded in getting Pierce to admit that he did not recall
                         that Douglas stated the government was trying to establish a despotic rule
                         and deprive the people of the right to vote. Some of the witnesses stood
                         firm in their testimony. Cochran could not be budged, and reiterated that
                         Douglas "advised them to resist military arrests. 'I advise you
                         to resist all military authorities, for they are illegal."'
                         Likewise, Kerr refused to agree to Milligan's suggestion that since he
                         could not recall if Douglas or another speaker alluded to the government
                         establishing a despotism, that other 
                              45Douglas trial transcript, 6-7, 11, 14, 17,
                                   18.
                         
                          utterances he had attributed to Douglas
                         might actually have come from other speakers. Milligan also attempted to
                         indict the activities of the Crestline Union League, the secret,
                         paramilitary Republican organization, and suggested that the Republican
                         witnesses may have attended the Democratic event to spy on their opponents
                         and report the tenor of the speeches to military authorities, a charge
                         prominent in the minds of Democrats at the time and reminiscent of the
                         Vallandigham case. In regard to the issue of military arrests of civilians,
                         he asked Booth: "Are you in the habit of attending Democratic meetings
                         and do you understand their position on this question?" This
                         question prompted an objection from the judge advocate and was overruled by
                         the tribunal. Booth denied being sent to report on the speeches at the
                              rally.46
                    Milligan called three witnesses to testify in defense of the prisoner and
                         pressed home the distinction between criticism of military arrests and
                         illegal arrests. All three witnesses were Democrats who had attended the
                         Crestline rally and stood close to the speaker during his speech. Led by
                         defense counsel, they all flatly contradicted the testimony of the
                         army's witnesses. C. Fulton, a Bucyrus physician, was the first
                         defense witness called, and he gave his testimony at the end of the first
                         day of the trial. He noted that Douglas "said nothing about resisting
                         military authority, but said he would resist arbitrary or illegal
                         arrests." He testified that Douglas advised Democrats to go to the
                         polls peaceably and "insist upon casting their votes," but if
                         "prevented by bayonets" Democrats should take their cartridge
                         boxes and return to the polls and "demand their right to vote."
                         Douglas had said, in reference to the recent Indianapolis election, that an
                         army major had told him that ballots should be examined, and those not
                         marked for Union candidates should be thrown out. Fulton denied that
                         Douglas spoke of the government establishing a despotism, but had said
                         "there was more effort made to crush free speech than to crush the
                         rebellion; and that the war was waged more for freeing the niggers and
                         crushing free speech than putting down the rebellion." This,
                         testified Fulton, was being done by Republican politicians, not by the
                         government. Cross-examination by Captain Goddard failed to blur the fine
                         distinction made between the Republican Lincoln administration and
                         "Republican politicians."47




                    
                         46Ibid., 7, 13, 16, 20, 9-10.
                         47Ibid., 21-22, 24.
                    


                    



                    The commission reconvened the next morning at ten o'clock, and Milligan
                         called his second witness. Samuel Hoyt, a telegraph operator at Crestline,
                         denied all the army's charges regarding the subjects and tone of
                         Douglas's speech. Hoyt denied that the speaker advised resisting mili
                         tary arrests, said provost marshals had no right to make arrests, or
                         claimed that the government was attempting to create a despotism. Rather,
                         the witness testified, at Milligan's subtle prompting, that Douglas
                         blamed "advisers of the Administration" for trying to establish
                         military rule and limit free expression of the people, and that "it
                         would end in a military despotism." According to Hoyt, nothing in the
                         speech was disrespectful of the government and the army. Asked about
                         Douglas's reference to cartridge boxes, Hoyt testified that Douglas
                         advised all to vote peaceably, but if soldiers deterred voters, to
                         "get their cartridge boxes and go to the polls and vote if it was
                         possible." Goddard's cross-examination failed to move the
                              witness.48
                    The third and last defense witness was William Becker, a local farmer. Becker
                         denied that Douglas spoke disrespectfully of the government, talked about
                         government despotism, or claimed that he would not be arrested by
                         Lincoln's provost marshals. Asked about cartridge boxes, the witness
                         recalled Douglas stating that in the coming fall Ohio election voters
                         should try to vote peaceably. "He said 'if we are driven away by
                         bayonets, then we would be justified in depositing our votes, even if we
                         had to take cartridge boxes [']; he hoped it would not come to
                         that." According to Becker, Douglas stated that he would submit to
                         arrest by an eight-year-old child, provided the child had proper legal
                         papers to support it. Goddard's cross-examination focused on
                         Becker's admission that he was "hard of hearing," and may
                         not have heard all that Douglas said. Becker replied: "I turned the
                         good ear towards him and it might be possible that some things were said
                         which I did not hear, but he spoke slow and loud and I paid
                              attention."49
                    Neither the defense nor prosecution called further witnesses. Milligan then
                         made a defense speech, a handwritten version of which was submitted to the
                              tribunal.50 A skilled and experienced attorney,
                         with many criminal defense cases under his belt, Milligan was nonetheless
                              
                              48Ibid., 27-28.
                              49Ibid., 30, 32.
                              50See Exhibit "B," Douglas Trial
                                   Transcript.
                         
                          faced with a novel challenge. Stirring
                         courtroom oratory and emotional appeals to a jury, often useful in civil
                         jury trials, had no place in military commission trials. Milligan had to
                         construct a defense argument based on the facts as established by the
                         testimony of witnesses and present it to a tribunal predisposed against his
                         defendant.
                    Milligan first argued, citing the infamous Sedition Act of 1798, that in
                         "actions for words" the "truth of the words" can be
                         admitted as evidence. He also submitted that the existence of rumor, or
                         the widespread belief or sentiment of a community, can be admitted. He then
                         suggested the fact, known by all in the room, that two political parties
                         existed, "one friendly to the Administration and the other
                         distrustful." When, he argued, all citizens adhere to the motto
                         "'eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,"' then the
                         distrustful part of the community will naturally keep a "zealous
                         watchfulness" over those in power. He argued that "any restraint
                         of that habit is calculated to chafe and irritate the people."
                         Restrictions on free speech which the "friends of the
                         Administration" may find easy and reasonable "might be cause of
                         greatest alarm" among the distrustful group.
                    Milligan conceded "for the sake of this argument" that the utter
                         ances charged to Douglas were directed at the Lincoln administration and
                         the army, and not Republican politicians seeking to control them. However,
                         he argued, the malice of the statements -- the essential point in the
                         army's charge -- was doubtful: The opinions
                              of honest men are not always matters of choice but are convictions
                              forced upon them by evidenciary [sic] circumstances...to conceal
                              those opinions is a restraint upon the freedom of thought to which
                              the American people are not yet habituated...and in this spirit was
                              the remark of the defendant made. "That the Administration were
                              doing more to suppress free speech than the rebellion["] or those
                              words ["] the present Administration is endeavoring to bring the
                              people under military law so as to deprive them of the right of
                              suffrage. ["] Douglas, argued Milligan, believed exactly
                         that, and "was unable to reconcile" the administration's
                         actions with an "intention...to restore the Government, or put down
                         the rebellion." Republicans had only weakened the North and
                         strengthened the South by their actions and speeches about treasonable
                         designs of the Democrats, Northern Democrats'  sympathy with the rebellion, and
                         Republicans' "irritating clamour" about slavery. Thus, the
                         defendant "justly" concluded that the administration was not
                         endeavoring to restore the Union and suppress the rebellion; Douglas
                         accordingly "thanked God that the widows and orphans could not look to
                         him and say he was the cause of the war."
                    Milligan next turned to the evidence of the witnesses and pronounced it
                         "by no means satisfactory." Every point raised by the army's
                         witnesses was countered by the defense witnesses' testimony, he
                         argued, and the tribunal should be cautious to credit it. The testimony of
                         Booth, the "principal witness" for the army's case, was
                         tainted by "feelings and bias" which made it unreliable. The
                         circumstances of the Crestline rally were next recalled. "Mr.
                         Vallandigham was the advertised Speaker," and the "news of his
                         arrest was fresh and exciting and it could not be expected that the
                         people would readily acquiesce in a proceeding so rare and to them full of
                         seeming danger." In such a context, that Douglas should utter
                         sentiments extemporaneously which to the commission "might seem out of
                         place is not to be wondered at." Milligan argued that nothing Douglas
                         said could be considered to express sympathy for the rebellion, to be
                         disloyal, to be an attempt to discourage enlistments, or to be an
                         incitement to resist the law. Regarding the specification that he uttered
                         the words, "Our once glorious Government is aiming to build up a des
                         potism," Milligan concluded with as much bombast as the venue allowed:
                              I know Mr. Douglas could not have uttered
                              such a sentiment. Because he recognizes no government as ours whose
                              powers are not founded on the Constitution of the United States the
                              principles of which are rendered more sacred and glorious by the
                              perils to which its votaries are daily exposed.


                    The commission withdrew to deliberate. How long those deliberations lasted
                         and their nature is not recorded in the trial transcript. The commission
                         returned and found Douglas guilty of two of the specifications: 
                              "I thank God that I have not, by word, or act, assisted to
                                   support the administration"
                              "When next you go to the ballot-box carry your cartridge
                                   box with you"
                         
                          The commission found him not guilty of
                         uttering the following: 
                              "in carrying on this unjust and unnecessary
                                   war"
                              "That the war was not carried on to restore the Government
                                   as it was, but for Abolition purposes"
                              "I advise you to arm yourselves and resist military arrests [italics original], the sooner we
                                   resist such military despotism the better; we have a right to
                                   resist Abe Lincoln's dirty Provost Marshals"
                              "Our once glorious Government is aiming to build up a
                                   despotism, and is gaining military power as fast as possible to
                                   bring the people under military law, so as to deprive them of the
                                   right of suffrage"51
                         


                    Milligan had succeeded in drawing the distinction between criticism of
                         military arrests -- Burnside's favored means to quell resistance --
                         and speech decrying mere "illegal arrests." But Douglas had been
                         found guilty of uttering words considered an incitement to violent
                         resistance to authority. The commission judged Douglas to have spoken
                         inflammatory language -- his call to carry arms to the polls -- in clear
                         violation of General Orders Number 38. Douglas's violent language,
                         according to the judges, had been stronger than Vallandigham's, which
                         had criticized Burnside's order and had merely encouraged voters to
                         expel the tyrant "King Lincoln."52 Although
                         the officers on the commission found Douglas guilty of a serious violation
                         of Burnside's order, they returned a verdict of "not guilty"
                         to the overall charge and dismissed the case. With the weight of
                         Lincoln's displeasure pressing on Burnside, it is likely that the
                         general instructed the tribunal to reach the "not guilty"
                         verdict.
                    Even more surprising than its verdict, with the end of the Douglas trial the
                         military commission adjourned sine die, never to
                         reconvene. The tribunal empanelled to try cases of violations of General
                         Orders Number 38, which had famously convicted Vallandigham, was no more.
                         Though Cincinnati's military prisons contained scores of prisoners
                              
                              51Douglas trial transcript, 32-33.
                              52Klement, The Limits of
                                        Dissent, 154; The Trial of Hon. Clement L. Vallandigham, by
                                        a Military Commission: and the Proceedings Under His
                                        Application for a Writ of Habeas Corpus in the Circuit Court
                                        of the United States in the Southern District of Ohio
                                   (Cincinnati, Ohio, 1863), 11-12; and OR, series
                                   2, vol. 5, 634-35.
                         
                          arrested under the order and awaiting
                         trial, the commission was finished. Lincoln's disapproval, prompted
                         by Morton's intervention, had forced Burnside to dismantle part of his
                         apparatus to control disloyalty. The general reviewed the findings of the
                         commission and ordered Douglas to be released from Kemper Barracks prison.
                         Douglas went free on June 3. The Cincinnati newspapers reported the finding
                         of the commission and the prisoner's release.53
                    On June 5 Douglas returned to Columbia City on the afternoon train and was
                         met at the depot by a crowd of one thousand well-wishers and a town band.
                         After a triumphant procession to the county courthouse "amidst the
                         firing of cannons and the shoutings of freemen," Douglas described his
                         arrest, imprisonment, and trial in dramatic terms, highlighting the cruelty
                         of his military captors. He tore into the Republicans and blamed Union
                         League treachery for his arrest. The assembly passed resolutions condemning
                         the arrests of Douglas and Engelbert Zimmerman, the editor of the
                         Democratic Columbia City News, whom General Hascall had
                         arrested and whose newspaper he suppressed for a short period in May. The
                         Democratic women present passed resolutions in praise of the two local
                         martyrs for free speech. In the days and weeks to come, Douglas spoke at
                         Democratic rallies in Whitley, Huntington, and Noble Counties, describing
                         his arrest, imprisonment, and trial, and excoriating the Lincoln
                         administration. The partisan crowds received and recognized him as a
                              hero.54
                    Douglas's run-ins with military authority did not end there. His new
                         status as a Democratic party hero and leader meant that he was recognized
                         by Republicans as one of the "Copperhead ringleaders" in the
                         region. In early July, newspapers reported that a "mob" in
                         Whitley County had rescued deserters who had been arrested by the county
                         provost marshal. The provost thereupon arrested several persons and sent
                         them to Indianapolis to appear in federal court. Douglas, while not one of
                         the "mob," was blamed for it. Several days later Capt. Hiram
                         Iddings, provost marshal for the 10th Congressional District, rode into
                              
                              53Douglas trial transcript, 34; Burnside to
                                   commanding officer of military prison, June 2, 1863, RG 109,
                                   M345, roll 20, NARA; Cincinnati Daily
                                        Commercial, June 3 and 4, 1863; Cincinnati
                                        Daily Gazette, June 3, 1863. The (Columbus) Daily Ohio State Journal of June 2, 1863,
                                   reported that Douglas was released from prison on May
                                   30.
                              54Columbia City News,June
                                   9 and 16, 1863; Huntington Democrat, June
                                   11,July 23, 1863. See also Towne, "Killing the Serpent
                                   Speedily," 52.
                         
                          Columbia City at the head of two
                         hundred troops -- a detachment of the Invalids Corps and four Indiana
                         Legion militia companies -- intent on arresting deserters and more members
                         of the "mob" who had aided them. After arresting several
                         deserters, the troops assembled in the town before leaving for Kendallville
                         and raised cheers for President Lincoln and Generals Meade and Grant. A man
                         in the crowd of onlookers cried out "Three cheers for
                         Vallandigham!" and ran. Several people in the crowd took up the cheer.
                         Soldiers angrily gave chase in the direction of the original voice. In the
                         ensuing melee, Douglas, standing in the crowd, panicked and "also
                         broke and ran" in the same direction. Confusing Douglas for the man
                         who yelled for Vallandigham, the soldiers seized him and forced him into
                         one of their wagons. Douglas's brother-in-law Eli W. Brown (Democratic
                         county surveyor at the time) of Columbia City tried to interpose, but one
                         of the soldiers shot at him four times, fortunately merely grazing him. The
                         troops also seized Brown and hoisted him into the wagon. Both were
                         threatened with death should they resist. The soldiers soon released both
                         men when it became clear that Douglas had not cheered for Vallandigham. The
                         troops arrested the cheerer and hauled him away to Kendallville.55
                    A study of the events surrounding Alexander J. Douglas's arrest, trial,
                         and release reveals several important issues. First, the episode highlights
                         the impact the arrest of a political figure of merely local standing had
                         on national policy. Historians who focus only on the arrests of national
                         political figures like Clement Vallandigham during the Civil War overlook
                         events of great significance. Democrats reacted to the news of the arrest
                         of their local political leaders -- their neighbors, people they knew or
                         had met -- not just to the news of national figures whom they knew only in
                         the abstract. Douglas was a significant political figure in his corner of
                         Indiana, and became temporarily so in a place where he merely visited. Ohio
                         military officers deemed him "of sufficient importance" to
                         arrest him for violating a ban on anti-administra- 
                              55Columbia City News, July
                                   21, 1863; Marshall County Republican, July 30,
                                   1863, quoting the Columbia City Republican. The
                                   Republican newspaper reported that soldiers found Douglas hiding
                                   in bushes, and characterized him as a "poor pusillanimous
                                   coward." This was probably the editor's payback for
                                   Douglas calling him a "pusillanimous coward and a liar"
                                   at his return celebration; see the Logansport
                                        Journal of August 1, 1863, quoting the Noble County Journal. The Democratic newspaper in
                                   Columbia City later noted that the person who shot at Brown was
                                   Joseph Latta, a deputy provost marshal. Latta was shot dead in
                                   August in DeKalb County while attempting to arrest a deserter.
                                   See Columbia City News, August 25, 1863.
                         
                          tion speech. The Democrats of the Ohio
                         town where he visited and gave a speech threatened serious violence as a
                         result of his arrest. A show of military force was deemed necessary to
                         quell unrest there. On his return to his Indiana home, Democrats turned out
                         en masse to welcome him, show solidarity with their party, and demonstrate
                         defiance of Republican and military authority. Douglas's arrest and
                         subsequent release energized the Democrats in his corner of Indiana exactly
                         as Morton had dreaded, an event replicated in almost every locale where
                         similar military heavy-handedness occurred. More importantly, the
                         repercussions of the arrest of this relatively minor political figure took
                         place on the state and national levels. Burnside's arrest of Douglas,
                         coupled with military arrests of newspaper editors, prompted Indiana's
                         governor to intervene with the president and his cabinet. This entire
                         sequence of events suggests that historians should burrow more deeply in
                         the archives to understand better the ramifications of purportedly
                         insignificant and merely incidental arrests.
                    Knowledge of the Douglas arrest and trial also overturns our understanding of
                         the end of Burnside's intervention into political affairs in the
                         District of the Ohio to override civil government. Governor Morton's
                         lobbying in Washington had forced a president-who had not paid sufficient
                         attention to political affairs in the Midwest or to the actions of his
                         military commander there -- to rein in Burnside. Though the general wanted
                         to impose even more rigorous measures to silence criticism of the
                         administration, he had no choice but to disband the military tribunal. In
                         an attempt to retain as much of his get-tough policy as possible, Burnside
                         held onto General Orders Number 38, but he no longer enforced it with
                         arrests such as those of Vallandigham or Douglas, and no more military
                         commission trials for violations of the order occurred. It is notable that
                         when Burnside ordered the suppression of the Chicago
                              Times on June 1, shutting down the region's most important
                         anti-administration Democratic newspaper, he arrested neither its editor,
                         Wilbur E Storey, nor any of its staff.56


                    
                         56The best study of the suppression of the Chicago Times remains Craig D. Tenney, "To
                              Suppress or Not to Suppress: Abraham Lincoln and the Chicago Times," Civil War History,
                              27 (September 1981), 248-59. Burnside reaffirmed General Orders Number
                              38 on June 2 with General Orders Number 87. See OR, series 1, vol. 23,
                              pt. 2, 382. See also Justin E. Walsh, To Print the News
                                   and Raise Hell: A Biography of Wilbur F. Storey (Chapel Hill, N.C., 1968). For a study of the suppression of the Democratic
                              press in Indiana during the war, see Stephen E. Towne, "Works of
                              Indiscretion: Violence Against the Democratic Press in Indiana during
                              the Civil War," Journalism History, 31 (Fall
                              2005), 138-49.
                    



                    




                    Second, it is critically important to reassess the dynamics between the
                         Northern state governments and the federal government during the Civil War.
                         The understanding of the relationship between the Northern governors and
                         President Lincoln has been dominated by William Hesseltine's
                         characterization of the state governors as weak, ineffectual, and dangerous
                         to the Union's survival. In his effort to promote Lincoln as the
                         nation's preserver, Hesseltine denigrated the governors. Morton,
                         though perhaps the most effective of the Northern governors during the
                         rebellion, received special derision at the historian's hands.
                         Hesseltine's thesis has had widespread and lasting influence on
                         generations of historians, who have seldom examined the complex
                         interrelationships between state and federal governments.57 The Douglas arrest episode, along with Morton's
                         simultaneous effort to stop Hascall's policy of stifling Democratic
                         newspaper speech in Indiana, should prompt a reassessment. Through this
                         episode we see a president -- preoccupied with the war effort in the East
                         and the failures of the Army of the Potomac -- passively inattentive to the
                         deterioration of political conditions in the Midwestern states. Assigning
                         Burnside to the Department of the Ohio shows that Lincoln neither
                         understood the conditions on the ground nor had a plan to quell resistance
                         in the region. Lincoln, carried along by the tide of events, failed to
                         oversee his general in a region where disaffection and resistance to the
                         federal government were becoming increasingly dangerous. Morton played a
                         leading role in national affairs -- his pressure on Lincoln and the cabinet
                         ended military trials of civilians under General Orders Number 38, one of
                         the most egregious instances of military interference in domestic political
                         affairs in United States history.58




                    
                         57William B. Hesseltine, Lincoln and
                                   the War Governors (New York, 1948). For a recent assess
                              ment of the relationship between the president and the Northern
                              governors during the Civil War that challenges Hesseltine's
                              assumptions, see Stephen D. Engle, All the
                                   President's Statesmen: Northern Governors and the American
                                   Civil War (Milwaukee, Wis., 2006).
                         58Recent efforts by President George W. Bush to
                              employ military commissions in the so-called "War on Terror"
                              have prompted historians and legal scholars to reexamine the use of
                              military commissions during the Civil War. An extensive literature has
                              emerged, examples of which are Paul Finkelman, "Limiting Rights
                              in Times of Crisis: Our Civil War Experience-A History Lesson for a
                              Post 9-11 America," Cardozo Public Law, Policy and
                                   Ethics Journal, 2 (December 2003), 25-48; Michal R. Belknap,
                              "A Putrid Pedigree: The Bush Administration's Military
                              Tribunals in Historical Perspective," California
                                   Western Law Review, 38 (Spring 2002), 434-80; Belknap,
                              "Alarm Bells from the Past: The Troubling History of American
                              Military Commissions," Journal of Supreme Court
                                   History, 28, no. 3 (2003), 300-322; Frank J.
                    


                    






                    Morton's influence in 
                         Washington
                     can be gauged by Burnside's
                         increasing hostility to him. The general blamed the governor for halting
                         his policy of rigorous military intervention in political matters. Since
                         Burnside had taken command of the Department of the Ohio in March, Morton
                         had fought him in multiple disputes over personnel issues, troop levels in
                         Indiana, and military expeditions to quell disturbances in the state. The
                         governor, according to the general, meddled with strictly military matters.
                         While Burnside had succeeded in keeping the governor from dictating to him
                         on military administration, the governor won the upper hand when the
                         general tried to impose military solutions on political problems.
                         Morton's success in removing Hascall and ending military commission
                         trials so angered one of Burnside's staff officers that he turned the
                         governor's portrait hanging in army headquarters upside down. Burnside
                         continued to believe that civil authorities possessed neither the power
                         nor the will to put down resistance to the draft enrollments in Indiana.
                         "The civil law is too slow," he complained privately. Neighboring
                         governors acceded to Burnside's requests to declare martial law in
                         their states, but Morton resisted military authority and prevailed.
                         Burnside's claim to be "Governor over five" states failed to
                         take the Indiana governor into account.59
                    Finally, Milligan's defense of Douglas before the military commission
                         was perhaps the high point of his political career, and proved to be his
                         most powerful effort against the Lincoln administration. Democratic 
                              Williams, "Abraham Lincoln and Civil Liberty: Then and
                                   Now-The Southern Rebellion and September 11," New York University Annual Survey of American Law, 60
                                   (2004), 463-89; Joseph R. Thysell, Jr., "Ex
                                        Parte Milligan: Lincolns Use of Military
                                   Commissions," White House Studies, 5, no.
                                   3 (2005), 443-55.
                              59Burnside to Jonathan Sturgis, June 7,
                                   1863, box 8, Burnside Papers, RG 94, NARA. Burnside continued to
                                   try to use military power to suppress dissent in Indiana during a
                                   period of widespread resistance to the draft enrollment,
                                   writing to Secretary Stanton: "Notwithstanding the
                                   representations made to you that the exercise of military
                                   authority by me was unnecessary, I am more than ever satisfied
                                   that it is out of the power of the civil authorities to maintain
                                   the peace by prompt arrests and punishment. Can I have the
                                   authority to declare martial law at such time as I shall think
                                   necessary?" Burnside to Stanton, June 16, 1863, box 1,
                                   Letterbook number 2, Burnside Collection. Morton also rejected
                                   Burnside's attempt to declare martial law in Indiana during
                                   the Morgan Raid, and sent Burnside's request to Secretary of
                                   War Stanton. Morton to Stanton, July 11, 1863, in Governor Oliver
                                   P. Morton Telegraph Book number 16, 262, 264, Indiana State
                                   Archives, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indianapolis,
                                   Indiana; Daniel Lamed to Henry Lamed, July 12, 1863, Lamed
                                   Papers. Both Governor Tod of Ohio and Governor Richard Yates of
                                   Illinois agreed to the imposition of martial law during the
                                   Morgan Raid in July 1863. See OR, series 1,
                                   vol. 23, pt. 1, 701, 729, and 745.
                         
                          newspapers published and praised his
                         closing speech, and his successful defense of the party's principles
                         burnished his reputation among antiwar Democrats in northern Indiana. Where
                         he once was an also-ran politician, he now was a popular party hero and
                         sought-after speaker. The Huntington attorney took an increasingly visible
                         role in anti-war Democratic politics in his home county and all over
                         northern Indiana. However, shortly after his military commission success,
                         Milligan turned from legal means and embraced extra-legal violence as a
                         method for political change. Emboldened by his new popularity, later in
                         1863 he joined the secret society known as the Organization of American
                         Knights, previously known as the Knights of the Golden Circle. The
                         organization changed its name in early 1864 to the Sons of Liberty.
                         Thousands of members all over Indiana and neighboring states organized to
                         protect deserters and to oppose the draft by force. The group secretly
                         perfected plans to raise rebellion in the region, seize federal arsenals,
                         release and arm rebel prisoners of war, and seize power as a diversionary
                         measure to aid the Confederate cause. Milligan became the Sons of
                         Liberty's military leader for the northeastern quarter of Indiana. He
                         viewed his popularity and influence sufficient to make a bid for governor
                         based on the strength of the antiwar wing of the Democratic Party, but the
                         party rejected his nomination at the state convention. That summer the
                         Sons of Liberty planned an uprising in Indiana. Tipped off to the plans,
                         troops raided fellow leader Harrison H. Dodd's Indianapolis printing
                         warehouse and discovered boxes full of guns and ammunition, as well as
                         organizational records. In early October, a company of troops surrounded
                         Milligan's Huntington house and arrested him for his role as a leader
                         of the secret plot to seize arms and free rebel prisoners. He stood trial
                         by military commission in Indianapolis for treason. It is a significant
                         irony that Governor Morton, who a year before was an adamant opponent of
                         the use of military commissions for trials of civilians, was now a leading
                         force behind their use to batter his Democratic opponents in the election
                         year of 1864. The military commission found Milligan guilty and sentenced
                         him to death, but his sentence was commuted to life in prison, and in 1866,
                         President Andrew Johnson pardoned him. While Milligan was imprisoned, a
                         suit made its way to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled in 1866 that
                         military trials of civilians shall not occur where martial law is not in
                         place and the civil courts are open. Ex parte Milligan is
                         today generally viewed as a landmark ruling defin-  ing the roles and limitations of military
                         government and constitutional protections of the citizen.60
                    Alexander Douglas's political career wound down after he served out the
                         remainder of his term in the state Senate. He practiced law in Columbia City and continued to serve as a school examiner for Whitley County. He
                         gradually retreated from public affairs and increasingly turned to filling
                         Lutheran church pulpits in Indiana, Ohio, and Kentucky. By the time his
                         son, well-known pastor and best-selling novelist Lloyd C. Douglas (born
                         in 1877), was old enough to be cognizant of his "papa," the elder
                         man was living a quiet, bucolic existence as a country parson. If the
                         writer was ever aware of his father's arrest and imprisonment for
                         treasonous speech during the Civil War, his gentle and loving portrait of
                         his father failed to disclose it. He wrote of his father, "How dearly
                         did this kindhearted old man love peace!"61










                    
                         60See Samuel Klaus, ed., The
                                   Milligan Case: Ex Parte: In the Matter of Lambdin P Milligan
                              (New York, 1929); Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Milligan Case and the
                              Election of 1864 in Indiana," Mississippi Valley
                                   Historical Review, 31 (June 1944), 41-58; Frank L. Klement,
                              "The Indianapolis Treason Trials and Ex Parte
                                   Milligan," in Michal R. Belknap, ed., American Political Trials (Westport, Conn., 1981), 101-127.
                              In his many writings on the Sons of Liberty and the Indianapolis
                              treason trial, Klement argued consistently that Milligan was never a
                              leader -- let alone a member -- of the organization. See, for example,
                              Klement, "The Indianapolis Treason Trials," 112ff, and Dark Lanterns, 109. However, during the trial,
                              Milligan's attorney, John R. Coffroth, admitted that his client
                              was a member of the secret organization: "We claim the right to
                              show that the purpose Mr. Milligan had in view in going into the order
                              was to control and direct it so that it should do no mischief."
                              See Klaus, ed., The Milligan Case, 404. Coffroth
                              dropped that line of defense later in the trial. Biographical
                              information on Milligan is scant. For limited information on him, see
                              Florence L. Grayston, "Lambdin P. Milligan -- a Knight of the Golden
                              Circle," Indiana Magazine of History, 43
                              (December 1947), 379-91; and Darwin Kelley, "Lambdin P
                              Milligan's Appeal for State's Rights and Constitutional
                              Liberty during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 66 (September 1970), 263-83. See also G. R.
                              Tredway, Democratic Opposition to the Lincoln
                                   Administration in Indiana, Indiana Historical Collections,
                              vol. 48 (Indianapolis, 1973), 155-59.
                         61Douglas, Time to Remember,
                              124.
                    

               


               

               












                    Uneasy Alliances

                    Hull House, the Garment Workers Strikes, and the Jews of Chicago

                    SUSAN ROTH BREITZER







                    Hull House, for over a century regarded as a venerable Chicago institution,
                         has more recently come under a growing amount of critical scrutiny, as has
                         its often-lionized founder, Jane Addams. Hull House's relationship
                         with Chicago's Jewish community has become a source of particular
                         interest, especially in its comparison with Addams's relations to
                         other local immigrant communities. One scholar has argued that while Hull
                         House's cooperation with the Jewish labor movement is justly famous,
                         it "should be seen more in the context of Hull House's indus
                         trial relations policies than as an expression of its relations with the
                         Jewish community as such."1 Yet given that most of
                         the clothing manu- 
                              Susan Roth Breitzer completed her Ph.D. from the University of
                                   Iowa in 2007 and is currently revising her dissertation,
                                   "Jewish Labor's Second City: The Formation of a Jewish
                                   Working Class in Chicago, 1886-1928," toward publication.
                                   She would like to thank David Zonderman, Karen Pastorello, and
                                   the anonymous reviewer for their comments and suggestions, and
                                   the Chicago Historical Society for the Student Research Award
                                   that provided partial support for researching and writing this
                                   article. She would also like to thank Susan Boone, Reference
                                   Archivist of the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College, for
                                   permission to quote material from the Ellen Gates Starr Papers,
                                   and Patrizia Sione, Reference Archivist of the Kheel Center for
                                   Labor-Management Documentation at Cornell University, for
                                   permission to quote material from the Amalgamated Clothing
                                   Workers of America Papers.
                              1Rivka Shpak Lissak, Pluralism
                                        and Progressives: Hull House and the New Immigrants, 1890-
                                        1919 (Chicago, 1989), 80.
                         
                          facturers against whom the
                         predominantly Eastern European Jewish workers took to the streets were
                         German Jews, ethnic issues never lay far below the surface of labor
                         tensions in the garment industry. Given, as well, the more general
                         divisions -- of class, language, and culture -- that separated these
                         elements of Chicago's Jewish community, Hull House residents could
                         have done nothing other than relate to each group differently.
                    The purpose of this essay, therefore, is to examine the role of two key labor
                         actions on the part of Chicago's Eastern European Jewish working class
                         during the early decades of the twentieth century -- the 1910 and 1915
                         men's garment workers strikes -- on bringing about a shift in the
                         alliances between Hull House and Chicago
                         's two Jewish communities,
                         both of which had played significant roles in making the city an important
                         center of the American garment industry during this period.
                    A little background history is in order. While Jewish peddlers and fur
                         traders had passed through the area that became Chicago well before its
                         incorporation, the first Jewish resident in Chicago was Morris Baumgarten,
                         who was believed to have arrived in 1832, with the peddler J. Gottleib
                         following two years later. Other Jewish settlers, almost entirely of
                         German extraction (save for a small Polish minority) followed.2 Although the majority arrived as poor as their
                         non-Jewish counterparts, they had the significant advantages of literacy
                         and of occupation, the latter usually as middlemen and peddlers.
                         Moreover, they were comfortable around Gentiles to a degree that would
                         have been unthinkable to their Eastern European immigrant counterparts.3 Most German Jews in nineteenth-century America
                         became part of the merchant class, and a few transformed small businesses
                         into highly profitable and widely known corporations, usually in dry goods
                         or the clothing industry, including Chicago's phenomenally successful
                         men's clothing manufacturers: Hart, Schaffner, and Marx; Alfred
                         Decker and Cohn; and Kuppenheimer and Company.4 The
                         vast majority of German Jewish immigrants, however, were less likely to
                         have achieved elite status than 
                              2Morris Gutstein, A Priceless
                                   Heritage: The Epic Growth of Nineteenth-Century Chicago
                                   Jewry (New York, 1953), 21-25.
                              3Arthur Hertzberg, The Jews in
                                        America: Four Centuries of an Uneasy Encounter: A
                                        History (New York, 1989), 168-70.
                              4Hyman L. Meites, ed., The
                                   History of the Jews of Chicago ([Chicago], 1924),
                                   434-35.
                         
                          simply a comfortable middle-class
                         existence, one that would take significantly longer to achieve for most
                         of their Eastern European coreligionists who arrived en masse decades
                              later.5
                    Unlike the German "Second Wave" of Jewish immigrants who gravitated
                         to small towns as well as major cities, the "Third Wave" by and
                         large favored the larger cities, such as Chicago. More significantly, the
                         vast majority of this new group of Jewish immigrants arrived with little
                         education or worldly wealth, and seemed comparatively inassimilable to
                         Protestant America and to their coreligionists alike. While this group
                         included a smattering of small-time merchants, such as rag dealers and
                         craftsmen of various kinds, the vast majority were involved in clothes
                              making.6 The trade of clothes making held several
                         advantages for Jewish immigrants to America, ranging from its established
                         acceptability as an occupation to the consideration that, as Howard M.
                         Sachar put it, "for their ill-nourished and undersized physiques...it
                         was assuredly a preferable alternative to employment in the mines and
                         factories of heavy industry."7
                    When the Chicago Fire struck, Jews from all sectors of the community
                         suffered, with five hundred Jewish families left homeless and five of the
                         seven synagogues in Chicago destroyed, to say nothing of the loss of
                         lodges, businesses, and institutions. As a result of the fire, however,
                         given limited resources and inordinately great need, major tensions arose
                         for the first time regarding how much the by-then established German Jewish
                         community should assist the more recent arrivals from Russia and Eastern
                         Europe, and in what ways.8 The German Jewish attitude
                         is illustrated in an 1882 report on aid-giving in The
                              Occident, a popular American Jewish periodical, which referred to
                         the newcomers as "the incoming slaves...of which nearly five hundred
                         are booked for this city" and complained "The Russo-Israelite is
                         a stubborn fellow, and will give any but the right answers," adding
                         that "having been constantly under [the] surveillance of a despotic
                         government; the neighbor of a 
                              5Hertzberg, Jews in
                                        America, 118, 136-38.
                              6Wilfred Carsel, A History of
                                   the Chicago Ladies' Garment Workers' Union
                                   (Chicago, 1940); Abraham Menes, "The East Side and the
                                   Jewish Labor Movement," in Voices from the
                                        Yiddish: Essays, Memoirs, Diaries, ed. Irving Howe and
                                   Eliezer Greenberg (New York, 1975), 213.
                              7Howard M. Sachar, A History of
                                   the Jews in America (New York, 1992), 145.
                              8Irving Cutler, The Jews of
                                   Chicago: From Shtetl to Suburb (Urbana, Ill., 1976),
                                   28-31.
                         
                          fanatical and bigoted rabble; he
                         becomes stolid and passive, and therefore, unwilling to convey the right
                              answer."9 The bigotry and probing attitude of
                         Americanized German Jewish aid workers, combined with language problems,
                         probably did little to encourage new Jewish arrivals to Chicago to open up
                         to benefactors whom they regarded with equal suspicion. The aid societies
                         may have lacked cultural sensitivity, but they were thorough in trying to
                         assimilate the new arrivals into American society in the ways they deemed
                         best, as well as following the well-established immigrant Jewish tradition
                         of never allowing one's own to become a public charge.10 Over time, the benefactor-beneficiary relationship between
                         the two communities, which from the beginning were visibly divided by class
                         as well as ethnicity, would become inextricably tied to the
                         employer-employee relationship.
                    Differences were immediately manifested in the locations where each community
                         resided, reflecting the class and ethnic segregation by neighborhood that
                         was pervasive throughout Chicago. In the era following the Great Fire,
                         the German Jewish community increasingly settled into the "Golden
                         Ghetto" of Chicago's South Side. The Eastern European Jewish
                         community made its first home on the West Side in what became
                         Chicago's own distinct Jewish ghetto. Maxwell Street, which today is
                         lost to neglect and the destructive side of urban renewal, has been fondly
                         remembered as the heart of Chicago's Eastern European Jewish
                              ghetto.11 For all the communal advantages it
                         provided, life in Maxwell Street was rarely easy. Housing was crowded and
                         frequently substandard, and the surrounding prairie did not prevent
                         builders from crowding buildings together or constructing living spaces
                         with inadequate (and in some cases nonexistent) outside lighting,
                         ventilation, or plumbing.12





                    
                         9"Slave Cunning," The
                                   Occident, August 4, 1882, Chicago Foreign Language Press
                              Survey, Harold Washington Library Center, Chicago (hereafter
                              CFLPS).
                         10Hertzberg, Jews in America,
                              141-42, 177-78, 182-83.
                         11Ira Berkow, Maxwell Street:
                              Survival in a Bazaar (Garden City, N.Y., 1977), 4-6; Irving
                              Cutler, "The Jews of Chicago: From Shtetl to Suburb," in Ethnic Chicago, eds. Peter d'Alroy Jones and
                              Melvin G. Holli (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1981), 44-58; Shuli Eshel and
                              Roger Schatz, Jewish Maxwell Street Stories, Voices
                              of America Series (Charleston, S.C., 2004), 7-11 and passim; Gutstein,
                                   A Priceless Heritage, 39-40.
                         12Edith Abbott, The Tenements of
                              Chicago: 1908-1935 (Chicago, 1936), 170-71; Robert Hunter,
                              Tenement Conditions in Chicago: Report by the
                                   Investigating Committee of the City Homes Association
                              (Chicago, 1901), 21-50.
                    


                    


                    

                         LABOR ISSUES WITHIN CHICAGO'S JEWISH COMMUNITY

                         These unhealthy dwellings served not only as living spaces for large
                              numbers of immigrants, but also frequently as workspaces for a number
                              of Chicago's industries, most infamously the clothing industry.
                              And as Chicago's clothing industry grew from the 1860s onward,
                              the number of sweatshops increased exponentially. Early efforts to
                              organize the garment trades unions met with limited success. The
                              structure of the industry, which centered on putting out piecework to
                              a frequently untraceable warren of sweatshops, was only the beginning
                              of the fledgling garment trades movement's difficulties, that
                              also included the ethnic diversity of the workforce and
                              employers' willingness to exploit inter-group prejudices.13 Although these sweatshop conditions at first
                              applied fairly equally to all sectors of the clothing industries,
                              notable advances were to take place within the men's clothing
                              trades. By the 1890s, there was an increased demand for "quality
                              tailoring," which facilitated the increased move of men's
                              clothing manufacturing to the factories, or "inside
                                   shops."14 Even among "inside shops,
                              however," some clothing firms emerged as "better than,"
                              and the one regarded as the best by any measure was Hart, Schaffner,
                              and Marx, which by 1905 had bought out the sweatshops to which it had
                              been contracting out businesses, unprecedentedly moving all operations
                              under its supervision.15
                         Despite its much-lauded reputation for progressiveness, HSM made no
                              pretense of workplace democracy. Foremen (and "foreladies"
                              for that matter) could be arbitrary and abusive, and the purpose of
                              day-to-day management was, for all accounts, to keep worker earnings
                              as low as possible. As Rebecca August, who began working at HSM around
                              1905 recalled, "the Head man used to see to it that workers
                              didn't make too much money," adding "when he thot [sic]
                              the fastest worker made $20 or more, all the others had to have their
                              price cut." What made working at HSM more bearable, and even
                              comparatively desirable, was that it was otherwise vastly superior in
                              terms of wages, hours, and work- 
                                   13Carsel, A History of the
                                        Chicago Ladies' Garment Workers' Union,
                                        4-6, 8.
                                   14Barbara Warne Newell, Chicago and the Labor Movement: Metropolitan Unionism
                                        in the 1930's (Urbana, Ill., 1961),
                                        58.
                                   15Joseph Schaffner
                                             1848-1918: Recollections and Impressions of His
                                             Associates (Chicago, 1920), 39-54; Steven Fraser,
                                             Labor Will Rule: Sidney Hillman and the
                                                  Rise of American Labor (Ithaca, N.Y., 1993),
                                        29-30.
                              
                               ing conditions, especially at a
                              time when most clothing houses were going in the opposite direction,
                              moving work to "outside" shops at the same time that
                              immigrants were increasingly replacing native-born workers in the
                              workforce. Although German Jewish business owners were apparently
                              responsive to the prophetic call of Reform Judaism and Ethical Culture
                              before 1910, this translated mainly into charitable giving on behalf
                              of the Eastern European Jewish workers who could not support their
                              families on what they were paid. Also, rather than looking critically
                              at themselves, most chose to feel comfortably superior to the Eastern
                              European Jewish sweatshop bosses, many of whom were genuinely more
                              exploitative in how they treated those below them.16
                    
                    
                         PROGRESSIVISM AND THE INFLUENCE OF HULL HOUSE

                         These conditions would make questions concerning work, poverty, and
                              charity more urgent for Chicago's Jewish community, and this
                              urgency only increased with the onset of the economic downturn that
                              became known as the Panic of 1893. It came hard on the heels of the
                              World's Columbian Exposition, a time when Chicago was showing its
                              best face to the world. The Panic hit Chicago hard, leaving massive
                              unemployment, with twenty percent of the workforce laid off during the
                              winter of 1892-93 alone, and more than ten percent of the city's
                              population threatened with starvation. The 1893 Panic also triggered
                              a new upsurge of labor unrest that reached another peak with the
                              Pullman Strike of 1894, an event magnified by the willingness of the
                              press to stir up public fears of a life-and-death struggle between
                              labor and capital, making its eventual defeat another serious trial
                              for the Chicago labor movement.17 One important
                              result was the creation of the new move- 
                                   16Rebecca August, "My
                                        Autobiography," September 1955, American Jewish
                                        Autobiographies #266, YIVO Archives, YIVO Institute for
                                        Jewish Research, New York; Carsel, A History of
                                             the Chicago Ladies' Garment Workers'
                                             Union, 4-6; Fraser, Labor Will
                                             Rule, 25-26, 37; Florence Kelley, "The
                                        Sweating-System," in The Residents of Hull-House, Hull-House Maps and Papers: A Presentation of
                                             Nationalities and Wages in a Congested District of
                                             Chicago, Together with Comments and Essays on Problems
                                             Growing Out of the Social Conditions (1895;
                                        Urbana, Ill., 2007), 69-70.
                                   17Almont Lindsey, The
                                             Pullman Strike: The Story of a Unique Experiment and of
                                             a Great Labor Upheaval (Chicago, 1942), 147;
                                        Donald L. Miller, City of the Century: The Epic
                                             of Chicago and the Making of America (New York,
                                        1996), 534-35; and Carl Smith, Urban Disorder
                                             and the Shape of Belief: The Great Chicago Fire, the
                                             Haymarket Bomb, and the Model Town of Pullman
                                        (Chicago, 1995), 233-36.
                              
                               ment that became known as
                              Progressivism. Although the Progressive movement was decidedly middle
                              to upper-middle class in both origins and focuses, it differed from
                              previous reform movements in its ability to form and maintain at least
                              "on-again, off-again" alliances with labor and the working
                              class, including the Jewish working class.18 And
                              Hull House, usually regarded as the grandmother of social settlements,
                              was often at the forefront of these efforts, although strategies and
                              approaches would vary among its residents.
                         In 1889, Jane Addams, a well-to-do, college-educated Protestant woman
                              from downstate Illinois, founded Hull House as an answer for women who
                              were seeking alternatives to marriage and uses for their education. It
                              was a center of both social services and Americanization that welcomed
                              the broad spectrum of immigrants who flocked to Chicago in the late
                              nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Although not the first
                              settlement house in the United States, it soon became lionized,
                              along with its founder.19 Hull House, through
                              Addams and her resident colleagues including Florence Kelley, Grace
                              and Edith Abbott, and Ellen Gates Starr, also served as a
                              clearinghouse for a variety of immigrant needs and concerns, and
                              therefore grew from being a friendly gathering place for immigrant
                              neighbors to a formidable force for change in Chicago, and ultimately
                              nationwide, on several fronts.20
                         Nonetheless, Addams and Hull House were never without their detractors,
                              including immigrants who saw what could today be described as a lack
                              of genuine cultural sensitivity. Indeed, one recent scholar has
                              concluded that Addams had the least success working with Eastern
                              European Jewish immigrants, especially when it came to the matter of
                              affirming ethnic identity.21 Even so, there is
                              plenty of evidence 
                                   18Peter G. Filene, "An Obituary
                                        for 'The Progressive Movement,'" American Quarterly, 22 (Spring 1970), 20-34;
                                        Michael Kazin, The Populist Persuasion: An
                                             American History (New York, 1995), 50-51; Menes,
                                        "The East Side and the Jewish Labor Movement,"
                                        211; Daniel T. Rodgers, "In Search of
                                        Progressivism," Reviews in American
                                             History, 10 (December 1982), 113-32; Richard
                                        Schneirov, Labor and Urban Politics: Class
                                             Conflict and the Origins of Modern Liberalism in
                                             Chicago, 1864-97 (Urbana, Ill., 1998), 356;
                                        Shelton Stromquist, Re-Inventing "The
                                             People": The Progressive Movement, the Class
                                             Problem, and the Origins of Modern Liberalism
                                        (Urbana, Ill., 2006), 3-7.
                                   19Mary Lynn McCree Bryan and Allen E
                                        Davis, eds., One Hundred Years at Hull
                                             House (Bloomington, Ind., 1990), 5.
                                   20Ibid., 1-9; and Mary Ann Johnson,
                                        "Hull House," in The Encyclopedia of
                                             Chicago, eds. James R. Grossman, Ann Durkin
                                        Keating, and Janice L. Reiff (Chicago, 2004), 615.
                                   21Lissak, Pluralism and
                                             Progressives, 1-7, 79-80.
                              
                               that Eastern European Jewish
                              immigrants benefited from Hull House's services, especially
                              before there was a Jewish-run settlement or communal center of any
                              kind to provide significant competition. For example, the
                              autobiography of Hilda Satt Polacheck, a Russian Jewish immigrant to
                              Chicago, focused on how Addams changed the course of her life.
                              Polacheck -- at the time a clothing worker -- had, after one long day
                              on the job, walked over to Hull House, where Addams talked to her and
                              decided that she should try hand spinning for the settlement's
                              Labor Museum, a handicrafts workshop for immigrant youth. Polacheck
                              responded well to the craft, and went on to become an active member of
                              the Hull House community, eventually obtaining a college education
                              with Addams's encouragement.22
                         Over time, however, Polacheck's story became less and less typical,
                              as Hull House received increased competition from German Jewish
                              organizations such as the Maxwell Street Settlement and, more signifi
                              cantly, the Chicago Hebrew Institute. While Addams has been rightly
                              lauded for her role in transforming the lives of all the working-class
                              immigrant communities through her active support of the garment trades
                              and other union movements, her overall legacy in Chicago's Jewish
                              community is more mixed, owing largely to the tension within that
                              community between Germans and Eastern Europeans, and between longtime
                              and newly arrived immigrants. This tension, in turn, highlighted the
                              difficulties of reconciling Addams's stated objective of
                              Americanization with her growing appreciation of the necessity of
                              maintaining the best of immigrant cultures. In some ways Addams and
                              her Hull House colleagues were thoroughly in league with the German
                              Jewish ideal of Americanization: that Jewish identity should be main
                              tained but should also be adapted as much as possible to American
                              ways. As part of their opposition to bilingual education, they
                              supported the efforts of Chicago's German Jews to eliminate the
                                   cheder (the traditional religious school), both
                              out of concern for poor educational conditions (already a concern
                              throughout the city's Jewish community) and out of a fear that
                              pupils would "'defer the hopes of American citizenship by
                              the substitution of Judisch for English."'23 In a similar expression of frustra- 
                                   22Jean Bethke Elshtain, Jane Addams and the Dream of American Democracy: A
                                        Life (New York, 2002), 142-44; Hilda Satt
                                        Polacheck, I Came a Stranger: The Story of a
                                             Hull House Girl, ed. Dena J. Polacheck Epstein
                                        (Urbana,
                                        Ill., 1989), 62-67 and passim.
                                   23Lissak, Pluralism and
                                             Progressives, 50-51; Charles Zeublin, "The
                                        Chicago Ghetto," in Hull House Maps and
                                             Papers, 103.
                              
                               tion, Hull House resident Mary
                              Rozet Smith wrote to Ester Loeb Kohn, a German Jewish Hull House
                              resident, in regard to the settlement's Children's House
                              activities: "the cooking is going gaily though several little
                              Jewish girls are looking rather gloomily at their dish of beef and
                              salt pork."24
                         According to Rivka Lissak, the principle reason for Addams's fail
                              ure to greatly influence Chicago's Eastern European Jewish
                              community was her unwillingness to recognize their existing sense of
                              communal identity. Throughout her career at the helm of Hull House,
                              Addams made no provisions for the importance of Yiddish language and
                              culture as an existing source of identity for the city's Eastern
                              European Jews. By the same token, the Eastern European Jewish
                              community already had its own Americanizing agent in the German Jewish
                              community: "[T]he Jewish leadership as a whole," writes
                              Lissak, "was reluctant to give Hull House any foothold in the
                              education of its youth or in meeting their social, cultural, and
                              welfare needs," except in an advisory role.25
                         But if Hull House residents proved inadequate to the task of recog
                              nizing the subtleties of Jewish cultural identity, they achieved far
                              greater success in advancing the cause of the Jewish labor movement,
                              led as it was by marginally affiliated Jews. Florence Kelley, one of
                              Hull House's first residents, had begun her illustrious career as
                              the state's first factory inspector in 1894, becoming an early
                              advocate for Eastern European Jewish workers. Testifying before the
                              United States Industrial Commission in 1899, Kelley concluded: It is perfectly safe to say that the poorest
                                   people working in any trade in Chicago are the people who work in
                                   the garment trades. There is no other set of people who are both
                                   working and also to so great an extent receiving relief from
                                   public and private charity.26
                              
                                   24Mary Rozet Smith to Esther Loeb Kohn,
                                        April 3, 1914, Esther Loeb Kohn Papers, folder 120, Special
                                        Collections and University Archives, University of Illinois
                                        at Chicago.
                                   25Lissak, Pluralism and
                                             Progressives, 80, 93-94; see also Seymour J.
                                        Pomrenz, "Aspects of Chicago Russian-Jewish Life,"
                                        in The Chicago Pinkas, ed. Simon
                                        Rawidowicz (Chicago, 1952), 117-19.
                                   26Florence Kelley, "In
                                        Chicago's Sweatshops," from testimony before the
                                        U.S. Industrial Commission, May 3, 1899, in Out
                                             of the Sweatshop: The Struggle for Industrial
                                             Democracy, ed. Leon Stein (New York, 1977),
                                        31-33.
                              
                               Her further findings on the
                              Chicago sweatshops, published in Hull House Maps and Papers (one of
                              Hull House's earliest efforts to sympathetically present the
                              immigrants' situation to the public) noted the hypocrisy of
                              inside shop owners who used sweatshops to keep costs down: A millionaire philanthropist, at the head of
                                   one of the largest clothing-houses in the world, was once asked
                                   why he did not employ directly the people who made his goods, and
                                   furnish them with steam-power, thus saving a heavy drain upon
                                   their health, and reducing the number of sweaters' victims
                                   found every winter in his pet hospital. The unnamed
                              manufacturer's response was that "[s]o far...we have found
                              leg-power and the sweater cheaper." Kelley expressed not only
                              sympathy but also solidarity with the "Jewish sweaters'
                              victims," whom she regarded as "more temperate,
                              hard-working, and avaricious than any equally large body of
                              wage-earners in America," and whose sacrifices and suffering in
                              order to improve their families future prospects she saw as "a
                              conclusive refutation of the ubiquitous argument that poverty is the
                              result of crime, vice, intemperance, sloth, and unthrift."27
                         One of Hull House's most notable contributions to Chicago's
                              immigrant working class was its willingness to provide a space for
                              labor organizations to meet. This was no small thing, especially for
                              women workers and organizers: the job of mounting any successful labor
                              action required a more comfortable and acceptable alternative to the
                              saloons that were the only available meeting spaces at the time.
                              Before this was possible, however, Hull House had to earn credibility
                              with Chicago's labor activists. It did so in 1891, when Addams
                              invited Mary Kenney, president of the women's bookbinders'
                              union and one of the city's first female union leaders, to Hull
                              House for dinner. Kenney initially suspected Addams of being simply
                              another upper-class philanthropist, but Addams proved able to win her
                              over, and the resulting partnership gave Hull House the necessary
                              credibility to host and lend support to a vari 
                                   27Kelley, "The
                                        Sweating-System," 70.
                              
                               ety of labor groups, including the
                              clothing unions.28 This credibility proved
                              critical to Hull House's shifting alliances during the first
                              decades of the twentieth century, especially as labor activism rose
                              within the Eastern European Jewish community.
                    
                    
                         THE 1910 STRIKE, HULL HOUSE, AND THE JEWISH COMMUNITY

                         The Great Strike of 1910 grew out of many causes, some of them pervasive
                              across the industry and others unique to the strike's originat
                              ing location: Hart, Schaffner, and Marx. Of the clothing
                              industry's 38,000 workers, 65 percent were immigrants and 32
                              percent had immigrant parents. Eastern European Jews, who would end
                              up playing such a large role in the industry's union leadership,
                              were not the largest ethnic group represented in the workforce,
                              although they constituted a sizeable minority. About half the
                              workforce was female, and while women workers played a significant
                              role in the strike, only Bessie Abramowitz would play a significant
                              leadership role.29
                         For all the problems with HSM's work environment, Hannah (Annie)
                              Shapiro, one of the instigators of the strike, remembered conditions
                              there as relatively good compared to other places she had worked. The
                              company allowed her to leave early Friday and to stay home on
                              Saturday. But Shapiro, a natural leader, apparently saw enough
                              problems in the workplace that she began speaking to the bosses about
                              the grievances of her co-workers, as well as reporting her own. It
                              was not surprising, therefore, that on September 22, 1910, when she
                              decided that a piece-rate reduction for pocket-sewing from four cents
                              to three-and-a-half cents was unacceptable, she not only walked out,
                              but persuaded sixteen other women to join her. This spontaneous
                              walkout grew into a mass strike that included thousands of workers
                              from several shops across the city. Strike leader and later
                              Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America (ACWA) official Frank
                              Rosenblum recalled that "[i]t was a 
                                   28Mina Carson, Settlement
                                             Folk: Social Thought and the American Settlement
                                             Movement, 1885-1930 (Chicago, 1990), 77-78; Mary
                                        Kenney, "Mary Kenney is Invited In," in One Hundred Years at Hull-House,
                                        22.
                                   29N. Sue Weiler, "Walkout: The
                                        Chicago Men's Garment Workers' Strike,
                                        1910-11," Chicago History: The Magazine of
                                             the Chicago Historical Society, 8 (Winter
                                        1979-80), 238-39, 249.
                              
                               spontaneous rebellion against
                              intolerable conditions....It was a revolution."30
                         At first, however, the action seemed just another instance of what had
                              become typical wildcat strikes among the Jewish clothing workers. To
                              date, such walkouts had greatly outpaced workers' efforts at
                              coordinating an organized strike. Yet as Jacob Potofsky, a future
                              leader of the ACWA, recalled, word of the initial walkout spread via a
                              Hull House meeting; five hundred people gathered to air their
                              grievances, after which Potofsky returned to his shop floor in an
                              effort to convince some three hundred fellow workers to join him in
                              the growing walkout. The meeting, which also served as an
                              after-the-fact planning and coordination session, resulted in the
                              formation of several committees staffed by the strikers'
                              Progressive allies. The Pickets Committee, according to early labor
                              historian Leo Wolman, not only supported the pickets, but also gave
                              essential "publicity to the outrageous conduct of the police and
                              strikebreakers" -- an act that helped "as much as anything
                              during the first few weeks towards swinging the weight of public
                              opinion on the side of the strikers." Addams would later recall
                              that it was "a matter of pride to the residents of Hull-House
                              that the first meeting" leading to the founding of the ACWA
                              "should have been held in one of our rooms, offered as a refuge
                              to a number of Russian Jewish men and women who had split off from a
                              Trades Union meeting on the North Side of Chicago. "31
                         Even then, many, including future ACWA President Sidney Hillman, did not
                              take the women seriously, initially regarding them as "a joke
                              among the men," until "some 'bold spirits"'
                              -- men and women alike -- joined them. By the end of the first week,
                              strikers numbered in the hundreds.32 Hillman, who
                              would go on to marry Bessie Abramowitz, one of the strike's
                              earliest instigators, was far from alone in his initial
                              underestimation of the "bold spirits." Many of the early
                              accounts of the 
                                   30"Strike Settled in One Big
                                        Plant: 10,000 To Go Back. Hart, Schaffner, & Marx Reach
                                        Agreement with Employees at a Conference," Chicago Tribune, January 11, 1911; Frank
                                        Rosenblum, interview by Elizabeth Balanoff, August 14, 1970,
                                        Columbia Oral History Collection, Oral History Research
                                        Office, Columbia University, New York (hereafter COHC);
                                        Weiler, "Walkout," 238-41.
                                   31Jane Addams, The Second
                                        Twenty Years at Hull House: 1909-1929 (New York,
                                        1930), 290; Leo Wolman, The Chicago Clothing
                                             Workers, 1910-1922 (Chicago, 1922), 28-30.
                                   32Fraser, Labor Will Rule, 46; Jacob
                                        Potofsky, interview by Elizabeth Balanoff, August 4, 1970,
                                        COHC; Weiler, "Walkout," 241.
                              
                               strike, emphasizing the youth and
                              gender of the "girl" strikers, at least implicitly expressed
                              amazement at what the "little garment strikers" were willing
                              to put themselves through in order to protest their increasingly
                              intolerable working conditions. Tribune reporter
                              Harriett Ferrill suggested that the "over 30,000 pale,
                              undersized" strikers were "luxuriating, reveling,
                              delighting in the pleasures of a strike, which is...a relaxation
                              from the monotonous grind at the factory all day.""33 As the strike progressed, however, few could
                              pretend that the predominantly female strikers' efforts were
                              either frivolous or a lark, and Ferrill's tone shifted to
                              emphasize the pathos of the strikers' situation, including, in
                              one article, an appeal to her readers' sympathy for "a
                              pretty girl, with big, appealing, brown eyes" who declared in
                              broken English "'I cannot speak out in words all those
                              mistreatings I have."'34
                         The strike resulting from the "mistreatings" recounted by this
                              anonymous worker lasted for five months before the national leadership
                              of the United Garment Workers (UGW), the only men's clothing
                              union at the time, stepped in to broker a premature settlement. During
                              those months, strikers waged a pitched struggle in the face of
                              obstacles ranging from police violence to inadequate funding,
                              especially as supplies of food and coal fell short. As a result,
                              widespread public support and recognition of the essential justice of
                              the striker's grievances helped to keep the strike going as long
                              as it did. Violence against the strikers, present from the
                              strike's beginning, only increased with the manufacturer's
                              importation of out-of-town strikebreakers. The strikebreakers'
                              presence would become an increasingly complicating factor, as the
                              efforts of hired guards to "protect" them led to further
                              violence against strikers, whom police and press alike frequently
                              blamed for the violence. The magnitude of the violence became
                              especially apparent when two strikers, Charles Lazinskas and Frank
                              Nagrekis, were killed by the police -- Lazinskas after he had
                              purportedly attacked a "special policeman" hired by the
                              Royal Tailors.35



                         
                              33Harriet Ferrill, "When Amie, the
                                   Determined Garment Worker, Goes on Strike. With Some of her
                                   Companions It Is a Holiday Lark to Defy the 'Cops' and
                                   the 'Boss'; With Others It Is a Sorry Fight to Escape
                                   the Ignominy of Being Called a 'Scab,"' Chicago Tribune, November 6, 1910.
                              34Harriet Ferrill, "Some Side Lights on
                                   the Strike of the Garment Workers," Chicago
                                        Tribune, November 13, 1910.
                              35"Garment Strike Gains 112 Firms. From
                                   8,000 to 10,0000 Clothing Makers Get Recognition of Their
                                   Union," Chicago Tribune, November 11,
                                   1910; Wolman, Chicago Clothing Workers, 17-20,
                                   30.
                         


                         




                         Women workers were not spared in the police brutality, and even their
                              upper-class female supporters, notably Starr, were roughed up by the
                              police. Starr vividly recounted one of her run-ins with Chicago police
                              as she sought to assist strikers and to influence a large group of
                              apparent strikebreakers in front of the Price & Co. clothing
                              factory. The strikebreakers had been given police protection, Starr
                              reported, against "a group of three rather small women" that
                              included Emma Steghagen and "Miss S. M. Franklin" as well as
                              herself -- all of whom, she added, were "never allowed to stand
                              for an instant, but [were] ordered, usually roughly to 'move
                              about their business."' In a characteristic example of her
                              combative assertiveness, Starr proceeded to argue with the police
                              officers. She then recounted: After a time, a
                                   superior officer arrived who was insolent and brutal and
                                   absolutely outside his rights, as I was entirely within mine. I
                                   was then alone, having separated myself from the girls, and was
                                   simply walking back and forth in front of the factory. After
                                   roughly asking me, 'who are you?' and 'What are
                                   you doing here' and hearing that I was simply a citizen of
                                   the United States and settlement worker here in the interest of
                                   justice and fair play, he informed me that if I passed by once
                                   more I would be sent to the station. Starr retreated, but
                              the police continued to take every measure possible to
                              "protect" the strikebreakers, ensuring that "no pickets
                              should be allowed to speak to them." Starr called the spectacle
                              "a heart sickening sight" to a proud descendant of Ethan
                              Allen and "an American since 1632."36 If
                              other female strike supporters were less openly confrontational than
                              she, they were, according to one report, "given no more con-
                                   
                                   36"Men Fight Women Strikers.
                                        Battle for Possession of Tickets at Relief Station. Letter
                                        From Miss Starr. Charges Police with Brutality and Speaks of
                                        Her Americanism," Chicago Tribune,
                                        November 24, 1910; "Dinner Gifts for Strikers. Garment
                                        Workers Celebrate Holiday at Their Homes," Chicago Tribune, November 25, 1910; "1910
                                        Testimony by Ellen Gates Starr of the Picket
                                        Committee," Extension of the Ten Hour Law;
                                             Report of the Legislative Committee of the Women's
                                             Trade Union League of Illinois (Chicago, 1911),
                                        reprinted in Ellen Gates Starr, On Art, Labor,
                                             and Religion, eds. Mary Jo Deegan and Ana-Maria
                                        Wahl (New Brunswick, N. J., 2003), 117-18; EleanorJ. Stebner,
                                             The Women of Hull House: A Study in
                                                  Spirituality, Vocation and Friendship (Albany,
                                        N.Y., 1997), 92-95.
                              
                               sideration than the regular
                              pickets" by the police, whether they were other settlement
                              workers, Chicago Women's Trade Union League (WTUL) activists, or
                              "college girls"; several were "grabbed by the arm and
                              shoved along by the unsympathetic bluecoats.""37
                         With winter approaching and neither side apparently willing to give,
                              pressure to settle the strike came from a growing number of outside
                              groups, including a "Citizens' Committee" that would
                              work closely with the WTUL, arguing that, according to Maureen
                              Flanagan, "a just solution to the strike was not only important
                              for the striking employees," but even more importantly "for
                              the welfare of the city."38 The committee
                              appointed Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch as its head. In this role, Hirsch would
                              reveal the tension that, for many Progressives, lay between their
                              lofty ideals and a more visceral disdain for some of the same people
                              whom they sought to uplift. Hirsch, during his long and illustrious
                              career as rabbi of the prestigious Sinai Temple, frequently served as
                              the de facto conscience of the city's German
                              Jewish community; his writings and sermons often "touched on
                              the special duties that capitalists and men of wealth owed to
                                   society."39 Hirsch played an essentially
                              prophetic role in relation to the German Jewish community's
                              response to the strike. As rabbi, he commanded the attention of a
                              number of leading clothing manufacturers who belonged to Sinai Temple,
                              and his reach also extended further, through both his public writing
                              and his chairing of the Citizens' Committee (the German Jewish
                              members of which were, according to Steven Fraser, ashamed enough of
                              their coreligionists to declare the strike "thoroughly
                              justified"). Yet Hirsch may have maintained his credibility
                              with the clothing manufacturers because his attitude towards the
                              Eastern European Jewish community scarcely differed from theirs. Like
                              them, he felt a genuine sense of responsibility towards and concern
                              for his coreligionists, mixed with a healthy dose of paternalism and
                              sometimes barely disguised contempt.40



                         
                              37"Armed Mob Led by Girl in Fight.
                                   Revolvers Discharged by the Police and Rioters During Bold
                                   Clashes in the Garment Workers' Strike," Chicago Tribune, November 3, 1910.
                              38Maureen A. Flanagan, Seeing
                                   With Their Hearts: Chicago Women and the Vision of the Good
                                   City, 1871-1933 (Princeton, N. J., 2002), 110.
                              39Peter M. Ascoli, Julius
                                        Rosenwald: The Man who Built Sears, Roebuck and Advanced the
                                        Cause of Black Education in the South (Bloomington,
                                   Ind., 2006), 54.
                              40Susan Roth Breitzer, "The Conscience
                                   of the Community: The Rabbis of Chicago Sinai Temple," paper
                                   given at Marcus Center Fellowship Seminar, American Jewish
                                   Archives, Cincinnati, Ohio, May 2001; Fraser, Labor
                                        Will Rule, 59.
                         


                         




                         Hirsch revealed this ambivalence in his public declaration that the
                              walkout was likely "a manifestation of 'Jewish
                              emotionalism,"' arguing that "if there is a basis for
                              the strike, the committee will endeavor to adjust it," but that
                              if it were "merely an attempt on the part of a few to organize
                              the workers I would not consider the cause to be an altogether worthy
                              one." Hirsch then surmised that "the strike is an emotional
                              affair, such as Jewish people, especially Jewish women are easy prey
                              to." Yet, perhaps anticipating or responding to the protestations
                              of non-Jewish elite women such as Starr, he also remarked that
                              "'If one talks about the wrongs of the Jewish race and
                              appeals to them on the strength of this argument, the wrong they
                              suffer now, either real or imaginary -- it is not difficult in this
                              way to arouse the sympathy of Jewish people as well as others,"
                              but that it would be "our larger purpose to bring all of these
                              factions together on a common basis and try to reestablish peace as
                              quickly as possible."41
                         Several Hull House residents, but none more so than Starr, involved
                              themselves in nearly all phases of strike support, joining the WTUL
                              and other upper-class activist groups. In order to reach the middle
                              class and because of the background of the most prominent activists,
                              they emphasized the then-normative themes of the sanctity of mother
                              hood, childhood, and the home, and the threats to all of these by an
                              industrial system that kept women toiling in the sweatshops. They may
                              also have been trying to highlight the very real needs of the 5,000
                              infant children of unemployed strikers, including the 1,250
                              "strike babies" born during this time. One committee member
                              likened the starvation of the babies and small children to the
                              Biblical "slaughter of the innocents," while Addams,
                              arguing that the children "have done nothing wrong whether their
                              parents have or not," saw it as a matter of duty "to take
                              care of them until the strike is settled or their parents have secured
                              employment." While few would have argued against the innocence
                              and helplessness of the young children suffering from the vicissitudes
                              of the strike, appealing for public sympathy on the basis of the women
                              workers' helplessness was a somewhat different matter.
                              Residents' attitudes 
                                   41"See Strike's End; Riot Fever Cools. Dr. Emil
                                        G. Hirsch of Active Citizens' Body Fears That
                                        'Jewish Emotionalism' Caused Walkout," Chicago Tribune, November 4, 1910; Paula
                                        E. Hyman, Gender and Assimilation in Modem
                                             Jewish History: The Roles and Representation of
                                             Women (Seattle, Wash., 1995), 140-41; Benjamin
                                        Stolberg, Tailor's Progress: The Story of
                                             a Famous Union and the Men Who Made It (Garden
                                                  City, N.Y., 1944), 18-20.
                              
                               reflected their ignorance of the
                              acceptability of women's work outside the home among Eastern
                              European Jewish households.42 As Fraser has
                              pointed out, "for Jewish immigrant women particularly," who
                              had gained a sense of status, equality, and respect for their
                              breadwinning role otherwise unavailable in traditional Eastern
                              European Jewish society, "the high-flown language of the League
                              must have seemed strange, or at least to have missed the point."
                              Yet during the establishment phase of the new garment workers'
                              union, the WTUL would play a critical role in the development of
                              stable unionism. By working with Hillman and Abramowitz to educate the
                              rank and file in the methods of a unionism that avoided wildcat
                              strikes, established self-government, and adjusted grievances
                              peacefully through union-appointed representatives, the League helped
                              to pave the way for the separate HSM agreement.43
                         By the time of its sudden conclusion, the strike had cost the WTUL and
                              the Chicago Federation of Labor nearly $54,000, mostly for daily meal
                              tickets for strikers' families. Funds came from a variety of
                              sources, including other labor organizations and the Socialist press.
                              Jewish organizations and the general public also came forward to help;
                              their contributions included $150 from the German Jewish clothing
                              house of Kuh, Nathan, and Fischer, sent on the condition that
                              "all of it should go to the very poor & suffering" and
                              that "none of it by any chance fall into the hands of the
                              cutters!" who were among those on strike. Starr disparaged as
                              "the most sublime form of effrontery" the firm's effort
                              to "state to an attentive public that so far from being
                              indifferent to the suffering" that they had helped create,
                              "they themselves would feed the starving people which these
                              unprincipled labor leaders had forcibly prevented from earning bread
                              for their families."44




                         
                              42Viola Paradise, "The Jewish Immigrant
                                   Girl in Chicago," The Survey (September
                                   16, 1913), 699.
                              43"Mayor's Demand is Arbitration.
                                   Busse Urges Garment Workers and Employers to Submit Their Case to
                                   a 'Strike Court,'" Chicago
                                        Tribune, December 9, 1910; "Milk is Promised for
                                   Strike Babes. 7,000 Real Sufferers in Garment Workers'
                                   Walkout Will Get Aid or Funds," Chicago
                                        Tribune, November 28, 1910; Fraser, Labor
                                        Will Rule, 60-61, 72-73; Weiler, "Walkout,"
                                   245.
                              44"Report of the Committee on Garment
                                   Workers Strike," February 19, 1911, Chicago Federation of
                                   Labor Papers, box 1, folder 4, Chicago History Museum, Chicago;
                                   Morris Sesskind, "The Chicago Foreign Language Press Survey
                                   Jewish Labor-Movement in Chicago -- Its Past and Present,"
                                        Forward, April 23, 1922, CFLPS; and Ellen
                                   Gates Starr to Robert Wood, March 27, 1911[?], Ellen Gates Starr
                                   Papers, Sophia Smith Collection, Smith College. Northampton,
                                   Massachusetts (hereafter SSC).
                         


                         




                         Most of the relief contributions coming from Chicago's larger
                              Jewish community were characterized by far less chutzpah than the
                              house of Kuh, Nathan, and Fischer's outrageous offer. In the
                              early days of the strike, the Jewish Courier
                              reported that "the present garment workers strike not only has
                              interested the Jewish West and North Siders of Chicago," but
                              "the entire Jewish element of the city is considerably wrought up
                              over the strike situation." Notably, most of the sympathy went
                              towards the strikers, and when the Courier announced
                              a benefit concert sponsored by the Garment Strikers' Aid Society,
                              it did not fail to note that "a Northwest Side physician promised
                              to donate double the amount of the intake of this concert," or to
                              urge "every Jewish person who knows the conditions and the plight
                              of these needy workers to help all he possibly can" as well as to
                              "induce the West Side physicians to do the same charitable act
                              that this doctor on the Northwest Side did." This active support
                              was joined by the efforts of Chicago's Progressive elite. The
                              Yiddish paper, The World, later recalled that
                              "ministers, rabbis, university professors, bankers, all joined
                              in the work of the striking tailors" through public speaking,
                              writing, and fundraising.45
                         Ellen Gates Starr would eventually emerge as a self-appointed prophet.
                              She admonished German Jewish clothing manufacturers using references
                              both to the Bible and to the history of Jewish oppression, and earned
                              an unusual degree of praise from the strikers who were, as Addams put
                              it, "always rather sensitive in regard to the assistance of out
                              siders." Yet Starr's activism differed from her colleagues
                              less in kind than in degree. Other Hull House residents and Chicago
                              Progressives, working individually and collectively, offered
                              critical financial and moral support for the striking garment
                                   workers.46 Their support did not go
                              unappreciated by the strikers or their leaders. As Sidney Hillman
                              later wrote, in a memorial tribute to Grace Abbott: Conditions had been intolerable; our
                                   organization had just been launched -- its treasury was empty, its
                                   friends few, the newspapers biased, the police hostile, the
                                   employees set upon its destruc- 
                                        45The World, October 13, 1916; and
                                             "The Public Stew," The Daily
                                                  Jewish Courier, December 9, 1910, both
                                             CFLPS.
                                        46Addams, Second
                                                  Twenty Years, 290-91; Daniel Levine, Jane Addams and the Liberal
                                                       Tradition (Madison, Wis., 1971), 162-67;
                                             Stebner, Women of Hull House,
                                             92-95.
                                   
                                    tion -- and the workers found
                                   themselves in a desperate conflict against formidable odds. Grace
                                   Abbott, then a resident of Hull House, together with Jane Addams
                                   and other prominent women, joined the fight. She joined our
                                   picket line, helped to collect funds for food and shelter, spoke
                                   at our meetings, presented our case to the public, and appealed
                                   to the city administration to arbitrate the strike.47 Addams began her support rather
                              conservatively, focusing on relief for needy strikers, but eventually
                              developed a close partnership with Hillman, who by then shared with
                              her both the belief that "industrial warfare" was a cause of
                              great waste, and a conviction of the necessity of seeking other ways
                              to work out labor-management disputes. This partnership, balanced
                              with Addams's close ties to the HSM management, gave her vital
                              credibility as an intermediary between the workers and the management
                              at HSM. According to Daniel Levine, one of her earlier biographers, it
                              was Addams who persuaded HSM's chief negotiator Earl Dean Howard,
                              and through him Joseph Schaffner, that this "was no ordinary
                              strike, but a spontaneous, leaderless revolution based on long
                              standing hatreds and injustices." This strong statement, which
                              became part of Howard's report, moved Schaffner to offer his
                              workers a settlement that was more generous than both his own
                              previous offers and those of other clothing houses. Even so, it took
                              Hillman's persuasion for the HSM workers to accept it in the face
                              of opposition fomented by members of the International Workers of the
                                   World.48
                         The Hull House residents' efforts on behalf of a predominantly
                              Eastern European Jewish labor movement were not conducted lightly.
                              Many prominent members of the German Jewish community, including most
                              of the garment manufacturers and their friends and allies, were also
                              visible supporters of Hull House and its constituent organizations.
                              While they clearly shared many of the concerns of the Hull House
                              Progressives, and while many managed to maintain a level of gracious
                              ness that won the respect of the very activists who opposed them,
                                   
                                   47Sidney Hillman, "On the
                                        Industrial Front," The Child Monthly News
                                             Summary, 4 (1939), 38.
                                   48Interview, Irving Abrams by Frank
                                        Ninovich, Oral History Collection of the Labor Movement,
                                        YIVO Archives; Jacob Potofsky Interview, COHC; and Levine,
                                             Addams and the Liberal Tradition,
                                        162-63.
                              
                               Chicago's German Jewish
                              leaders found themselves at odds with their erstwhile allies on this
                              issue.
                         A poignant example was Julius Rosenwald, who served on the board of the
                              Immigrants' Protective League alongside Grace Abbott and her
                              sister Edith, also a noted Progressive reformer. Although Rosenwald
                              (unlike Joseph Schaffner) always remained officially at odds with the
                              Jewish labor movement and always insisted on a firm separation between
                              business and charity, the philanthropy for which he became nationally
                              famous was justly recognized by the Progressive activists with whom he
                              regularly interacted. Additionally, over time, he had reason to be
                              proud of the working conditions and environment he created at the helm
                              of Sears, Roebuck and Company. Rosenwald could undoubtedly have ended
                              up as simply one of the richer philanthropists in Chicago, who urged
                              others to give generously. But the level to which he took his
                              philanthropy also indicates the strong influence of leading Chicago
                              Progressives, from Addams and the Abbott sisters to the spiritual
                              leader of his own community, Rabbi Hirsch. As a result, Rosenwald
                              often found himself forced to tread a thin line between supporting the
                              efforts of the Chicago Progressives, including the Immigrants'
                              Protective League (with which he worked in close partnership with
                              Grace Abbott), and defending his own business practices and public
                                   image.49
                         Edith Abbott wrote in her unpublished memoir, "The Hull House
                              Years," that "Mr. Rosenwald didn't agree with Grace
                              about trade-unions, and we all felt very sorry during the garment
                              workers' strike to think that he wasn't with us." The
                              situation was made additionally uncomfortable, Abbott wrote, because
                              "some of the girls who came to the meetings at Hull House were
                              from the shops of Mr. Rosenwald's company." Rosenwald
                              undoubtedly suffered additional embarrassment when the Tribune
                              reported that "nearly 100 girls at the Sears, Roebuck & Co.
                              plant joined the strike," walking out, ironically, "because
                              of a rule against 'piece work,' a system under which they
                              earned as much as $18 a week, and the announcement of a salary of
                              figure of $12." During one unusually long-running board meeting
                              of the Immigrants' Protective League that took place during the
                              strike, Abbott wrote, sister Grace extricated herself in order to go
                              and make a speech in support of the strikers. As she headed out into
                              the cold, Rosenwald apprehended her, 
                                   49Ascoli, Julius Rosenwald, 56-61; M.
                                        R. Werner, Julius Rosenwald: The Life of a
                                             Practical Humanitarian (New York, 1939), 78-81,
                                        86-94, 158.
                              
                               saying, "I know where
                              you're going and I know I wouldn't agree with what
                              you're going to say if I heard you. But I want you to get there
                              safely." "In spite of her protests," wrote Edith,
                              Rosenwald accompanied Grace down the stairs and called his chauffeured
                              car to take her to her speech. The two remained lifelong friends
                              despite their differences; Edith also admitted that "it was hard
                              to be against Mr. Rosenwald as it were," making the distinction
                              that "we were only against his policy as an employer and not
                              against him personally."50
                    

                    
                         SETTLING WITH HSM AND FOUNDING THE ACWA

                         By early December, the strikers had won enough public sympathy to
                              convince Hart, Schaffner, and Marx to negotiate. The company had
                              agreed to two "peace propositions," both of which were
                              rejected, one by the workers for its punitive nature, the other by the
                              Manufacturers' Association, which truculently declared that there
                              was "nothing to arbitrate." The agreement that the
                              clothing workers finally managed to negotiate with the comparatively
                              forward-looking HSM did not include union recognition.51 Not surprisingly, many rank-and-file strikers found its
                              terms unacceptable, and voted accordingly. A vocal minority, consist
                              ing mostly of non-Jewish workers, was especially eager to denounce not
                              only the settlement, but also the strike leaders, who had allowed the
                              agreement. Only by force of Hillman's persuasion was the majority
                              able to prevail on dissenters to ratify the HSM agreement as an
                              important first step. There was no avoiding the fact, however, that it
                              was a very small step, for it only ended the strike at HSM. As the
                              winter wore on and spirits flagged, Thomas Rickert, the president of
                              the UGW, used his office to unilaterally end the strike, behind the
                              backs of the strikers, their leaders, and the Conference Board.52



                         
                              50"Strikers Barred from Down Town.
                                   Garment Workers and Authorities Clash and Riots Mark Day of
                                   Turbulence," Chicago Tribune, November 1,
                                   1910; Edith Abbott, "The Hull House Years: Protecting
                                   Immigrant Arrivals," pp. 118-19, Edith and Grace Abbott
                                   Papers, box 90, folder 6, University of Chicago Special
                                   Collections and Archives, Chicago; Werner, Julius
                                        Rosenwald, 93-94.
                              51"Strike Settled in One Big
                                   Plant," Chicago Tribune, January 15, 1911;
                                   "Garment Makers Keep a Blacklist. Clothiers' Attorney
                                   Defends Card Index of Workers Before Senators," Chicago Tribune, January 21, 1911; Frank Rosenblum
                                   interview, COHC.
                              52CFL Executive Board Meeting Minutes,
                                   January 15, 1911 and "Report of the Garment Workers'
                                   Strike," February 5, 1915, Chicago Federation of Labor
                                   Papers, box 1, folder 4; Fraser, Labor Will
                                        Rule, 63, 65-67.
                         


                         




                         Why, given its inconclusive ending, did this particular walkout create
                              a movement that lasted well beyond the strike, when nearly all its
                              predecessors had petered out? One key factor was that it involved a
                              company that was comparatively progressive in its outlook, a firm that
                              -- while rejecting a closed shop -- recognized the potential advan
                              tages of maintaining order and discipline through the consent of the
                                   governed.53 Joseph Schaffner, one of
                              HSM's founders, was particularly affected by the strike and the
                              resulting negative publicity. Testifying before the United States
                              Commission on Industrial Relations, which had been investigating
                              conditions in the industry, he fully acknowledged the general
                              discontent prior to the strike: Careful study
                                   of the situation has led me to the belief that the fundamental
                                   cause of the strike was that the workers had no satisfactory
                                   channel through which minor grievances, exactions, and petty
                                   tyrannies of underbosses could be taken up and amicably
                                   adjusted....The result was there steadily grew up in the minds of
                                   many of feeling of distrust and enmity towards their immediate
                                   superiors...because they felt that justice was being denied them.
                                   If they had the temerity to complain against a boss, they
                                   incurred his displeasure, and his word was taken in preference
                                   to theirs. In some instances they lost their jobs, and where this
                                   was not the case they seldom received any satisfaction.
                              Schaffner acknowledged his earlier ignorance of this state of affairs,
                              admitting that just days prior to the strike he "was so badly
                              informed of the conditions" that he "called the attention of
                              a friend to the satisfactory state of the employees." On
                              learning the truth about the conditions in his own factories, he
                              testified, he had concluded that if anything, "the strike should
                              have occurred much sooner."54 This belated
                              empathy may well have played a role in his willingness to negotiate
                              with the union representatives, even if on a limited basis.
                         Although in the short term the strikers achieved far less than they had
                              sought, long-term gains were to come out of the immediate defeat,
                                   
                                   53Fraser, Labor Will
                                             Rule, 55-56.
                                   54Joseph Schaffner, "Testimony
                                        Before the U.S. Commission on Industrial Relations,"
                                        extract, quoted in Fraser, Labor Will
                                        Rule, 51.
                              
                               both for the union and for
                              labor-management relations across the industry. Chicago clothing
                              workers had plenty of reason to believe that they had received a raw
                              deal at the hands of the national UGW leadership, which consisted
                              predominantly of native-born overalls-makers. The resulting showdown
                              at the 1914 UGW convention in Nashville, Tennessee, led to a
                              "breakaway convention" and to the founding of a new
                              organization of men's clothing workers that would become the
                              Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, with Sidney Hillman chosen
                              as the organization's first president almost by acclamation.55
                         Even with Hillman's leadership, however, founding a new union would
                              involve much more than simply organizing and declaring. From its
                              beginnings in October 1914, the "new United Garment Workers"
                              union faced a variety of problems, including a lawsuit over its name
                              that tied up both finances and attention. When the legal wrangling was
                              finally settled, Rickert's UGW maintained control of the rights
                              to the name and to the organization's treasury and New York
                              headquarters, but thanks to the help of lawyer Clarence Darrow, the
                              new organization did manage to maintain the property of the UGW's
                              Chicago District Council and several other locals. The group also won
                              a release from all other legal claims in exchange for agreeing to
                              change its name, settling on the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
                              America.56
                    
                    
                         THE 1915 STRIKE AND SHIFTING ALLIANCES

                         The newly chartered garment workers' union had not been in exis
                              tence long when the half-expected second garment workers' strike
                              erupted in 1915.57 It had begun with the
                              ACWA's peaceful efforts to persuade other clothing
                              manufacturers to adopt labor agreements similar to those enjoyed by
                              the HSM workers. The union sent letters to two hundred clothing
                              houses requesting meetings between their heads and the 
                                   55Bessie Abramowitz to Sidney Hillman,
                                        October 13/14, 1914, ACWA Files, box 1, folder 2, Kheel
                                        Center for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives, M.P.
                                        Catherwood Library, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York
                                        (hereafter LMDA); Melech Epstein, Jewish Labor
                                             in the U.S.A.: An Industrial, Political, and Cultural
                                             History of the Jewish Labor Movement, 2 vols. (New York, 1950), 2:43; Fraser, Labor Will
                                        Rule, 93; Matthew Josephson, Sidney
                                             Hillman, Statesman of American Labor (New York,
                                        1952), 86-88, 98-100.
                                   56Anzuino Mariempietri to Jacob
                                        Potofsky, November 25, 1914, Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
                                        America Files, box 13, folder 15, LMDA; Epstein, Jewish Labor in the U.S.A., 2:44; and
                                        Josephson, Sidney Hillman, 102-107.
                                   57Josephson, Sidney
                                             Hillman, 118.
                              
                              
                              


                                   Garment workers' parade during the 1915
                                        Chicago strike. After the failure of union and manufacturer
                                        negotiations, thousands of workers again went out on
                                        strike.
                                   Harper's Weekly, December
                                        11, 1915
                               ACWA leaders "for the purpose of arbitrating
                              difficulties which have arisen." As Edith Wyatt reported in Harper's Weekly, the ACWA's corre
                              spondence "received no reply from the majority of the
                              recipients," except for a few who freely admitted to the press
                              that they had simply thrown the letters in the trash. Significantly,
                              the workers were calling for and publicizing their willingness to
                              embrace the arbitration process that had proven so successful at HSM,
                              while the manufacturers remained staunchly unwilling to negotiate. The
                              attorney representing the Wholesale Clothing Manufacturers'
                              Association, Martin J. Isaacs, publicly insisted that there was no
                              reason to arbitrate and that there was no reason for the union to go
                              on strike, save for the agitation of union leaders. Hillman spent
                              hours negotiating with Jacob Abt, then the head of the Wholesale
                              Clothiers Manufacturer's Association, to no avail.58



                         
                              58Edith Wyatt, "The Chicago Clothing
                                   Strike," Harper's Weekly, December
                                   11, 1915, p. 556. 
                         

                         




                         The strike officially began on September 27, 1915, at the pre-arranged
                              signals of the shop chairmen. Despite Hillman's strict orders
                              prohibiting violence on the part of the strikers, the Chicago Daily
                              Tribune reported 493 acts of violence, including what Wyatt described
                              as "the most cowardly and brutal attacks on
                              strike-breakers, -- three persons against one, the beating of girls,
                              the throwing of acid." Displaying a balance apparently absent
                              from the Tribune report, Wyatt also pointed out that
                              "the report mentioned no violences as perpetrated against strik-
                              ers" despite the fact that "many of the names and addresses
                              on the list of sufferers from violence were known to be those of
                                   strikers."59
                         The level of police brutality in 1915 exceeded even that of the 1910
                              strike. Officers drove motorcycles into crowds of strikers -- prompting
                              comparisons with the police in Russia -- and arrested and jailed nearly
                              two thousand people by the time the strike was concluded. Mayor
                              William Hale "Big Bill" Thompson steadfastly refused to rein
                              in the excesses of the force. The situation reached a new low on
                              October 27, 1915, when officers suddenly charged a crowd assembled
                              near the union's headquarters -- and near one of the factories
                              located at the corner of Harrison and Halsted Streets. A deaf tailor,
                              Samuel Kapper, failed to get away fast enough, and was shot in cold
                              blood, despite later police claims of having fired in self-defense.
                              Ten thousand men, women, and children marched in Kapper's funeral
                              procession, and the sight of these crowds further influenced public
                                   opinion.60
                         On November 10, an estimated 1,000 strikers and supporters marched
                              together to city hall for court appearances, only to be released on
                              their own recognizance when the crowd proved too large for the
                              courtroom. Although Mayor Thompson himself remained largely unre
                              sponsive to the complaints of the strikers and their supporters, their
                              efforts did eventually lead to an investigation of the police that led
                              in turn to lasting reform. Starr, writing in her unpublished
                              "Reflections on the Recent Chicago Strike of Clothing
                              Workers," observed that "[i]t is not difficult to see why
                              the mayor, whose interest was vivid in the strike of street car men
                              (mostly voters) in the preceding June, was ossified indifference in
                              this one." Highlighting the differences that distinguished 
                                   59Josephson, Sidney
                                        Hillman, 122-24; and Wyatt, "The Chicago
                                        Clothing Strike," 556.
                                   60"One Dead, Three Hurt in Strike
                                        Riot," Chicago Daily Tribune, October
                                        27, 1915; "Slain Striker Praised as Hero in Funeral
                                        Talk. Rabbi Tells Thousands Samuel Kapper Died for His
                                        Principles," Chicago Tribune, October
                                        29, 1915; Wolman, Chicago Clothing
                                        Workers, 99.
                              
                               this strike from the previous
                              summer's streetcar strike, Starr added that the mayor
                              "turned a deaf ear to all approaches of well-known individuals,
                              representatives of labor, of women's social and political
                              organizations, of settlements, church federations." His
                              response to their calls for arbitration, she dramatically proclaimed,
                              was "violence."61
                         Yet Starr and her settlement colleagues persisted in their highly public
                              support of the strike, doing everything from walking the picket line
                              to providing food and clothing to strikers' families who were in
                              need. Union leader Potofsky wrote of Starr's tireless efforts
                              that "I recall her visits to my office at 818 Harrison Street
                              with bundles of old clothing under her arm, which she collected from
                              her wealthy friends and asking for addresses of sick and needy
                              striking families she might help," adding that Starr "was on
                              the job day and night."62 In December 1915,
                              after the strike's termination, Hillman wrote Starr to thank her
                              for her support and for "sympathy of the active and not the
                              passive kind shown by some other good friends." Hillman noted
                              that she had taken her place "on the firing line, and personally
                              bore the insults of the police and private sluggers of the
                              employers," and inspired others by her "very presence and
                                   example."63
                         This visible support from the Hull House activists and other elite women
                              played an important role in both shoring up and spreading general
                              public support for the strikers, as well as in turning up the pressure
                              on the employers. Starr noted that " [t]he strike was written of
                              in several magazines," and that even those local dailies
                              "naturally disposed in favor of those who advertise, gave it more
                              fair publicity than usual." Yet Starr also admitted that "in
                              many respects this strike was like others" because "there
                              was the same array of money power, press power, police power, against
                              the relative powerlessness of the dispossessed, and the
                              unfranchised." She added that "sixty percent of the strikers
                              were women, and even a larger percent of the men were not
                                   voters."64 That the 
                                   61Ellen Gates Starr, "Reflections
                                        on the Recent Chicago Strike of Clothing Workers,"
                                        undated, Ellen Gates Starr Papers, SSC. See also Georg
                                        Leidenberger, Chicago's Progressive
                                             Alliance: Labor and the Bid for Public Streetcars
                                        (DeKalb, Ill., 2006), 146.
                                   62Jacob S. Potofsky, "Happy
                                        Birthday to Ellen Gates Starr," 1939, Ellen Gates Starr
                                        Papers, folder 1, SSC.
                                   63Sidney Hillman to Ellen Gates Starr,
                                        December 22, 1915, Ellen Gates Starr Papers, SSC.
                                   64Ellen Gates Starr, "Reflections
                                        on the Recent Chicago Strike of Clothing Workers,"
                                        Ellen Gates Starr Papers, SSC.
                              
                               ACWA's continued push for
                              arbitration was joined by no less than Addams, the State Board of
                              Mediation, and the Aldermanic Committee, had no effect on the
                              Manufacturers' Association, and was additionally greeted by what
                              Wolman describes as "specious and evasive statements" from
                              Chicago Mayor Thompson. The Hull House activists, for their part,
                              unabashedly threw their support behind the strikers, and Addams made a
                              last, futile plea to the mayor for arbitration, admonishing him that
                              "if you could be induced to take a hand in the matter we would be
                              able to make some order out of chaos."65
                         Speaking (and writing) even more forcefully was Addams's long-time
                              friend Starr, who with Florence Kelley had also become the most
                              avowedly Socialist resident of Hull House. Starr admonished Jacob Abt,
                              the German Jewish clothier, president of the Wholesale Clothiers
                              Manufacturers' Association, and benefactor of the Maxwell Street
                              Settlement, by drawing on two tenets of Jewish culture: a belief in
                              social justice and an abhorrence of "un-American
                              persecution" of Jews by their fellow Jews. Starr took Abt to task
                              for refusing to meet with her "until after the strike is
                              over" (if at all). Noting that a young boy at the Maxwell Street
                              settlement had thought she was Jewish because she seemed to be
                              "always fighting for the Jews," she drily added that she was
                              simultaneously fighting against them. Abt's previous experience
                              as a settlement worker, she informed him, made him more accountable
                              than others "for the needless horrors that are taking
                              place." Drawing on Jewish scripture, Starr noted that
                              "[w]hen Isaiah rebukes the 'oppressor,' the unfair
                              employer...he does so in these terms...'What mean ye that ye beat
                              my people to pieces and grind the faces of the poor"' -- a
                              passage that, in its "strong language on the side of the weak and
                              oppressed and against the privileged," was "very different
                              from the language and the attitude of the police and of the daily
                              press." Starr then warned Abt: A
                                   persecution of the Jews, by the Jews as
                                   relentless as any the world affords, is going on in our own
                                   midst. Slowly Americans, real Americans by birth and tradition,
                                   are learning what that means. Slowly they are seeing with their
                                   own eyes what the poor foreigners, who are coming to us, as you
                                   once came, for freedom and equality of opportunity, are suffering
                                   from the perversion of 
                                        65Wolman, Chicago
                                                  Clothing Workers, 102, 104, 165.
                                   
                                    justice, which wealth amassed
                                   in our midst...has brought. And as they learn a great protest is
                                   rising. You will hear the echo of that protest and your children
                                   will hear it years hence.66
                              Abt's initial response is not recorded, but Starr's open
                              letter received enough publicity to serve as another visible
                              embarrassment to German Jewish manufacturers like Abt who had stood
                              determined not to arbitrate with their Eastern European
                              coreligionists.
                         The rising tide of public support did not, however, finally translate
                              into success in inducing manufacturers to settle. On December 12,
                              1915, with both sides visibly worn down, the union reluctantly called
                              off its strike. The confrontation had essentially ended in a draw,
                              with no general union recognition, but with concessions from many
                              manufacturers, and the confidence that recognition would soon be
                                   forthcoming.67 Hillman wrote to Starr in late
                              December 1915 that while the clothing workers had not won all they
                              fought for, they had nonetheless gained something: "Life is a
                              compromise, anyway, and we are satisfied if we have taken a little
                              step forward. We gave our employers a good fight and as you know our
                              retreat was far from being an unconditional surrender" because
                              "our people return to work as union men and women, with faith in
                              their organization and full of hope and courage for the
                                   future."68
                    
                    
                         THE STRIKE'S AFTERMATH 
                         Hillman, as Fraser noted, had viewed (and orchestrated) the strike as an
                              "'organizing strike' to boost morale and to establish
                              the supremacy of the ACW over the UGW" in one of the
                              nation's most important clothing markets. In the end he
                              accomplished just that, with a marked increase in the organization of
                              Chicago's clothing industry that left more than ninety clothing
                              houses under contract by the time the strike was settled. Although
                              this figure still represented only one-quarter of the city's
                              clothing workers -- and most of those in the HSM shops -- Fraser 
                                   66"Abt Attacked in Open Letter by
                                        Ellen Starr: Hull House Worker Charges
                                        'Persecution' in Denouncing Garment Employer"
                                        and "Quotes from Israel," Ellen Gates Starr
                                        Papers, SSC; and Ellen Gates Starr to Jacob Abt, November
                                        23, 1915, ACWA Files, LMDA.
                                   67Wolman, Chicago Clothing
                                             Workers, 104; Josephson, Sidney
                                             Hillman, 130-31.
                                   68Hillman to Starr, December 22, 1915,
                                        Ellen Gates Starr Papers, SSC.
                              
                               writes that "never again
                              would this second most important market in the industry be a haven for
                              the open shop." While Chicago lagged far behind New York in terms
                              of the general organization of its clothing workers, HSM provided both
                              an important local model and a nucleus for the rapid unionization that
                              would take place by the end of the decade.69
                         Joseph Schaffner was remembered in the end not merely as the founder of
                              one of the most consistently successful men's clothing houses
                              in the United States, but as a pioneer in labor-management relations.
                              As one eulogist explained in a published tribute: Mr. Schaffner lived for ideals; he helped every
                                   man who came under his influence to be a better man....He helped
                                   to make the clothing business, not only his own business, but
                                   that of the customers of the house, and even that of the
                                   competitors, cleaner, better, higher in tone. He helped to make
                                   the relations between employer and employee better, sweeter, more
                                        human.70 His willingness to seek
                              labor peace and to deal with the union in a way that none of his
                              colleagues had done won him the accolades of Chicagoans from all
                              classes. Following his death on April 19, 1918, the Amalgamated
                              requested that all HSM employees attend the funeral; the company not
                              only requested the same, but also granted its employees a day of paid
                              leave.7' Yet Schaffner, the liberal pioneer, paid a high price,
                              according to Chicago Jewish historian Phillip Bregstone: "The
                              members of the National Manufacturers Association [sic] were so embittered against Mr. Schaffner for his
                              liberal views on labor problems that they never forgave him."
                              Schaffner's less enlightened colleagues, Bregstone adds,
                              "succeeded in avenging themselves when Mr. Schaffner made
                              application for membership in a certain club to which many of them
                              belonged," refusing him membership "[b]ecause of his
                              progressive and 
                                   69Fraser, Labor Will Rule, 99, 101;
                                        Josephson, Sidney Hillman, 116-17; and
                                        Weiler, "Walkout," 249.
                                   70Joseph Schaffner,
                                             1848-1918: Recollections and Impressions of His
                                             Associates (Chicago, 1920), 135
                                   71"Joseph Schaffner is Dead,"
                                             Sunday Jewish Courier, April 21,
                                        1918, CFLPS.
                              
                               humane ideas."72 Over time, the embrace of Schaffner's
                              "progressive and humane ideas" of giving organized labor a
                              significant role in maintaining industrial order would enjoy an
                              increasingly wide currency -- especially, it should be noted, among
                              Chicago's Jewish working class itself.
                    
                    
                         CONCLUSION: OUTGROWING ALLIANCES

                         The strikes and other developments in the lives of Chicago's work
                              ing-class Jewish residents clearly did not take place in a vacuum.
                              Rather, the changes that spread from the workplace to the community
                              organizations were brought about by the efforts not only of radicals
                              and unionists, but also of Jewish organizations, prominent German
                              Jewish leaders, and non-Jewish progressive activists. During the
                              formative decade of the ACWA, visible change was taking place within
                              the city's established German Jewish community. Stirred by the
                              activism of their "inferior" coreligionists, a number of
                              German Jewish leaders -- both rabbinic and lay -- were forced to
                              rethink long-held assumptions about Eastern European Jews and their
                              relationship to them, both as givers of charity and as employers.
                              Although few of these leaders transcended their class biases, most
                              reflected to some degree the influence of the Progressive movement on
                              Chicago's Jewish community.
                         The successes of the ACWA served as an impetus for further labor
                              organization across the trades within Chicago's Eastern European
                              Jewish community and for the strengthening of the UHT.73 By the 1920s, Chicago's Eastern European Jewish
                              community included a rising and increasingly confident middle class.
                              The success of communal leaders such as Bernard Horwich, who had
                              gotten their start as "cultural brokers" to their own
                              community, played a vital role in helping the Eastern European Jewish
                              community gain co-equal status. The shifting alliances between Hull
                              House and the two communities -- its settlement workers simultaneously
                              advocates for the Eastern European Jewish community and the conscience
                              of the German Jewish community -- made the center an increasingly
                              marginal force to both communities.74 This was
                              especial- 
                                   72Phillip Bregstone, Chicago and Its Jews: A Cultural History
                                        (Chicago, 1933), 210. Bregstone may have referred either to
                                        the Standard Club or the Concordia Club, both of which were
                                        known for their well-off German-American Jewish
                                        membership.
                                   73Ibid., 101; and Pomrenz,
                                        "Aspects of Chicago Russian-Jewish Life,"
                                        125-26.
                                   74Lissak, Pluralism and
                                             Progressives, 88-89.
                              
                               ly true by 1923 when, with the
                              merger of the United Jewish Charities and the Federated Orthodox
                              Jewish Charities to form the Jewish Charities of Chicago, the two
                              communities began the process of forming new alliances as more equal
                              partners in what was increasingly becoming one Jewish community.75









                         
                              75"Work or Go Under," Daily Jewish Courier, May 9, 1923, CFLPS; Meites, History of the Jews of Chicago, 336,
                                   589.
                         
                    
               


               

               












                    "Building for a life-time of research"

                    Letters of Alfred Kinsey and Ralph Voris

                    DONNA J. DRUCKER 






                    After the Indiana University zoology professor Alfred Kinsey published his
                         first book of human sex research, Sexual Behavior in the Human
                              Male, in 1948, his correspondence became immense. And after Sexual Behavior in the Human Female was published in
                         1953, he could barely keep up with the number of people who wanted his
                         advice, endorsement, and thoughts on sexual behavior.1
                         Other correspondents wanted to praise or to condemn his work, and still
                         others shared sexual narratives with him, offered him sex-related materials
                         such as artwork and films, or wanted to contribute their own sexual
                         histories to his project. There are approximately seventy thousand
                         letters in the Alfred C. Kinsey Correspondence Collection at the Kinsey
                         Institute Archives in Bloomington, and only a small portion of them date
                         from the period before Kinsey began his sex research in earnest. The
                         letters between Kinsey (1894-1956) and one of his graduate students, Ralph
                         Voris (1902-1940), are a rich source of information for understanding 
                              Donna J. Drucker is visiting lecturer in the Feminist and Gender
                                   Studies Department at Colorado College. She thanks Shawn C.
                                   Wilson and Kathleen A. Fox for their assistance. Letters are
                                   reproduced with permission from the Kinsey Institute for Research
                                   in Sex, Gender, and Reproduction, Inc.
                              1Alfred C. Kinsey, Wardell B. Pomeroy, and
                                   Clyde E. Martin, Sexual Behavior in the Human
                                        Male (Philadelphia, Pa., 1948); Alfred C. Kinsey,
                                   Wardell B. Pomeroy, Clyde E. Martin, and Paul H. Gebhard, Sexual Behavior in the Human Female
                                   (Philadelphia, Pa., 1953).
                         
                          Kinsey's biological research and
                         his transition from studying gall wasps to studying human sexuality.
                    The letters between Kinsey and Voris demonstrate Kinsey's scientific
                         background, training, and priorities. Kinsey learned the art of insect
                         taxonomy from William Morton Wheeler, his graduate adviser at Harvard
                         University's Bussey Institution. Kinsey's graduate school note
                         book shows how he learned from Wheeler (a committed field naturalist) the
                         techniques of classification and speciation, or how to decide what
                         characteristics in a group of specimens should delineate species.2 Kinsey chose the genus Cynips for
                         his dissertation and early research, in part because it was relatively
                         understudied in comparison to other insect genera, and he could make
                         significant contributions to speciation within it. Kinsey also came to
                         believe strongly, as Wheeler did, that scientific research should be based
                         primarily on observation and on the results of in-house breeding. At the
                         same time, Kinsey absorbed Wheeler's profound dislike of laboratory
                         genetics, which the senior man considered artificial and wrongheaded. He
                         originally agreed with his adviser that evolutionary research should not be
                         based on genetic manipulation of insects themselves, though he would soften
                         his position on laboratory research somewhat in the 1930s.3
                    Kinsey published the three chapters of his dissertation and additional gall
                         wasp-related articles during the 1920s. His first book-length text,
                         "Gall Wasp Genus Cynips," printed in 1929, was the most thor
                         ough revision of the genus Cynips to date, and it was the
                         book that Voris received with enthusiasm in the first letter reproduced
                         below. As taxonomers like Kinsey collected and described specimens in
                         lightly or poorly studied genera, they decided which specimens indicated
                         new species and which were examples, subspecies, or variations of existing
                         species. Then, as more specimens were available, taxonomers could dis-
                              
                              2Alfred C. Kinsey, "Lecture Notes of William Morton
                                   Wheeler's Course in Entomology [1917-1919]," series
                                   1.1.2, box 1, Alfred C. Kinsey Collection, Kinsey Institute
                                   Archives, Bloomington, Indiana. For a detailed analysis of
                                   taxonomy in the first half of the twentieth century, and of how
                                   taxonomic practice can be periodized, see Robert E. Kohler, All Creatures: Naturalists, Collectors, and
                                        Biodiversity, 1850-1950 (Princeton, N. J., 2006),
                                   227-52, esp. 239-45.
                              3Alfred C. Kinsey, "Studies of Gall Wasps (Cynipidae,
                                   Hymenoptera)," p. 4, Sc.D. diss., Harvard University, 1919,
                                   series I.D.1, box I, Kinsey Collection; Mary Alice Evans and
                                   Howard Ensign Evans, William Morton Wheeler
                                        Biologist (Cambridge, Mass., 1970), 164-65. See Robert
                                   E. Kohler, Lords of the Fly: Drosophila Genetics and the Experimental Life (Chicago,
                                   1994).
                         
                         
                         
                              Alfred Kinsey inspecting insect galls, c. 1930.
                              Courtesy of the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex,
                                   Gender, and Reproduction, Inc.
                          cover errors in earlier understandings of certain species and
                         could pub- lish revisions and updates of them.4
                    As Kinsey wrote to Voris throughout the 1930s, he was working on his second
                         book-length study of the genus Cynips, which included
                         both genera revisions and descriptions of new species. As that work
                         progressed, Kinsey thought that he had discovered new ways of under
                         standing evolution. In his second and last book on gall wasps, Origin of Higher Categories in Cynips (1936), he advocated
                         reconfiguring the standard two-dimensional, uni-directional Darwinian tree
                         of life into "an infrequently dividing chain in which the oldest
                         species may remain coexistent with all of the derived species."5 He also argued against exper- 
                              4Alfred C. Kinsey, "The Gall Wasp Genus
                                   Cynips: A Study in the Origin of Species," Indiana University Studies, 84-86 (June, September,
                                   December 1929). On the techniques of speciation and their
                                   relationship to collecting practices, see Kohler, All Creatures, 228-36.
                              5Alfred C. Kinsey, The Origin
                                   of Higher Categories in Cynips (Bloomington, Ind.,
                                   1936), 60.
                         
                          imental laboratory-based genetics and
                         paleontology supplanting taxonomic research on the processes of
                         evolution. Not all species -- including gall wasps -- could be bred in
                         laboratories, and so it was necessary to continue collecting specimens in
                         the field, in addition to breeding in-house in order to determine
                         evolutionary patterns. Kinsey's students would learn to esteem
                         observation over laboratory experimentation as they trained to become
                         zoologists.
                    Ralph Voris was, at first, an inauspicious addition to the Indiana University
                         (IU) graduate student body. He arrived in Bloomington, Indiana, in 1924
                         after receiving a bachelor's degree from Southwestern College in
                         Winfield, Kansas. He finished his doctorate in zoology on the taxonomy of
                         staphylinid beetles in 1928. Kinsey and Voris often took insect gathering
                         trips together, and Kinsey taught Voris the processes of collection,
                         organization, and description of species. Kinsey also instructed Voris
                         and his other graduate students, as Wheeler had instructed him, in the art
                         of drawing insect morphology. After Voris completed his dissertation, he
                         took a position teaching biology at Southwest Missouri State Teacher's
                         College (now Missouri State University) in Springfield.
                    The letters reprinted below begin when Kinsey was a decade into establishing
                         himself in the intellectual world of evolutionary research and was
                         mentoring Voris, his first advisee. They show that Kinsey encouraged Voris
                         to work harder on the staphylinid beetles, in part so that Voris could make
                         a name for himself, and in part because Kinsey wanted to see if his
                         evolutionary ideas held for a different insect genus. Voris never published
                         more than a few articles, due to some extent to his significant teaching
                         responsibilities at an underfunded state teacher's college. He
                         remained at Southwest Missouri State until his death from heart failure in
                              1940.6 One letter of his is included below to
                         provide a sense of his voice.
                    Biographer James H. Jones has suggested, using anonymous interviews as a
                         source, that the relationship between Kinsey and Voris was sexual.7 Their letters occasionally mention sexual techniques
                         or erotic texts, and Kinsey describes seeing a burlesque show in one of the
                         letters reproduced below. There is no other evidence that Kinsey and Voris
                         were anything more than colleagues and friends who discussed sex with each
                              
                              6[Alfred C. Kinsey?], "Ralph
                                   Voris," c. 1940, typescript, folder 1, Ralph Voris File,
                                   Alfred C. Kinsey Correspondence Collection, Kinsey Institute
                                   Archives.
                              7James H. Jones, Alfred C.
                                   Kinsey: A Public/Private Life (New York, 1997),
                                   272.
                         
                          other. As Kinsey's interest in
                         studying sexual behavior scientifically grew, the mention of sex in his
                         letters became more about his findings than about his own experiences.
                    The letters from Kinsey to Voris, along with one letter from former graduate
                         student Herman Spieth addressed to Voris and the "Soaks"
                         (Kinsey's other former graduate students), demonstrate that
                         Kinsey's defense of taxonomic research at the expense of laboratory
                         genetics did not elicit strong support in the evolutionary science
                         community, as he claimed to Voris. While Kinsey bragged to Voris about the
                         good reception he received from his fellow evolutionary scientists for Origin of Higher Categories in Cynips, Spieth wrote to
                         Voris that Kinsey's work had not been well received by Spieth's
                         working group at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. In the
                         late 1930s, evolutionary scientists were beginning to synthesize taxonomy,
                         genetics, and paleontology. That blending of methods and fields -- which
                         became the intellectual movement known as the modern or evolutionary
                         synthesis -- ran contrary to Kinsey's long-time prioritization of
                         taxonomy and observation.8
                    While Kinsey continued to publish his gall wasp research until 1942, he never
                         again resumed it with the same level of time and attention after
                         commencing his human sex research.9 In one letter, he
                         told Voris about some size correlations between the body parts of the same
                         species collected in the same locations after a ten-year time difference,
                         but he did not pursue those findings. He also never published on the genus
                              Xystoteras as he told Voris he would. While his
                         taxonomic training and knowledge of evolution were evident in his sex
                         research, he did not return to full-time evolutionary studies after
                         beginning his work on human sexuality. As the evolutionary synthesis
                         developed through the mid-1940s, there was little room for pure taxonomers
                         who were not 
                              8The scholarship on the evolutionary
                                   synthesis is growing. For examples, see Joe Cain and Michael
                                   Ruse, eds., Descended from Darwin: Insights into the
                                        History of Evolutionary Studies, 1900-1970,
                                   Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 99, part 1
                                   (Philadelphia, Pa., 2009); Joe Cain, "Rethinking the
                                   Synthesis Period in Evolutionary Studies," Journal of the History of Biology, 42 (November 2009),
                                   621-48; Alan C. Love, "Marine Invertebrates, Model
                                   Organisms, and the Modern Synthesis: Epistemic Values, Evo-Devo,
                                   and Exclusion," Theory of Biosciences, 148
                                   (2009), 19-42; Vassiliki Betty Smocovitis, Unifying
                                        Biology: The Evolutionary Synthesis and Evolutionary
                                        Biology (Princeton, N. J., 1996); Joseph Allen Cain,
                                   "Common Problems and Cooperative Solutions: Organizational
                                   Activity in Evolutionary Biology, 1936-1947," Isis, 84
                                   (March 1993), 1-25.
                              9;Alfred C. Kinsey, "Seasonal Factors
                                   in Gall Wasp Distribution," Biological
                                        Symposia, 6 (1942), 167-87; Alfred C. Kinsey,
                                   "Isolating Mechanisms in Gall Wasps," ibid.,
                                   251-69.
                         
                          interested in pursuing laboratory-based
                         genetic research.10 Kinsey valued his own methodology
                         too highly to accede to that of evolutionary science and compromise his
                         intensive focus on taxonomic, observation-based scientific methods. The
                         Voris correspondence suggests that Kinsey's shift in research focus
                         was due in part to his discovery of an open field for research -- human
                         sexuality -- in which he could utilize his favored method of
                         scholarship.
                    These letters are an excellent source for Kinsey's thoughts as he
                         transitioned to human sex research. Kinsey did not write an autobiogra
                         phy, and these personal letters to Voris show Kinsey's increasing
                         enthusiasm for and interest in sex research between 1938 and 1940. They
                         narrate his journey from co-teaching a marriage course at IU, to
                         discovering that students were willing to talk to him about their sex
                         lives, to finding that others -- particularly members of homosexual
                         communities in Chicago -- would talk to him about their sex lives in-depth
                         as well. Kinsey's growing excitement about the possibilities of his
                         sex research is clear, especially as he began to interview men and women
                         outside of Bloomington. Aside from Voris, Kinsey had no other
                         correspondents whom he trusted with personal thoughts on his research. He
                         made no other reflections of equal depth and intimacy about his work that
                         survive.
                    Following Voris's death, Kinsey took custody of his book and beetle
                         collections, at Geraldine's request. He sold the books, and donated
                         the insects to the Illinois State Natural History Survey Division three
                         months before his own death. He and Geraldine continued sporadic cor
                         respondence through 1956.11 She returned to Kinsey the
                         letters that he had written to her husband, and thus provided this unique
                         and useful resource for understanding Kinsey's transition from
                         entomological to sexological research.
                    
                         A NOTE ON THE SCOPE OF THE COLLECTION AND ON EDITING

                         Voris's file in the Kinsey Correspondence Collection has 166 total
                              pieces. There are 132 letters between Kinsey and Ralph Voris. The
                              remaining 34 pieces are letters between Kinsey and Geraldine Voris
                              (before and after Ralph's death), letters from those interested
                              in buying 
                                   10Cain, "Common Problems and
                                        Cooperative Solutions," 18-19.
                                   11Alfred C. Kinsey to Geraldine Voris,
                                        September 14, 1940; Kinsey to Geraldine Voris, October 9,
                                        1940; Kinsey to Geraldine Voris, May 11, 1956; all folder 2,
                                        Voris File.
                              
                               Ralph's beetle collection,
                              and letters between Voris and his friends. The selections below cover
                              eleven years of the sixteen-year correspondence between Kinsey and
                              Voris in the file (1930-1940). Spelling and typing errors are left
                              intact and followed by [sic]. Some paragraphs or
                              sentences were removed when discussing internal matters at Southwest
                              Missouri State. Points of clarification are included in brackets or
                              footnotes. Parentheses are in the original documents.

                         
                                   
                                        
                                             March 19,
                                                  1930
                                             Dear Dr. Kinsey:
                                             Did I get it ["The Gall Wasp Genus
                                                  Cynips"] ! And what a volume! The first part
                                                  took me back to our talks. My only regret is that
                                                  there was not more of it and we cannot get those
                                                  that need the information most to read what there
                                                  is of it. You are to be congratulated on this
                                                  addition to our knowledge, on the origon [sic] of species and your correlation
                                                  of laboratory genetics with this immence [sic] amount of field work. The paper
                                                  has done more to stimulate me than anything
                                                  I've done this winter. And to say that I am
                                                  proud of my small connection with it does not in
                                                  amy [sic] way express my
                                                  feelings. I can only thank you for the honor you
                                                  have given me and hope that you will understand
                                                  the deep feeling of gratitude I have that I cannot
                                                  express.
                                             Don't forget that I will be very much
                                                  interested in the way certain individuals in
                                                  Washington and those others who have been none too
                                                  complimentary take this work. If it doesn't
                                                  make believers out of them they are hopeless and
                                                  do not need to be converted.
                                             You ask about the thesis. It is coming along very
                                                  well now. The addition of new material has slowed
                                                  me up some but am about thru now with the
                                                  exception of a few drawings....I have hopes of
                                                  finishing the paper this spring and if I do
                                                  I'll try and make it to Bloomington between
                                                  terms if you have the patience to go over it again
                                                  for me....
                                             Give our regards to Mrs. Kinsey and say Hello for us
                                                  to Ann and Joanne [sic] and
                                                  Bruce. We think the Christmas cards the girls sent
                                                  us about the nicest we received. And I want to
                                                  congratulate you again on the paper and to thank
                                                  you for my copy.
                                             As ever,
                                                  Ralph12
                                        
                                   
                              


                         
                              12Voris to Kinsey, March 19, 1930, folder 1,
                                   Voris File. Donald (1922-1926), Anne (1924-),Joan (1925-2009),
                                   and Bruce (1928-) are Kinseys children. Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy,
                                   Kinsey: Sex the Measure of All Things: A Life of
                                        Alfred C. Kinsey (1998; Bloomington, Ind., 2004),
                                   67-68.
                         



                         





                         
                                   
                                        
                                             March 26,
                                                  1931
                                             Dear Voris:
                                             Ancil [Holloway] and I have spent the night in this
                                                  town [Paducah, Kentucky] en route for a thousand
                                                  miles of Tennessee River valley collecting. In the
                                                  same hotel [Hotel Palmer], mayhap the same old
                                                  room in which you and I lived some four and a half
                                                  years ago. The place is as decrepit as ever --
                                                  beneath its show of finery -- the wall paper more
                                                  black and broken, the weather as bad. We drove
                                                  down from Bloomington yesterday P.M. -arriving
                                                  here, as usual, at 11 P.M. That old road is really
                                                  good now, with a long stretch of concrete! Think
                                                  of it! I wish you were along, sir. I lecture in
                                                  Birmingham [Alabama] this Sat., and am making
                                                  spring collections to boot.
                                             Ancil insists that the Mexican trip won't seem
                                                  right without you, and so do I, tho I still feel
                                                  that the good of Staphylinidae and your future
                                                  research demands your riding them harder than
                                                  Mexico will allow. I must have passed on to you
                                                  [William Morton] Wheeler's advice, that the
                                                  research I did in the first ten years out would
                                                  determine my entire future in research. -- Well,
                                                  here's repeating that there is no one I would
                                                  rather have along, while I believe something else
                                                  would be better for you in this particular year of
                                                  grace.
                                             How about publication of the thesis. Let me know if
                                                  you are having trouble, and I will do what I
                                                  can.
                                             Back to Bloomington a week from now.
                                             Alfred C. Kinsey13
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             September 3,
                                                  1934
                                             Dear Ralph Voris:
                                             Many thanks for the two summer letters. I should
                                                  have answered long ago. I am much interested to
                                                  keep track of your doings -- the financial
                                                  affairs of your institution among them -- and I
                                                  hope they won't be financial worries much
                                                  longer. Don't hesitate to write me about
                                                  them. -- 
                                                  13Kinsey to Voris, March
                                                  26, 1931, folder 1, Voris File. "The good of
                                                  the...will allow": Kinsey was suggesting that
                                                  Voris work harder to produce original essays from
                                                  his own dissertation work on beetles, rather than
                                                  continuing to act as a research assistant for
                                                  Kinsey. Ancil Holloway was a graduate student in
                                                  botany at Indiana University (IU). Ancil DeWitt
                                                  Holloway, "A Summary of the Work on the
                                                  Gambelii Group of Oaks" (M.A. thesis.,
                                                  Indiana University, 1934). Voris's thesis is
                                                  not extant.
                                                  
                                                   Mighty glad
                                                  you got the FERA [Federal Emergency Relief
                                                  Administration] help to get the bugs mounted. We
                                                  have used a lot of it here. I had 2 extras, in
                                                  addition to my regular 2 technicians, so we are up
                                                  to date on all the great lot of material we have
                                                  been breeding. Many of the Mexican galls still
                                                  have live insects in them. One whole genus is just
                                                  beginning to emerge as it goes into its 4th (!!)
                                                  winter....it has taken a great lot of handling for
                                                  these last few days.
                                             Have spent the whole summer in Bloomington. The
                                                  worst spring drought in our history left us with
                                                  hardly 20% normal bloom in the spring garden. A
                                                  good rain early in June gave us the best June
                                                  & early July garden we have ever had. Wish you
                                                  might have seen the daylilies then. But the summer
                                                  burned off hot & dry. When rains did come the
                                                  last half of August we had lost a lot of things.
                                                  Everything, however, is now green again, and we
                                                  feel better off than most of the drought area.
                                                  Have gotten more work done in the garden than in
                                                  the past 2 yrs. put together -- hence the best
                                                  spring garden is ahead of us, if we do not run
                                                  into drought again. Following your lead, I have
                                                  adopted shorts -- nothing more -- as the garden
                                                  costume, and have the best tan ever -- more than I
                                                  ever thought a bleached blonde could have. And the
                                                  most glorious live feeling that my skin has ever
                                                  known. Incidentally, I weigh just 20 pounds less
                                                  than I did in February -- from 162 to 142 -- and
                                                  practically all that came off the waistline. Had
                                                  all my trousers let out last February, and now
                                                  every pair is in folds at the waist. I shall see
                                                  to it that something or other keeps that winter
                                                  damage off of me this year! And, would you believe
                                                  it! When hot weather came on, I went to the city
                                                  swimming pool (which my family patronizes every
                                                  day), and finding it hot as soup, I turned to the
                                                  [Indiana] University pool and -- swam at the end
                                                  of every day until school closed!
                                             [That was] the first I have been in the University
                                                  pool since you deserted me here. I shall have to
                                                  get into it a few times each week thruout this
                                                  next school year. Even as poor a fish as I have
                                                  been[, I] have been able to improve some of my
                                                  amphibious doings, and I found swimming great
                                                  fun this summer. After the Univ. pool closed, the
                                                  whole family took to Brown County days: swimming
                                                  in their unusually fine pool in the A.M., picnic
                                                  lunch, in bathing suits -- at noon -- swim all
                                                  afternoon -- picnic supper before we came home.
                                                  All three of the children are good in the water.
                                                  Anne is just too good -- beats her mother now in
                                                  every stroke. At the girl scout camp (west of
                                                  Indianapolis) which she attended for two weeks,
                                                  she was chosen to demonstrate certain strokes in a
                                                  swimming carnival, even tho no other girl within 5
                                                  years of her age was in the car- 
                                                  
                                                  Alfred Kinsey's drawings of
                                                  the classical Darwinian "Tree of Life"
                                                  (above) and of his proposed revision of it, a
                                                  "Phylogenetic Chain of Species" (facing
                                                  page).
                                                  Alfred Kinsey, The
                                                  Origin of Higher Categories in Cynips
                                                       (Bloomington, Ind., 1936)
                                                   nival. Bruce suddenly took off this
                                                  summer -- is a regular fish -- dives 5 or 6
                                                  different dives -- etc. etc. So the family has
                                                  played together, here at home, as never before.
                                                  Have had supper out-of-doors in the garden prac
                                                  tically every evening this summer -- the garden was
                                                  beautiful, the evenings cool no matter how hot the
                                                  days. And at this cooler end of the summer we have
                                                  build [sic] a stone fireplace --
                                                  with log & stone seats galore, in a hidden
                                                  spot on a new lot we bought last spring (adjoins
                                                  the old land to the south), and the kids consider
                                                  that more fun than anything. So you see the
                                                  Voris's [sic] must come
                                                  again and play with us when the weatherman is
                                                  better to us than he was last time. We are now
                                                  leaving tomorrow for a 10 day trip to the Smokies.
                                                  The family has not been there before. Only 1000
                                                  miles to drive in all the 10 days -- leaving
                                                  plenty of time to climb mountains & browse
                                                  thru deep forests.
                                             Have spent the whole summer on "Cynips and the
                                                  Origin of Higher Categories." Been headed
                                                  toward it since the Cynips monograph in 1930. It
                                                  includes all additional data since 1930 on the
                                                  genus -- have over 50 new species to add to the 93
                                                  described in 1930. Mostly Mexican, 
                                                   but a number from our 1929 Western trip.
                                                  Mexico a perfect gold mine! Two-thirds to
                                                  three-quarters of my specimens bear red labels!
                                                  Will easily have 700 n[ew] sp[ecies] from the
                                                  Mexican trip when it is all described. And the
                                                  complexes and subgenera, and even one genus which
                                                  is far enough away from Cynips in the U.S. -- all
                                                  run together in southern Mexico until it can be
                                                  established, I think, that the higher categories
                                                  are nothing but sections in a continuous chain of
                                                  species -- the divisions between the categories
                                                  purely arbitrary unless one has limited his
                                                  collecting to an incomplete portion of the range,
                                                  or unless nature has obligingly exterminated some
                                                  of the older species. There is no tree of life --
                                                  the simile should be to the creeping vine or plant
                                                  with runners. The first species of the new genus
                                                  is as closely related to the last species of the
                                                  old, as any two species are to the other within
                                                  the genus. Higher categories arise merely as
                                                  species -- by mutation or hybridization and
                                                  subsequent isolation -- with no greater degree of
                                                  difference than is involved in the origin of any
                                                  other species.
                                             Amen.



                                             





                                             Now, Mr. Man -- tell me what your staphylinids say
                                                  to all that. I am more interested in learning
                                                  whether cynipid generalizations apply to other
                                                  groups than you may realize. And especially to the
                                                  groups which have had some contact with modern
                                                  taxonomy & modern taxonomists. [Herman] Spieth
                                                  was here for a week before going -- with Evelyn --
                                                  into Mich[igan] and across Canada to the north --
                                                  and it is clear that he needs material, material,
                                                  material -- to work out any complete stories. Have
                                                  you material enough to start on a generic
                                                  revision? Can't you start, even if you have
                                                  to delay along the line to get material to fill in
                                                  the gaps. If not a genus, can it be a complex or
                                                  two? I want your judgement [sic]
                                                  on many things about your bugs. I know your
                                                  environment isn't the best -- but remember
                                                  that out of 200 on our I.U. faculty we
                                                  haven't half a dozen who are really getting
                                                  anywhere on research -- and my best friends on
                                                  Harvard faculty are forever cursing their
                                                  "poor benighted institution" (not in
                                                  public). If anything better comes along, I will
                                                  turn it your way, but I want the answers from
                                                  Staphylinidae now, wherever you are.
                                             Plans for fall field work upset. Must get this new
                                                  Cynips thing to press early in fall. Maybe 200
                                                  pages. Have 4 grad. students to train into field
                                                  work -- Lord knows 2 of them need it, and the
                                                  other two can still polish up -- and there is the
                                                  shocking news that the Mexican government may
                                                  actually finish the Laredo-Mex. City highway this
                                                  fall. If so, I fear I head toward Mexico, if for
                                                  nothing more than a month's trip. With a good
                                                  road, it would be nothing to get to Mex City in 6
                                                  days from Bloomington, and then we could strike
                                                  deep into country we did not reach before. Mex.
                                                  peso is down so it would cost only 2/3 what it was
                                                  before. Might take Mrs. Kinsey with me -- would
                                                  like to have her see the country, and fear we
                                                  would have to finance most of the trip ourselves
                                                  anyway. -- But may end up in the Ozarks or
                                                  anywhere else. If there is any chance of our
                                                  getting into the field together, I would very much
                                                  like to. It was a glorious day we spent together
                                                  last fall.
                                             Remember all the Kinseys to Geraldine
                                                  and all the Vorises-
                                                  Alfred C. Kinsey14
                                        
                                   
                              




                         
                              "'Kinsey to Voris, September 3, 1934, folder 1, Voris
                                   File. "Origin of Higher Categories" was published as
                                   Kinsey, Origin of Higher Categories in Cynips.
                                   Herman Spieth (1905-1988) was one of Kinsey's graduate
                                   students, and Evelyn Spieth was his wife. Kinsey took a trip to
                                   Mexico with two graduate students (including Osmond Breland
                                   [1910-1984]) in 1935. Kinsey was Breland's doctoral
                                   dissertation adviser. Osmond Philip Breland, "Phylogeny of
                                   Some Callimomid Genera (Parasitic Hymenoptera)," Ph.D.
                                   diss., Indiana University, 1936.
                         


                         



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             July 8,
                                                  1936
                                                  (Written on train en route to Ames, Iowa -- hence my
                                                  much-improved scrawl!) Dear Ralph: I hope your
                                                  long-taxed disposition will forgive my delay in
                                                  reply ing to your last two letters. This has been
                                                  a spring full of work -- and I really have gotten
                                                  things done even if some other things have had to
                                                  slide. Any amount of detail to follow up after the
                                                  return from the Mexican trip. Plenty of technique
                                                  [needed for] handling the new material. Bad luck
                                                  on breeding much of it, for the very sudden
                                                  arrival of low temperatures, followed by the very
                                                  arid spring & summer, has [recruci fied?] most
                                                  of the pupae. Can't be helped tho -- and we
                                                  have gotten thousands of good adults. Then I
                                                  finished the volume on Methods in Teaching
                                                  Biology. Lippincott has it in publication now --
                                                  to bear a 1937 copyright. Next I expanded the
                                                  second Cynips volume (Origin of Higher Categories)
                                                  to include the winter's collections and got
                                                  that to press here in the University. Two volumes
                                                  which have been in brew for 5 years, both
                                                  completed at last. Immediately I have started on
                                                  the next monograph -- Xystoteras is the genus --
                                                  a larger group than Cynips -- I have perhaps twice
                                                  as much material -- perhaps 20 species have been
                                                  passing as "Andricus" -- 150 species are
                                                  new. I will finish this in a year or 18 mos. at
                                                  the rate it is going -- and it will cover more ground
                                                  than the 2 Cynips volumes on which I spent nine
                                                  years. At long last I may be able to convince
                                                  somebody that I have been laying a foundation in
                                                  all these 18 years -- on which the finished
                                                  structure may now rise rapidly. While on Cynips I
                                                  had to take a year and a half to lay the
                                                  foundation of the generic rearrangement of the
                                                  whole family -- a matter of 6 months to solve the
                                                  long-wing, short-wing riddle, much time over many
                                                  years to make catalogs and orchestrate literature
                                                  -- endless technique in preparing collected
                                                  material for future study. Now, suddenly, it has
                                                  all come to a head -- everything is ready for the
                                                  new study, and I am writing thousands of
                                                  specimens and ten or a dozen new species into the
                                                  manuscript each week. That is the fruition of the
                                                  dream I have had about building for a life-time of
                                                  research. -- But it is a dangerous program if one
                                                  gets bumped off prematurely!
                                             About the [Adalbert] Fenyes collection -- I doubt if
                                                  I should buy it if I were in your position.
                                                  Material bought or bagged from other collectors
                                                  (save your own good self) had rarely been
                                                  comparable to material collected by myself. Small
                                                  series, few distribution data -- lack of the
                                                  background of the biologic conditions,
                                                  physiography of area involved,  etc. etc. -- these
                                                  greatly reduce the value of most other material.
                                                  If you are anxious to spend part of your savings,
                                                  put it into your own field work. If you bought the
                                                  whole collection, there would be next to no chance
                                                  to sell off any part. Museums, etc. prefer to send
                                                  their own men into the field -- and hope to have all
                                                  the big collections given to them some day,
                                                  anyway. I know of very, very few purchases by
                                                  private collectors. -- The library would be more
                                                  valuable to you -- wish you might purchase what
                                                  you really need out of it ...
                                             As for the Staphy[linid] distribution -- I have no
                                                  preconceived theories. Every new Cynipid I study
                                                  upsets all previous experience, so you will have
                                                  to accept the facts as you find them. Mid-West
                                                  things in Panama might mean wide distrib[ution]
                                                  (which I do thoro[ugh]ly scout), or importation,
                                                  or convergent evolution (I have a few similar
                                                  relationships), or distinct species
                                                  (physiologically) which are morpholog[ically]
                                                  similar. Gosh, man, it will be interesting to
                                                  follow your final conclusions! -- And don't
                                                  be frightened at the confusion in a beginning
                                                  generic revision. I worked 9 years on Cynips
                                                  before it finally suited me.
                                             And now for the secret -- as to why I am writing
                                                  this on a train. There is a 3-day Genetics Conf.
                                                  at Iowa State College (Ames) with [Sewall] Wright,
                                                  [R. A.] Fisher, [L. J.] Stadler, (and [E. W.]
                                                  Lindstrom?) on the program. Only 3 papers per day
                                                  -- all the rest round tables on application of
                                                  genetic data to evolution. It looks as if it would
                                                  be a very small group, several active workers, and
                                                  perhaps a real chance to question there [sic]
                                                  every conclusion and get their reaction to a mere
                                                  taxon omist's criticisms. Perhaps a score of
                                                  people there -- therefore, the great advantages
                                                  over the Christmas meetings. I am out for
                                                  information and criticism of my own findings. I
                                                  will write you again soon, with a report on the
                                                  meetings.
                                             As ever sir,
                                                  Alfred C. Kinsey
                                                  15
                                        
                                   
                              




                         
                              15Kinsey to Voris, July 8, 1936, folder 1,
                                   Voris File. Emphasis in original. Alfred C. Kinsey, Methods in Biology (Philadelphia,
                                   Pa., 1937), included
                                   an early statement on the importance of honest, open discussion
                                   of human sexuality in high school biology classes. Adalbert
                                   Fenyes (1863-1945?) was a staphylinid beetle researcher who
                                   wanted to sell his insect collection and personal library to
                                   Voris for $3000. See for example, Adalbert Fenyes, "New
                                   Genera and Species of Aleocharinae with a Polytomic Synopsis of
                                   the Tribes," Bulletin of the Museum of
                                        Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, 65, no. 2
                                   (1921). Voris to Kinsey, June 24, 1936, fold- er 1, Voris
                                   File.
                         


                         





                         
                                   
                                        
                                             Dec. 5,
                                                  1936
                                             My dear Dr. Voris:
                                             I find that I am going to be [at] the AAAS [American
                                                  Association for the Advancement of Science]
                                                  meetings at Atlantic City [, New Jersey]. The
                                                  Naturalists are to have a symposium on December 31
                                                  on the evolution of higher categories. When they
                                                  first asked me to take part I refused on the
                                                  ground that I have little to give them that was
                                                  not already in print. Nevertheless they insisted.
                                                  [Edgar] Anderson of St. Louis, and [William K.]
                                                  Gregory and [George Gaylord] Simpson of the
                                                  American Museum of Natural History are to be the
                                                  other speakers. We have had preliminary
                                                  conferences and find that we are very largely
                                                  agreed, so there should not be the fireworks
                                                  exhibit that we had at  St. Louis last year.
                                             I wonder if there is any chance of your going with
                                                  me to Atlantic City? I shall not attempt to make
                                                  the trip by car at that season, and that will make
                                                  it very expensive, but if there is any chance of
                                                  your going that would be great. Mrs. Kinsey would
                                                  be delighted to have Mrs. Voris stay with her. Let
                                                  me know soon so I will know what to do about
                                                  reservations.
                                             Yours sincerely, Alfred C. Kinsey Professor of
                                                  Zology



                                             Stenographers aside -- we should be delighted to
                                                  have a visit from both of you. We have completed
                                                  our second-floor rooms, so could take care of you
                                                  better than formerly. There is much to talk about
                                                  -- last Mex. trip to account for -- I want to hear
                                                  about Philonthus. I find a note here & there,
                                                  now & again, that lets me know you are at it.
                                                  I may get to St. Louis to confer with Anderson
                                                  about the symposium. It would be this Sat. or the
                                                  following week-end. That seems so near Springfield
                                                  [Missouri] and yet a bit far when time is short.
                                                  It is taking work to get together enough new
                                                  material to make the symposium paper something
                                                  more than repetition.
                                             As ever -- to both of you
                                                  Alfred C. Kinsey16
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                              16Kinsey to Voris, December 5, 1936, folder
                                   1, Voris File. Philonthus is a genus of Staphylinidae. Edgar Anderson (1897-1969)
                                   attended graduate school at Harvard University's Bussey
                                   Institution with Kinsey and was a plant geneticist. William K.
                                   Gregory (1876-1969) and George Gaylord Simpson (1902-1984) were
                                   members of the American Museum of Natural History's
                                   paleontology department. Voris did not go to Atlantic City for
                                   the AAAS meeting.
                         


                         



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             Jan. 31,
                                                  1937
                                             Dear Ralph:
                                             Your last letter should have been answered long
                                                  before this -- I have thought of you often enough,
                                                  Lord knows, but been snowed under with aftermath
                                                  of the second Cynips publication, the Atlantic City Symposium, several Journal articles, etc. The
                                                  reaction to the new Cynips volume is the most
                                                  encouraging thing yet -- especially on top of the
                                                  fact that it was delayed a year in publication
                                                  because of the doubts the publication committee
                                                  had about it. Perhaps neglect more than doubts. At
                                                  any rate, they held the Ms. [manuscript] 3 months
                                                  without doing anything about it, then submitted
                                                  it to a taxonomist and a geneticist for crit
                                                  icism. Taxonomist said the taxonomy was OK and
                                                  important, but the genetics unprintably bad.
                                                  Geneticist said the genetics was sound enough, but
                                                  the taxonomy certainly not in accord with current
                                                  work in taxonomy. They mussed about with it so
                                                  long I took back the Ms., put it in the bank vault
                                                  while I was in Mexico, and refused to give it to
                                                  them for six months after my return. By that time,
                                                  [Fernandus] Payne was quite [meek?] about it.
                                             -- At any rate, you have seen [Clarence H. ]
                                                  Kennedy's lavish praise. The geneticists are
                                                  strong for it -- have had most interesting
                                                  correspondence with a lot of them. [Theodosius]
                                                  Dobzhansky, Sewall Wright, [Albert Francis]
                                                  Blakeslee, Anderson, [Arthur Mangun] Banta, etc.,
                                                  etc. all quite convinced. Anderson has objected
                                                  for all these years that I had a very special case
                                                  in these bugs -- that such major mutations were not
                                                  to be expected in most groups. Now he writes he is
                                                  quite convinced that it is my method that is
                                                  unique -- that he can believe that the use of as
                                                  diverse means for recognizing relationships in
                                                  other groups might show relationships that we have
                                                  overlooked because of our dependence on
                                                  morphologic similarity. He was handsome in his
                                                  acceptance of this at the Atlantic City symposium.
                                                  A number of the paleontologists have testified
                                                  that their fossil connecting links make categories
                                                  just what I find them. Even a number of the
                                                  taxonomists are enthusiastic -- tho they as a
                                                  group offer the most objections. You are going to
                                                  see a day when taxonomic contributions will be
                                                  accepted as a fundamental part of biologic
                                                  science, sir. And I am most anxious to know what
                                                  your bugs are going to contribute to it.
                                             I am delighted to know that Philonthus is moving.
                                                  Were you flesh and blood of my own, I could get no
                                                  more satisfaction out of the research you turn
                                                  out. These other folk have a few printed pages of
                                                  my ideas, a few minutes of verbal explanation. You
                                                  and the others who have  finished theses with me
                                                  have so much better grasp of my thinking -- and I
                                                  shall, therefore, be more interested in seeing how
                                                  you react to it, modify it in the light of your
                                                  own data, what you reject, what you accept, what
                                                  you carry it on into. I spent a couple of days in
                                                  New York after the meetings -- saw Spieth's
                                                  collection, home, etc. His series of mayflies,
                                                  extensive records, etc., make me feel he is some
                                                  child of mine. Glad the NYA has contributed help
                                                  to you. [Osmond P.] Breland has help too. I am
                                                  interested to know you have gone to Nat. Mus.
                                                  Trays -- each group will have its own best
                                                  technique. Spieth has gone to double size Schmitt
                                                  boxes. The Schmitt boxes still are the best unit
                                                  for me (I get about 800 insects in a box by my new
                                                  arrangement.) -- And, by the way, if you are
                                                  discarding your old Schmitt boxes, I will buy them
                                                  from you personally. Let me know.
                                             I discovered at Atlantic City that you were already
                                                  booked for C.C.N.Y. [City College of New York]
                                                  next summer -- so I have not hurried about my
                                                  advice. It is [a] most hearty approval of the
                                                  plan. It will give you new atmosphere (hot &
                                                  dirty as New York is in the summer), and just the
                                                  many contacts you most need. Library, museum
                                                  collections, etc. Go to it. But don't forget
                                                  that the previous visit to Bloomington is an
                                                  indispensable part of it. For long enough time to
                                                  really do something! There are worlds to talk
                                                  about, scientific problems to discuss, more gos
                                                  sip than we can hope to cover short of days. Added
                                                  over 300 volumes to my own library in the last 6
                                                  months -- surely there ought to be enough to do to
                                                  keep you here a while. Our home is yours as long
                                                  as you will stay. Mrs. Kinsey will be delighted to
                                                  have as much time with Geraldine as I want with
                                                  you -- and the four of us should find enough in
                                                  common to make it a delight...
                                             On another subject -- if you get to New York and see
                                                  what I saw during the holidays, you will wiggle as
                                                  you ne'er have before -- and you may warn
                                                  Geraldine of that before you go. Burlesque at
                                                  Broadway has the most gorgeously thrilling girls I
                                                  ever except [sic] to see -- And
                                                  they stop at nothing. The G. strings to which they
                                                  finally strip are half as wide as your little
                                                  finger, and not a button wider at the strategic
                                                  spot. When the audience insists strenuously
                                                  enough, she will remove even the string --
                                                  slipping a finger in place (to live up to the law)
                                                  -- with more damaging effect than the complete
                                                  exposure of a nudist camp. Breland says it is
                                                  criminal for such shows to go on in establishments
                                                  that are not provided with side rooms where
                                                  gentlemen may change their trousers and have
                                                  shower baths -- but the audiences seem to like it,
                                                  to the extent of packing half the shows on
                                                  Broadway, not even standing room avail-  able, thousands to the
                                                  house, at least a third women. I thought
                                                  Tehuantepec [Mexico] was hot enough -- and I do
                                                  have some stories from it to tell you -- but you
                                                  will find New York more pointedly bother some. So
                                                  there -- do you want that summer job now?
                                              Kinsey17
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             Dec. 11,
                                                  1937
                                             Dear Soaks: (Fellow Soaks, Of Course!)
                                             Water is flowing under the bridge pretty fast this
                                                  fall, and it is Christmas time already. In spite
                                                  of our much laid plans, we [Herman and wife
                                                  Evelyn] are not going to be able to get to
                                                  Indianapolis....
                                             Did you see [Richard] Goldschmidt's article in
                                                  American Naturalist in which he
                                                  criticized Kinsey very severely? I might say that
                                                  several of the men in the museum [American Museum
                                                  of Natural History] who think very well of Kinsey
                                                  feel that the criticisms are justified.
                                                  Kinsey's last paper has also been criticized
                                                  by the ornithologists, particularly because of his
                                                  use of the term species instead of subspecies.
                                                  They feel that if he had used subspecies, his
                                                  thesis would be a whole lot more lucid.


                                             
                                                  17Kinsey to Voris,
                                                  January 31, 1937, folder 2, Voris File. Fernandus
                                                  Payne (1881-1977) was chair of the IU zoology
                                                  department from 1927-1947. There were four
                                                  articles published from the Atlantic City AAAS
                                                  conference panel on which Kinsey presented: Alfred
                                                  C. Kinsey, "Supra-Specific Variation in
                                                  Nature and in Classification from the View-Point
                                                  of Zoology," American
                                                  Naturalist, 71 (May-June 1937), 206-22; Edgar
                                                  Anderson, "Supra-Specific Variation in Nature
                                                  and in Classification from the View-Point of
                                                  Botany," ibid., 223-35; George Gaylord
                                                  Simpson, "Supra-Specific Variation in Nature
                                                  and in Classification from the View-Point of
                                                  Paleontology," ibid., 236-67; and William K.
                                                  Gregory, "Supra-Specific Variation in Nature
                                                  and in Classification. A Few Examples from
                                                  Mammalian Paleontology," ibid., 268-76. For a
                                                  discussion of the Atlantic City panel and its
                                                  impact on Kinseys decision to leave evolutionary
                                                  biology, see Donna J. Drucker, "Creating
                                                  the Kinsey Reports: Intellectual and
                                                  Methodological Influences on Alfred Kinsey's
                                                  Sex Research, 1919-1953," Ph.D. diss.,
                                                  Indiana University, 2008, 36-38. Kinseys other
                                                  article in this time period was Alfred C. Kinsey,
                                                  "An Evolutionary Analysis of Insular and
                                                  Continental Species," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
                                                  of the United States of America, 23 (January
                                                  15, 1937), 5-11. That article outlined some of
                                                  Kinsey's ideas on the role of geographic
                                                  isolation in species formation. Clarence H.
                                                  Kennedy was the managing editor of the Annals of the Entomological Society of
                                                  America. Albert Francis Blakeslee (1874-1954)
                                                  was a plant geneticist. Theodosius Dobzhansky
                                                  (1900-1975) and Sewall Wright (1889-1988) were two
                                                  of the architects of the evolutionary synthesis.
                                                  Arthur Mangun Banta (1877-1946) was an
                                                  entomologist. "NYA" probably refers to
                                                  the National Youth Administration, established in
                                                  1935. "Nat. Mus. Trays" are National
                                                  Museum trays, which vary from Schmitt boxes only
                                                  in size. See Roger C. Smith, "The Tray System
                                                  for Insect Collections," Transactions of the Kansas Academy of
                                                  Science, 31 (February 17, 1922-April 14,
                                                  1928), 77- 81a. Schmitt boxes are sturdy wooden
                                                  boxes with glass lids used for storing preserved
                                                  insect specimens.
                                             


                                             




                                             Have you seen Dobzhansky's "Genetics and
                                                  the Origin of Species"? I understand it is
                                                  very excellent, and have ordered a copy -- but it
                                                  has not yet arrived....
                                             By the way, Dr. Payne came through our city a month
                                                  or so ago and we had a little visit with him then.
                                                  Amongst other things (and this is strictly on the
                                                  confidential side), we heard that Uncle Alf and
                                                  the younger men of the Dept. have had some rather
                                                  serious disagreements. Most of it, it seems, stems
                                                  from the new course which [William R.] Breneman
                                                  and [Robert L.] Kroc are giving. I hope it
                                                  isn't too serious. Another complication
                                                  arises evidently from the possibility of
                                                  Payne's retirement as Head of the Dept. and
                                                  his probable successor. Apparently no one but
                                                  Kinsey wants Kinsey to have that post ...
                                             Heaps of love and a Merry Christmas, The Spieths18 P.S. Be sure to let us hear all
                                                       the dirt you gather together at Indianapolis.
                                                  We'll be interested in hearing all the
                                                  details.
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             March 11,
                                                  1938
                                             Dear Ralph:
                                             Hope the enclosed reaches you safely. It offends my
                                                  sense of rhythm in places -- so I have made some
                                                  emendations. As for its other effects on me, I
                                                  shall have to report sometime when we have better
                                                  opportunity. Tho I would suggest that you try the
                                                  thing with the  as the narrator -- same story, same
                                                   or , but  accounting for the first
                                                  person. -- Incidentally, it never rains but it pours.
                                                  To my surprise, I find one of our faculty men here
                                                  (not on the zoo[logy] faculty) has a collection
                                                  of several of these poems, used for the same
                                                  physio-anatomical research purposes elsewhere. If
                                                  you are a good boy, I may let you see them some
                                                  day.
                                             It was fine to see you at Indianapolis -- but hell
                                                  to have so little time with you. Let's hope
                                                  for something better another time. And I have
                                                  
                                                  18Herman Spieth to
                                                  "Soaks," December 11, 1937, folder 2,
                                                  Voris File. Richard Goldschmidt, "Cynips and
                                                  Lymatria," American
                                                  Naturalist, 71 (September-October 1937),
                                                  507-14. Theodosius Dobzhansky, Genetics and the Origin of Species (New
                                                  York, 1937), was one of the founding texts of the
                                                  evolutionary synthesis. Robert Kroc (1907-2002)
                                                  and William R. Breneman were professors in the IU
                                                  zoology department, and Kroc later taught in
                                                  Kinsey's marriage course.
                                                  
                                                   realized how
                                                  much of an apology I owe Geraldine for getting so
                                                  little time with her. But we must make up for it
                                                  later.
                                             Our spring vacation comes Apr. 7 to 12. Am not sure
                                                  whether to take Grad students to the Smokies,
                                                  where Mac & I should come to see the Vorises,
                                                  whether the kids should be taken on a jaunt to the
                                                  Gulf Coast -- or whether the bugs deserve the time
                                                  at home. When is your vacation?
                                             News is endless. Out of all our political shakeup
                                                  here, it looks as if [Paul V.] McNutt were now out
                                                  of the picture for President [of Indiana
                                                  University]. [Herman B] Wells, acting Pres., is
                                                  running strong in newspaper comment. Not bad --
                                                  in fact, very good as an executive, but not too
                                                  long on scholarship. We have a faculty
                                                  "Survey Committee" -- and it is going to
                                                  [the] rock bottom of everything, no regard for any
                                                  precedents -- men of my age -- consequently our
                                                  generation rides strong in this reorganization.
                                                  Payne has been away 4 or 5 [weeks] out of this
                                                  half semester. $1500 renovation projection now in
                                                  the Dpt. I have had to supervise. Bot & Zoo
                                                  libraries are combined in old Zoo lecture room.
                                                  Old Bot lecture room is now for joint use. Old
                                                  grad lab is now advanced class lab, old Zoo &
                                                  old Bot libraries are now grad labs, 2 other small
                                                  grad labs in other rooms, two labs in basement
                                                  getting real equipment. A glorious lot of new soap
                                                  dishes, waste baskets, towell [sic] racks, tables, chairs, etc. $1800 of
                                                  new microscopes on top of all the other things. It
                                                  does pay to hammer at things, and strike for big
                                                  things, instead of accepting small gifts. We
                                                  finally moved Dr. Payne to the point where he
                                                  actually went after these things -- and was
                                                  surprised to get them.
                                             Spite of which, I am not yet certain that I want to
                                                  fix my future here. If it comes out right in this
                                                  shuffle, I.U. will be a good place to stay; if it
                                                  is screwed up as some things threaten to be, I
                                                  shall be in the market for another job. Some place
                                                  where there is active genetic work, and a graduate
                                                  program that allows a better grounding for
                                                  taxonomic-cytologic-genetic studies. Perhaps we
                                                  can build that here.
                                             Man -- most of all, I want to know more about your
                                                  Philonthus, and I have concluded I shall not
                                                  unless I come to Springfield and see it. So you
                                                  are going to see us -- if you will have us
                                                  sometime.
                                             Best to you and Geraldine
                                                  Kinseyl9
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                              19Kinsey to Voris, March 11, 1938, folder 2,
                                   Voris File. The poem that Kinsey discusses in the first paragraph
                                   is not extant.
                         


                         



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             Nov. 28,
                                                  1938
                                             Dear Voris:
                                             ....These have been busy times. I wonder if I have
                                                  told you in any of my previous letters about our
                                                  Marriage Course here. Men from law, economics,
                                                  sociology, ethics, medicine, and biology [are]
                                                  contributing. I am in charge, and it has been
                                                  quite a problem to whip the faculty into some sort
                                                  of coordinative program. Student and state
                                                  reactions superb....
                                             Alfred C. Kinsey Professor of
                                                  Zology20
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             Jan. 17,
                                                  1939
                                             Dear Ralph:
                                             It was a good trip we had together, and many thanks
                                                  to you for everything in it. Sorry I have been
                                                  delayed in writing since getting back. It has been
                                                  a grand whirl to get the semester finished, work
                                                  out the arrangements for the new semester,
                                                  etc.
                                             I have started toward five hundred measurements from
                                                  a fourth locality. Been making simple distribution
                                                  curves for some of the other characters, and made
                                                  a half dozen more of the correlation diagrams. All
                                                  of them show that peculiar double drift except the
                                                  thorax abdomen set. Have had a couple of sessions
                                                  with the astronomer in the institution, who is our
                                                  best trained man in statistics, and by chance
                                                  there have been two statisticians visiting here in
                                                  the department since we have gotten back.
                                                  Consequently I have had an abundance of help in
                                                  planning the next moves. They are all very much
                                                  excited, say that the double drift is an extremely
                                                  rare thing, that it contains some mistery [sic]
                                                  that warrants any amount of work to unravel,
                                                  decide that I need at least a thousand from each
                                                  locality in order to have enough in each part of
                                                  the map to allow analysis of each part separately,
                                                  etc. The young astronomer has dropped in now a
                                                  couple of times since his first visit, he is so
                                                  interested in seeing how the thing progresses. So
                                                  I am all set up about the possibilities that lie
                                                  in the work.





                                             
                                                  20Kinsey to Voris,
                                                  November 28, 1938, folder 2, Voris File. For an
                                                  account of the IU marriage course, see Donna J.
                                                  Drucker, "'A Noble Experiment': The
                                                  Marriage Course at Indiana University,
                                                  1938-1940," Indiana Magazine of
                                                  History, 103 (September 2007), 231-64.
                                             



                                             



                                             As for marriage course conferences, my record shows
                                                  seventeen of them (all complete histories for our
                                                  records) since New Years. I enclose a summary of
                                                  the first lot of cases. Better destroy it or file
                                                  out of reach so it doesn't get about. You
                                                  have helped a lot in orienting me in the han
                                                  dling of a goodly number of these....
                                             Am sending the Licht in this package. It is a
                                                  scholarly thing. Sorry I need it back again so
                                                  soon, but keep it until you have had a chance to
                                                  get the meaning of it. There are good stories
                                                  enough in it to take some of Geraldine's time
                                                  too. If I can get it back within a couple of weeks
                                                  -- or so -- that is OK. -- Am headed to Chicago
                                                  about the second week-end in February. Will send
                                                  you the bibliography for the research material on
                                                  human sex behavior as soon as I can get to it.
                                             The best of fortune to your work, both teaching and
                                                  research. Again many thanks for the visit at your
                                                  home, and the trip to Virginia with you. The best
                                                  to Geraldine. And I am yours if there is anything
                                                  which I can contribute. Mac sends her best to both
                                                  of you.
                                             A. Kinsey21
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             July 6,
                                                  1939
                                             Dear Ralph:
                                             The journals (Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer. [Annals of the Entomological
                                                  Society of America] & N. Y. Ent. Soc.
                                                  [Journal of the New York
                                                  Entomological Society]) this week bring two
                                                  installments of your material on Staphylinid
                                                  larvae. That is great! I think I have hardly
                                                  gotten more satisfaction from publication of any
                                                  of my own material. It has been a rotten shame
                                                  that they were not out long ago -- and is, I
                                                  agree, a shame that it did not come out as one big
                                                  paper. But in many ways this publication of
                                                  several things will do you more good -- and bring
                                                  the attention and cooperation that will help. The
                                                  papers are fine stuff, sir, even if I should be
                                                  more modest over something coming from out [of]
                                                  our laboratories -- but I repeat that they are
                                                  darn good stuff, and you may be proud of them.
                                                  God, man -- I feel guilty that we have not managed
                                                  to get them out for you before this. In time, let
                                                  me have reprints.


                                             
                                                  21Kinsey to Voris,
                                                  January 17, 1939, folder 2, Voris File. Emphases
                                                  in original. "Double drift" is probably
                                                  Kinseys discovery that there were correlations in
                                                  the variation of the body part sizes of cynipids
                                                  collected in the same locations across a ten-year
                                                  time period. The astronomer was Frank Edmonson, an
                                                  IU astronomy professor who helped Kinsey with
                                                  statistics. The summary of Kinseys first sex
                                                  histories is not extant. "Licht" is Hans
                                                  Licht, Sexual Life in Ancient
                                                       Greece, trans. J. H. Freese and ed. Lawrence
                                                       H. Dawson (London, 1932).
                                             


                                             




                                             
                                                  Ralph Voris's renderings of
                                                  immature staphylinid beetles. In 1939, two
                                                  scientific journals published articles based on
                                                  his research, and Kinsey pronounced the pieces to
                                                  be "fine stuff.'
                                                  Ralph Voris, "The Immature
                                                  Stages of the Genera Ontholestes, Creophilus, and
                                                  Staphylinus," Annals of the
                                                       Entomological Society of America, 32 (June
                                                  1939)
                                             


                                             


                                             It has been too long since I have heard from you --
                                                  or I have written. This has been the busiest 6
                                                  months, I think, that I have ever spent. I have
                                                  measured some thousands of bugs and gotten a
                                                  series of variation curves and correlation in maps
                                                  that is startling. Even if I have not gotten
                                                  around to the letter writing, I think of the
                                                  decent help you gave every time I look at the
                                                  correlation maps. There is no question that the
                                                  population in each locality is different from
                                                  that in any other. They differ in range of
                                                  variation for each character, in mode and shape of
                                                  curve. They differ in correlations: in density at
                                                  diff. pts., in location of drift, in extent of
                                                  drift.
                                             The close identity of the two correlation maps we
                                                  made at Richmond is not continued thruout the
                                                  series. There are genetic -- mutational or
                                                  whatnot factors that modify the locations of the
                                                  drifts. The ends of the series are two different
                                                  genera-but there are no discontinuities -- it is
                                                  an accumulation of local differences. The only
                                                  real discontinuity comes where the High Plains
                                                  cuts between the Rocky MT [Mountains] and Eastern
                                                  forest area-and there too much of the story is
                                                  lost. -- Have you had a chance to consider local
                                                  variation in Staphys? My man [Albert P.] Blair is
                                                  getting a most remarkable series on toads -- it
                                                  includes every so-called species of toad in the
                                                  US, except one peculiar runt in Florida. It looks
                                                  as if we were getting a low-down on the nature of
                                                  species. By invitation of the eugenicists -- I was
                                                  on a symposium program on local variation at the
                                                  Milwaukee meetings of the AAAS two weeks ago.
                                                  [Carl] Hubbs & [Lee] Dice from Michigan, [M.
                                                  R.] Irwin on pigeons from Wisconsin, [Alfred H.]
                                                  Sturtevant from Calif. Tech, & myself. An
                                                  interesting time -- no adverse comments, but much
                                                  interest in key gall wasp curves. Think I will put
                                                  on an exhibit at the Columbus meetings....
                                             Then, of course, this Marriage course program has
                                                  prospered and multiplied work. In the first four
                                                  semesters we have had 100, 200, 230, 260=790
                                                  students. A few flurries with unfavorable
                                                  criticisms from older faculty who had no firsthand
                                                  knowledge -- but even that is gone. The students
                                                  would do anything for us, their appreciation is so
                                                  great. We have their written comments at the end
                                                  of each semester. Several have written personal
                                                  letters to express their appreciation for their
                                                  personal benefit. Following your suggestion, we
                                                  have tapped fraternity house gossip and find the
                                                  course treated most
                                                  considerately. The Gridiron [football] banquet
                                                  brought only one reference to it -- a reprimand to
                                                  a couple of the boys for having engaged in
                                                  biologic activities "without benefit of
                                                  Kinsey's course in connubial
                                                  calisthenics." The personal con-  ferences totaled 280 for
                                                  me alone during the single semester Feb-June. It
                                                  has given us a wealth of material by which, Mr.
                                                  Man -- I hope to prove to the world someday that any
                                                  subject may be a profitable field for scientific
                                                  research if zealously pursued and handled with
                                                  objective scholarship. We have over 350
                                                  histories now -- I will have my 1000 within
                                                  another year and a half. Gosh, I wish I could show
                                                  you these data, the summaries etc. I have
                                                  presented a progress report to our faculty discus
                                                  sion club, nearly bowled some of them over -- but
                                                  they were game and objective, and most encouraging
                                                  in their approval of further investigation. Wish
                                                  you were here to see this material. I have just
                                                  come back from the trip to Chicago -- that we
                                                  talked of last Xmas -- safe and sound -- with
                                                  eight histories the like of which is in no
                                                  published study. Again -- wish I could summarize
                                                  for you, or show you the detailed histories.
                                             What are you doing this summer? Has the trip to the
                                                  Southeast materialized? I hope so -- am not clear
                                                  whether you intend to go this summer or this fall.
                                                  It is probable that I will go back over our 1929
                                                  route, Colo, Utah, Ariz -- plus some additional
                                                  localities -- to duplicate our collections on this
                                                  variable-winged insect. Shades of the good trip we
                                                  had together then! Mac will go with me, probably
                                                  Bruce -- the girls will both be in summer camp for
                                                  part of the time, home here with Mrs. Turrell (who
                                                  helps Mrs. Kinsey) for the rest of the time.
                                                  Cannot leave until after the middle of August.
                                                  Have to be back by Sept. 15. I am teaching
                                                  Entomology and Evolution this summer (10 hrs
                                                  credit) plus the Marriage Course. A total of 27
                                                  hours scheduled class-room work per week, plus
                                                  more than that in individual conferences. But I
                                                  thrive, nevertheless. -- what with a half day Sat.
                                                  & the whole day Sunday in the garden. Wish the
                                                  Vorises could see the garden now. It has rained
                                                  abundantly this year, everything luscious green --
                                                  the day-lilies giving more color now than the
                                                  irises in their season. We have acquired the lot
                                                  to the West of us -- a hold-up financially, but
                                                  we at least know that no one can build close to
                                                  us. Planted 250 shrubs & trees on the new
                                                  place this year.
                                             The material from Paris-Portugal is finally
                                                  arriving. You said you wanted to see it -- I am
                                                  sure you will. So come when you can -- you and
                                                  Geraldine. Hope she is well, your year has not
                                                  been too grueling -- and the best to both of
                                                  you.
                                             Kinsey22
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                              22Kinsey to Voris, July 6, 1939, folder 2,
                                   Voris File. Emphases in original. Ralph Voris, "The Immature
                                   Stages of the Genera Ontholestes, Creophilus, and
                                   Staphylinus," Annals of the
                         




                         




                         
                                   
                                        
                                             [October
                                                  1939]
                                             Dear Ralph:
                                             We too were much disappointed that we did not see
                                                  you both in Springfield when we passed thru in
                                                  September. Thanks for the nice letter, with its
                                                  cordial wishes from both you and Geraldine. Do
                                                  wish we could see more of each other. Seems as if
                                                  we get busier every year -- with the last year the
                                                  busiest I have ever had.
                                             I have kept the cynipid work going, tho it has
                                                  slowed because of the other research problem. Have
                                                  measured more bugs since you helped me on the
                                                  first correlation maps last Christmas from more
                                                  localities -- and made many more correlations.
                                                  Latest development is the startling discovery that
                                                  every single character (head
                                                  width, body length, wing variation, leg colors,
                                                  etc., etc.) is correlated with every other. What are the mechanisms? I
                                                  think the geneticist assumption that nothing but
                                                  genic correlation mechanisms can be involved is
                                                  not better than the suggestion for an
                                                  embryonic-physiologic correlation mechanism. What
                                                  are the evolutionary implications?
                                             The Marriage Course has taken some time to manage --
                                                  but infinitely more in connection with the
                                                  personal conferences. Could never have afforded
                                                  that time if it had not been the source of a
                                                  research project that grows constantly more
                                                  exciting. I had about 75 histories when you were
                                                  East last Xmas. Now have about 570 -- which means
                                                  we will have accumulated over 500 in the year from
                                                  Xmas to Xmas. Average 1 1/2 hr. each -- some 3 hr.
                                                  or more -- so you can see where some of my time has gone. It is the most
                                                  complete exhaustive record ever had on single
                                                  individuals, and already 2 1/2 times as much in
                                                  quantity as the best published study has. While
                                                  agreeing with previous studies as far as they go,
                                                  our data go much further. Since we are getting
                                                  entirely new types of histories and still new
                                                  slants on interpretations, as we get additional
                                                  histories, it becomes clear that we need many
                                                  more before we have begun to top the true study of
                                                  human sexual behavior. Will get my first thousand
                                                  men in another year or so, when I will publish the
                                                  first findings. The 
                                                  Entomological Society of
                                                  America, 32 (June 1939), 288-300. Albert P
                                                  "Pat" Blair was a graduate student in
                                                  zoology at IU. Carl Hubbs (1894-1979) was the
                                                  curator of fish at the Museum of Zoology at the
                                                  University of Michigan. Lee Dice (1887-1977) was
                                                  the director of the University of Michigan
                                                  Laboratory of Mammalian Genetics. M. R. Irwin was
                                                  a geneticist studying cattle and pigeons at the
                                                  University of Wisconsin. Alfred H. Sturtevant
                                                  (1891-1970) was a geneticist in Morgan's Drosophila (fruit fly) research
                                                  laboratory. The nature of "the material from
                                                       Paris-Portugal" is unknown.
                                                  
                                                   thousand women
                                                  will be accumulated a bit more slowly. Our records
                                                  are on much better and fuller forms than the cards
                                                  you saw, and the whole thing in a form that has
                                                  convinced the several psychologists, psychia
                                                  trists, sociologists, etc., who have looked over
                                                  the set-up. We will prove to
                                                  these social scientists that a biological
                                                  background can help in interpreting social
                                                  phenomena. Wish so much that you could go over
                                                  this material with me. You are among the very, very few individuals to whom I
                                                  can ever tell all of the
                                                  story -- the part that has too much dynamite to get
                                                  into even the most objective scientific print.
                                                  Your reactions would mean much to me -- as your
                                                  common sense advice has so often before. So this
                                                  is one reason I wish you were going to Columbus
                                                  with me this Xmas.
                                             Are you coming East or not? And if so, does
                                                  Geraldine plan to go with you -- or do you and I
                                                  go again? Hotels are rare in Columbus, and we will
                                                  have to make reservations as soon as possible if
                                                  you are coming. Hope you are.
                                             Among the other incidentals to take my time, I have
                                                  been made Chairman of a faculty committee that has
                                                  been appointed to work out a program in Biology
                                                  (survey course) that might be required of all students in the Univ -- all
                                                  schools. This is part of a new reorganization of
                                                  the whole institution that the faculty is now
                                                  considering. Work with this committee is one of
                                                  the most inspiring things I have done. 5 men in
                                                  such perfect accord that even minute details of
                                                  curriculum, sequence of topics, details of
                                                  administration, etc. are quickly agreed on.
                                                  [Ralph] Cleland, new head of botany, [Tracy M.]
                                                  Sonneborn, new addition from Johns Hopkins to our
                                                  Dpt., [Paul] Harmon from physiology, R. C. Davis
                                                  from psychology, and myself. Psychology surprises
                                                  me by fitting in here and there in the program
                                                  without asking for a whole block. This is one of
                                                  the many things I should like to talk with you
                                                  about.
                                             Must close if this is to get done. I'm on a
                                                  heavy schedule of appointments collecting case
                                                  histories here in Chicago -- and it leaves little
                                                  time for letter writing. I was very glad to hear
                                                  as much of the news as you gave in your last
                                                  letter. Hope to hear more later. Let me know as
                                                  soon as possible what we can plan for the Xmas
                                                  meetings. The best to Geraldine --
                                             Kinsey

                                             PERSONAL [new sheet]
                                             I am not sure how much more I should put in a letter
                                                  and there are a thousand and one things to tell.
                                                  You must decide how much Jerry  [Geraldine] can take. I
                                                  have wanted to tell you more about the Chicago
                                                  H---- [homosexual] histories. Got the first ones
                                                  last June. Took me 5 days to persuade 3 people to
                                                  contribute. Now I can pick them up at 5 to 7 per
                                                  day. -- As fast as I can get time to make the
                                                  records. Each case leads to other introductions,
                                                  there are half a dozen centers from which I am
                                                  making contacts on this trip. This is my sixth
                                                  trip -- am here for 8 days this time. Am trying to
                                                  get cases in all classes, from the most cultured
                                                  and socially-economically best to the poorest type
                                                  of professional street solicitor. Am awaiting
                                                  right now the arrival of a taxi driver whose amaz
                                                  ing experience of 17 years here is already half in
                                                  my history -- all of the rest of it promised [ --
                                                  ] he learned thru a friend that I was collecting
                                                  data, came around to volunteer (gratis) all he
                                                  knew[ -- ]if there is anything anyone knows about
                                                  variety and organized erotics, he is the one who
                                                  knows it. Have the histories of a number of the
                                                  women, and men all the way from beginners to those
                                                  with active experience -- a total now of about 40
                                                  histories out of Chicago who have had first-hand
                                                  experience with a total of about 12000. You can
                                                  figure the average. Several with 2000 and 3000
                                                  each. The most marvelous evolutionary series -- disclosing as prime
                                                  factors such economic and social problems as have
                                                  never been suggested before, and a simple biologic
                                                  basis that is so simple that it sounds impossible
                                                  that everyone hasn't seen it before. Have
                                                  been to Halloween parties, taverns, clubs, etc.
                                                  which would be unbelievable if realized by the
                                                  rest of the world. Always they have been most
                                                  considerate and cooperative, decent,
                                                  understanding, and cordial in their reception.
                                                  Why has no one cracked this before? There are at
                                                  least 300,000 involved in Chicago alone. What I
                                                  would have done without your earlier help, I do
                                                  not know. For instance, I have
                                                  had to do more drinking in single week-ends than I
                                                  thought I would ever do in a life-time -- and I
                                                  still think it bitter. I have diaries from long
                                                  years -- I have whole albums of photographs of
                                                  their friends, or from commercial sources -- fine
                                                  art to putrid. Some of the art model material is
                                                  gorgeous. I want you to see it. When do we get
                                                  together again?
                                             These Chicago histories are merely extensions of
                                                  what I am getting on [the] I.U. campus. The campus
                                                  gives me a better series of incipient cases, with
                                                  all of their evolutionary significance. Several
                                                  extreme cases also from the campus, with small
                                                  town and sophisticated variations that Chicago
                                                  does not give so well. Now have a total, from all
                                                  sources, of 120 H---- histories. Also getting some
                                                  other types of histories here in Chicago -- some
                                                  interesting divorce histories. One of the men in
                                                  our Sociology Dpt. [Harvey Locke] is working on
                                                  divorce cases for a  Governor's committee
                                                  -- and turning the sexual end of the investigation
                                                  over to me. ... And I think you would be
                                                  interested in such I.U. campus matters as invade
                                                  officialdom -- even the goings on in the former
                                                  President's [William Lowe Bryan] precincts
                                                  (to his complete unawareness). Etc. Etc.
                                             The best then until we can visit for
                                                  enough hours --
                                                  Kinsey23
                                        
                                   
                              


                         
                                   
                                        
                                             March 2,
                                                  1940
                                             My dear Ralph:
                                             I suppose this letter should be addressed to Gerry,
                                                  for she has been splendid in writing me twice
                                                  recently. The letter is therefore to both of you,
                                                  but particularly to you. I wish it might
                                                  contribute something to cheering you up.
                                             Of course, I am terribly sorry to know of your
                                                  physical difficulties, though I am immediately
                                                  encouraged to know that they have found nothing
                                                  that is going to cause permanent difficulty. It is
                                                  a shame, a perfect shame, and I hope it will
                                                  bring everyone from your president down, to a
                                                  realization of what is needed to prevent another
                                                  break-up ...
                                             I have settled down almost to a constant schedule of
                                                  being out-of-town the last few days in the week.
                                                  It is the research on human sex behavior that has
                                                  piled on the extra load. At the start it was a
                                                  problem to get contributors to our histories; now
                                                  it is a scramble to find time to record all of
                                                  those that are offered. The students here on the
                                                  campus are increasingly getting the habit of
                                                  coming over. I recently had two whole fraternity
                                                  groups offer 100% [ -- ]that is invaluable because
                                                  it gives us the nearest substitute that seems
                                                  possible for a random sample.
                                             Every day mail brings requests from the outside for
                                                  conferences whenever I travel their way. Within
                                                  the past month I have lectured at the request of a
                                                  clergyman in a small town where I picked up ten
                                                  histories on the day following my lecture. I have
                                                  given a series of three lectures to a group of 180
                                                  parents at Anderson [University], and during the
                                                  past month staying over in the town for a day
                                                  following each lecture, and getting histories of
                                                  every variety from parents to high school boys and
                                                  girls. The people in the high school are so
                                                  enthusiastic that they promise me 1000 histories
                                                  there if I want to take the time for them.



                                             
                                                  23Kinsey to Voris, c.
                                                  October 1939, folder 2, Voris File. Emphases in
                                                  original.
                                             



                                             





                                             Connections at the Y.M.C.A. at Indianapolis started
                                                  me on a series of histories there, and I suppose I
                                                  could get several hundred out of that building if
                                                  I could find the time. My Chicago and St. Louis
                                                  connections are spreading like the branches of a
                                                  tree. We now have over 700 histories, and our
                                                  tabulations, curves, correlation charts, etc. are
                                                  beginning to be impressive. There continues to be
                                                  a stray dissenter among the older members of the
                                                  faculty who object to all this, but an increasing
                                                  number of the faculty are offering a very definite
                                                  cooperation. The people in physiology, psychology,
                                                  and sociology have had long sessions with me, and
                                                  are offering definite cooperation on their aspects
                                                  of the matter. How I wish I could discuss all this
                                                  with you at length.
                                             If you are taking vacations after this hospital
                                                  experience, can't you include Bloomington for
                                                  a week or two? Spring is already beginning with
                                                  us, and within two weeks our garden will be a mass
                                                  of bloom. We have over 3,000 new bulbs into the
                                                  ground last fall, and that added to our previous
                                                  plantings should give us the finest garden
                                                  ever....
                                             Gee, I wish you and I could get together for some
                                                  hours in the sun shine which we have here today.
                                                  Meanwhile, the best wishes for your physical
                                                  recovery. Take care of yourself; mind Geraldine,
                                                  for I know she will do all she can to help you
                                                  come through. Tell me what I can do.
                                             Alfred C. Kinsey Professor of
                                                  Zoology24
                                        
                                   
                              


                         
                                   
                                        
                                             March 29,
                                                  1940
                                             My dear Ralph and Geraldine:
                                             Just another note to tell you that we are still with
                                                  you and hope that everything is going for the
                                                  good. You must know that we think of you many
                                                  times every day even though my letters may be
                                                  several days apart.
                                             I realize how filled Geraldine's days must be,
                                                  and I marvel that she has written as much as she
                                                  has to me. If she wants to save time by writing
                                                  just a line or two on a card every two or three
                                                  days, it would please me very much.
                                             I have just had a conference with Dr. [Edgar] Allen,
                                                  the endocrinologist from Yale, who was on the
                                                  campus for three days. He is tremen- 
                                                  24Kinsey to Voris, March
                                                  2, 1940, folder 2, Voris File.
                                                  
                                                   dously
                                                  interested in this human behavior study which I
                                                  have under way, and immediately suggests several
                                                  foundations that would be glad to cooperate with
                                                  the resources. It looks as if it was going to take
                                                  a full-time assistant to help out on that end of
                                                  the thing. Ideally, it should be an older married
                                                  person but whether I will find the right one is
                                                  difficult to guess.
                                             I am going to have to make some drastic
                                                  reorganization of the gall wasp work in order to
                                                  concentrate on the study of the material we now
                                                  have. Without any expansion of program, there is
                                                  enough material to be studies [sic] for a long
                                                  time to come. As usual, the puslishers [sic] are
                                                  after me for text books in biology, for both high
                                                  school and the university, and evolution. The
                                                  administration has inspired our biology staff to
                                                  put on a special conference for high school
                                                  teachers in biology this summer here, and I am
                                                  having to head up that program. I shall teach two
                                                  full courses here this summer and run the marriage
                                                  course as well. The plans for the survey course in
                                                  biology for the entire University are now before
                                                  the faculty. You may understand how I manage to
                                                  fill a day.
                                             Through it all we think of you
                                                  often.
                                                  Alfred C. Kinsey Professor of
                                                  Zoology25
                                        
                                   
                              



                         
                                   
                                        
                                             May 9,
                                                  1940
                                             Ralph left us this morning services Sunday
                                                  Springfield
                                             = Geraldine.26
                                        
                                   
                              









                         
                              25Kinsey to Voris and Geraldine Voris, March
                                   29, 1940, folder 2, Voris File.
                              26Geraldine Voris to Kinsey, telegram, May
                                   9, 1940, folder 2, Voris File.
                         



                    
               

               










               





                    REVIEWS




                    "Prohibition Is Here To Stay" The Reverend
                         Edward S. Shumaker and the Dry Crusade in America By Jason
                         S. Lantzer (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 2009.
                         Pp. ix, 306. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $35.00.)


                    Prohibition is often dismissed as an unfortunate aberration in the American
                         reform tradition, led by fanatics, and doomed to failure. Jason S. Lantzer
                         seeks to correct this impression in a well-written and thoroughly
                         documented study on the life and career of Edward S. Shumaker, state
                         superintendent of the Indiana Anti-Saloon League from 1907 until his
                         untimely death in 1929. Drawing on a wide variety of secondary and pri
                         mary sources, including Shumaker's personal papers, Lantzer stresses
                         the deep link between evangelical Protestantism and American politics,
                         and the need to view the dry movement within this context. Shumaker, who
                         had earlier served as a Methodist minister in several Indiana
                         communities, is lauded as "a first-rate political tactician"
                         whose life "is a shining example of the dry crusade,"
                         illustrating "the evolution of prohibition over time" (p. 3).


                    Lantzer is particularly effective in his discussion of the intricacies of the
                         IASLs involvement in Hoosier politics, and in describing how its goals
                         and strategies sometimes conflicted with those of other dry organizations
                         such as the Women's Christian Temperance League and the Prohibition
                         Party. He also considers tepid attempts of Shumaker and the IASL to
                         cooperate with African American church groups, and alliances formed with
                         Roman Catholics. If some national Anti-Saloon leaders were lividly
                         anti-Catholic, Shumaker cultivated cordial relations with Catholic drys;
                         indeed at one point a priest served under him as IASL vice president. But
                         the appearance of the Ku Klux Klan brought complications.
                    The Klan became a significant social and political force in Indiana during
                         the early and mid-1920s, not too long after the Anti-Saloon League and
                         other dry groups had ostensibly 
                         attained victory with the passage of statewide prohibition in 1917 and the
                         implementation of the Eighteenth Amendment nationwide in 1920.
                         Indiana's adoption of the strict Wright "bone-dry" law in
                         1925 was perhaps the IASEs crowning achievement. Effective enforcement was
                         difficult, but Lantzer argues that prohibition significantly reduced
                         alcohol consumption and that "crime stayed remarkably in check"
                         (p. 3). The author needs to present more evidence to support such broad
                         assertions, yet Lantzer convincingly demonstrates that Shumaker's
                         ties with the Klan were tenuous. The IASL and Klan overlapped in their con
                         stituencies, with both organizations appealing to Protestant congregations.
                         Both supported the enforcement of prohibition, but the Klan utilized mil
                         itant and even violent tactics shunned by the IASL, and Shumaker pursued
                         his own independent political course. Lantzer acknowledges, however, that
                         "both real and imagined associations between the ASL and the Klan hurt
                         the League," (p. 131) and destroyed any possibility of maintaining a
                         constructive coalition of evangelical Protestants, Catholics, and African
                         Americans.
                    A vicious political dispute with state Attorney General Arthur Gilliom
                         involving the election of an Indiana Supreme Court justice and the
                         enforcement of dry statutes led ultimately to Shumaker's conviction
                         on contempt charges and a sixty-day prison sentence. Shumaker became, in
                         Lantzer's words, "a martyr for the dry cause" (p. 157).
                         Released from jail in April 1929, he soon fell seriously ill with a
                         variety of maladies, and died from a malignant tumor in October at age 62,
                         a few years before repeal.
                    This work should be an extremely useful resource for those wishing to learn
                         more about the dry movement, Indiana politics, and Shumaker's
                         life. It is hence a shame the book's index is so perfunctory. Some may
                         disagree with this sympathetic portrayal of Shumaker or with the
                         author's claims regarding the merits and accomplishments of
                         prohibition, yet few would doubt his contention that substance abuse
                         remains a daunting problem today. Lantzer helps us better understand
                         Shumaker's perspective, the religious culture that nurtured him, and
                         the important role that the Anti-Saloon League played in Indiana.

                    ALLEN SAFIANOW is Professor Emeritus of History, Indiana University
                         Kokomo. He has written several articles on the Ku Klux Klan in Indiana,
                         and is currently involved in an oral history project with the Howard County
                         Historical Society concerning the history and legacy of the Continental
                         Steel Corporation in Kokomo, Indiana.
               

               
               





                    The Hoosier Cabinet in Kitchen History By Nancy R.
                         Hiller (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2009. Pp. xii, 144.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $34.95.)


                    The Hoosier cabinet, manufactured and marketed in Indiana, was a particular
                         kind of kitchen furniture developed at the very end of the nineteenth
                         century and sold into the 1930s. Hoosier cabinets provided bins for flour
                         and sugar, and shelves for china and canned goods; a flour sifter was built
                         in. At waist height was a countertop on which the housewife could mix her
                         dough or prepare other aspects of the meal. The cabinets, as author Nancy
                         Hiller observes, still enjoy popularity among collectors today.
                    Hiller, who is a cabinetmaker rather than a trained historian, opens her book
                         with the general history of the kitchen and a focus on the history of
                         Indiana kitchens. In kitchens of the nineteenth century, separate case
                         pieces or built-in shelves were used for the storage of dishes, glassware,
                         silver, pots and pans, and other kitchen equipment. By 1890 practically
                         all middle-class and some working-class houses had a separate pantry to
                         add more storage. The Hoosier cabinet was marketed as a more modern
                         version of kitchen storage in that it provided specific spaces for storing
                         foodstuffs and condensed the housewife's work areas into one
                         station.
                    The author provides interesting information about the early context from
                         which Hoosier cabinets emerged. Furniture making had already been
                         widespread in Indiana by the 1830s, rooted in the variety of native trees.
                         One Indiana company produced the Wooton desk, sold across the United States
                         and abroad. Outfitted with numerous drawers especially sized for bills,
                         envelopes, and other record-keeping materials, its everything-in-its place
                         attitude was a precursor to the Hoosier cabinet. The success of the
                         cabinets was also due to the new profession of sales; salesmen traveled the
                         country with new products, and print sources such as the Montgomery Ward
                         catalog (begun in 1872) and the Sears, Roebuck catalogs (begun in the
                         1890s) spread consumer goods. The first Hoosier cabinet salesmen carted a
                         few cabinets among a wagonload of goods, but soon discovered that their
                         cabinets sold more quickly than any other product. Manufacturers marketed
                         the Hoosier cabinet as a particularly modern time-saving device, and
                         salesmen pushed it as a special gift to housewives from considerate,
                         progressive husbands. Analyzing the advertisements produced by Indiana
                         manufacturers, Hiller notices that the cabinet was promoted to women as a
                         step-saving device so that housewives would not get tired. Hoosier cabinets
                         also introduced color into the kitchen, making it a more attractive
                         place.


                    




                    The limitations of Hiller's research materials somewhat undermine her
                         aim to provide readers with the broader context of kitchen history. She
                         uses Ellen Plante's excellent book The American Kitchen,
                              1700 to the Present (1995) for the general history of kitchen
                         development, but depends too heavily on the manufacturers' own
                         records for evidence of the cabinet's popularity. Other kinds of
                         evidence that an historian might have looked at seem to be missing here:
                         census information might have supported a more nuanced interpretation of
                         class; evidence for sales might have told us how many households chose a
                         Hoosier cabinet over built-in shelves and pantries. The book has almost no
                         floor plans and so the claim that Hoosier cabinets saved steps is
                         under-supported when we cannot see where the other appliances in the
                         kitchen were located nor where the family ate their meals. The book is
                         likely to appeal to collectors or owners of Hoosier cabinets who want to
                         know more about them, but is too broad-brush to appeal to historians.

                    ELIZABETH COLLINS CROMLEY is professor of architectural history at
                         Northeastern University's School of Architecture, Boston. Her most
                         recent book, "The Food Axis -- Cooking, Eating, and the Architecture
                         of American Houses," is forthcoming in 2010.
               

               


                    Transitions Archaic and Early Woodland Research in the
                         Ohio Country Edited by Martha P. Otto and Brian G.
                         Redmond (Athens: Ohio University Press, 2009. Pp. x, 396.
                         Illustrations, bibliography. Clothbound, $59.95; paperbound,
                         $29.95.)


                    Between the middle Ohio River valley and the Great Lakes, prehistoric
                         Native American cultures flourished and transformed over time from small,
                         egalitarian groups of hunter-gatherers to sedentary farming communities
                         controlled by chiefdoms. Martha P. Otto and Brian G. Redmond's
                         edited volume with thirteen chapters focuses on a primary transition in
                         this cultural evolution from the Archaic period (ca. 8000 B.C. to 500 B.C.)
                         to the Early Woodland period (ca. 500 B.C. to A.D. 1). The major cultural
                         changes in this transition included the development of pottery,
                         horticulture, increased social organization, and earthwork construction
                         of burial mounds and circular or square enclosures. The apex of the Early
                         Woodland period has been defined as the Adena culture and was centered in
                         Ohio and neighboring states, including Indiana. Unfortunately only one
                         chapter highlights Indiana-specific research. Despite this limitation, this
                         is a good volume for readers who are interested in prehis-  toric lifeways of the midcontinent, providing
                         broad overviews, theoretical analysis, specific case studies, set
                         tlement patterns, and material culture research.
                    Many of the contributing chapters in this publication are by-products of
                         Cultural Resource Management (CRM) projects mandated by federal or state
                         agencies and funded through public tax dollars. It is nice to see these
                         investigations included in this book because they are not typically printed
                         in a public format. Instead, most CRM or "gray literature"
                         reports are produced in small volume and stored in government archives.
                         The reports are often very technically descriptive, lacking a strong
                         historical or scientific narrative that would engage the reader.
                         Regrettably, some of the contributing authors had difficulty in converting
                         their CRM reports into a prose style suitable for both professionals and
                         enthusiasts. Excellent exceptions include the works of Jeff Carskadden on
                         Early Woodland cultural landscape in Ohio, Sean M. Rafferty on the
                         function of smoking pipes in Early Woodland burial practices, and Beth
                         McCord and Don Cochran on late Adena (Early Woodland) and early Hopewell
                         (Middle Woodland) earthworks in east-central Indiana.
                    McCord and Cochran summarize their research, ongoing since the 1980s, to
                         define both regional and intra-site temporal sequences of Adena and
                         Hopewell earthwork complexes in Indiana. Their work resulted in the
                         identification of approximately 100 earthworks, but only 12 have been
                         investigated archaeologically, including the Anderson complex,
                         preserved as Mound State Park near Anderson, Indiana. The authors, going
                         against the grain of traditional interpretations, argue that late Adena and
                         early Hopewell earthworks are much more complex than previously thought
                         and that they coevolved (rather than the former evolving into the latter).
                         They also argue that each earthwork complex was a "corporate"
                         center for social, political, and ritual ceremonies that are connected to
                         local cultural identities (p. 357). Interestingly, associated habitation
                         or village sites have been mostly elusive and are still a mystery for
                         future research to solve.
                    The goal of Otto and Redmond's volume was to present current research on
                         the cultural transition in the Ohio country from the Archaic period to the
                         Woodland period, but this objective was only partially accomplished. Of the
                         thirteen chapters, ten focus on the Early Woodland/Adena culture and
                         only three highlight the Archaic period. I would recommend Archaic Transitions in Ohio and Kentucky Prehistory (2001) as a
                         companion text. Together, the two books provide a complete study of
                         cultural transition between these major periods. A final limitation of this
                         volume is the lack of a subject index, which needs to be added to any
                         future revisions and/or editions.


                    





                    DR. TIMOTHY E. BAUMANN is Curator of Collections at the Glenn A. Black
                         Laboratory of Archaeology, Indiana University Bloomington. His current
                         research is on prehistoric ceramics from the Angel Mounds State Historic
                         site, a Mississippian period village near Evansville, Indiana.
               

               


                    Democracy in Session A History of the Ohio General
                         Assembly By David M. Gold (Athens: Ohio University
                         Press, 2009. Pp. xx, 602. Illustrations, appendices, table, notes, bibli
                         ography, index. $34.95.)


                    Accretions in federal power, profundity of policy issues, and occasional
                         soaring rhetoric have made the U.S. Congress a showplace for those who
                         would understand the legislative process. State legislatures, bounded by
                         parochial interests and distended by sheer numbers, are poor relations.
                         Yet, more than one hundred years after James Bryce's comment that
                         "American publicists...have been too much absorbed in the study of the
                         federal system to bestow much thought on the state governments," these
                         "halls of the people" continue to touch the lives of ordinary
                         citizens and provide a testing ground for national policy.
                    David M. Gold's Democracy in Session: A History of the Ohio
                              General Assembly is a most welcome addition to the study of
                         the state legislature. The book is at once a remarkably thorough analysis
                         of legislative process and a compilation of historical anecdote, written
                         in straight-forward prose. Gold, an attorney for Ohio's Legislative
                         Service Commission, is in a particularly favored position to offer
                         insight into both the professional processes as well as the personal
                         idiosyncrasies of lawmaking.
                    The book, commissioned largely to coincide with Ohio's bicentennial,
                         encompasses the vast majority of its material in parts entitled "The
                         First Century" and "The Second Century." Short, but
                         essential sections on "Background" and "The Third Cen
                         tury" provide a contextual frame-work. The narrative changes from a
                         purely chronological format in the first chapter to a more thematic one by
                         the second, yet given the comprehensive nature of this book, Gold has
                         followed the only logical path.
                    In the body of the work, the reader will be acquainted with the policy,
                         procedure, and structure of the General Assembly. Complementary chap
                         ters in the two major sections allow for comparisons. Thus, chapter six
                         ("The Rules of Play") follows the course of bills from
                         introduction to committee work in the early nineteenth century, while
                         chapter sixteen ("Glasnost and Perestroika") does the same for
                         the twentieth.
                    Gold performs a decided service in examining the growing and chang-  ing infrastructure of the General
                         Assembly, making sense of a sometimes labyrinthine system that spawned
                         stenographers, pages, clerks, and porters. Professionalization of the
                         legislature is a recurring theme, as twentieth-century reformers created a
                         reference department and bill drafting services.
                    The book does not ignore the personality of the legislature, and here, in
                         fact, one can find the book's most memorable passages. Anecdotal
                         accounts of the rituals of the General Assembly (e.g., seating of
                         members, opening prayers, end of session antics) provide a flexible
                         framework for the more clinical analyses of policy and procedure (e.g.,
                         apportionment, rural-urban voting). Gold introduces us to the men and women
                         who made this body work, sometimes in spite of themselves. From Vern Riffe,
                         the powerful, efficiency-minded Speaker of the House from 1975 to 1994 to
                         Gus Kasch, a "perpetual rebellion expert" who "finally left
                         his fellow lawmakers in peace when he died in 1946," the author's
                         selective use of individuals as illustrative of larger institutional trends
                         is masterful.
                    A handful of mistakes should have been caught by a sharp editor. The author
                         denies that Jacob Cox, governor from 1866 to 1868, served in Congress. Cox
                         actually had a turn representing Ohio's Sixth District from 1877 to
                         1879. A brief citation to "Democratic governor Myers Y. Cooper"
                         belies the fact that this governor was a Republican.
                    Nonetheless, Gold has produced as close to a comprehensive look at these
                         "institutions of democracy" as is possible. Intensely readable,
                         interspersing a wide-ranging synthesis (part-time rough-and-tumble body
                         to full-time, professional institution) with highly specific anecdotes, Democracy in Session is a valuable contribution to the
                         study of U.S. politics.

                    JOHN M. WEGNER teaches in the Department of History and Philosophy at
                         Eastern Michigan University.
               
               


                    Our Lincoln New Perspectives on Lincoln and His
                         World Edited by Eric Foner (New York: W.W. Norton,
                         2008. Pp. 336. Illustrations, notes, index. $27.95.)


                    Our Lincoln is a collection of eleven essays viewing
                         Lincoln in the historical context of his times. The essays, written by
                         leading scholars of Lincoln and the nineteenth century, demonstrate that
                         there remain fascinating areas for inquiry into the life of this complex
                         American icon. In the introduction, Eric Foner identifies the theme that
                         links all the essays to Lin- 
                         coin's contemporary environment. Each author seeks to explain an
                         aspect of the "complex interrelationship between the man and the
                         times in which he lived" (p. 11). It should be expected in an essay
                         collection that some will have a stronger connection to the general theme
                         than others, but all the essayists have made an effort to tie their
                         respective subjects to the world that surrounded Lincoln.
                    The essays by James McPherson and Mark Neely provide a synthesis, with some
                         new perspectives, of their larger book-length treatments of Lincoln as
                         commander in chief and Lincoln's use of presidential power. In
                         another essay, Sean Wilentz proposes that Lincoln accepted many of the
                         political ideas of the Jacksonian Democrats. Lincoln's commitment to a
                         strong central government reflects, according to Wilentz, the nationalis
                         tic views of both Jackson and Lincoln. The idea that Lincoln would abandon
                         his strong Whiggish opinions may seem a bit of a stretch, but Wilentz does
                         place Lincoln in the political environment of the first half of the
                         nineteenth century, and from that perspective the essay is
                         worthwhile.
                    Lincoln's family is the subject of Catherine Clinton's essay.
                         Clinton provides a straightforward narrative describing the generally
                         accepted story of the Lincoln family relationships and shows Lincoln in
                         the traditional nineteenth-century domestic environment. Two other essays
                         by Andrew Delbanco and Richard Carwardine also emphasize the personal
                         side of Lincoln. Carwardine's thorough analysis of Lincoln's
                         religion provides an insightful and valuable interpretation of
                         Lincoln's spirituality. A number of books, including Douglas
                         Wilson's Lincoln's Sword (2006), have examined
                         Lincoln's use of language, but Delbanco takes a different look,
                         emphasizing the sacramental content.
                    Eric Foner's essay is a careful examination of the African colo
                         nization movement and Lincoln's engagement with this widely accepted
                         nineteenth-century solution to America's racial dilemma. James Oakes
                         also addresses the racial tensions that confronted both Lincoln and the
                         nation when he discusses states' rights and the rights of
                         citizens.
                    Our Lincoln contains a collection of worthwhile essays that
                         enrich our understanding of Lincoln's relationship to the world in
                         which he lived and the people he influenced. Lincoln's character was
                         certainly influenced by the social fabric of the early and mid-nineteenth
                         century. These essays contribute to our understanding of the atmosphere
                         and the political and social institutions of the period. Our
                              Lincoln provides both new and old interpretations of Lincoln
                         and his era by a group of acknowledged scholars.

                    CHARLES M. HUBBARD is Professor of History at Lincoln Memorial Univer
                         sity, Harrogate, Tennessee.
               


               


               


                    Industrializing the Corn Belt Agriculture, Technology,
                              and Environment, 1945-1972 By Joseph L. Anderson
                         (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 2008. Pp. x, 238.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $32.95.)


                    This is a modest, clearly written, and successful book, with a somewhat mis
                         leading title, but many wonderful photographs. The goal of the book is to
                         reveal how Iowa farmers adapted to the post-World War II revolution in
                         agricultural productivity, a revolution largely tied to new chemicals and
                         new machines. Based on survey and census data, and interviews with
                         farmers, Anderson provides a terse, brief survey of how new fertilizers,
                         insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, and new harvesting machines more
                         than doubled the output of corn, soybeans, small grains, and hay. He also
                         traces the early impact of growth-inducing antibiotics and hormones on
                         livestock production (poultry excluded). He describes the very gradual
                         shift to extremely large confinement facilities (factories) for hogs and
                         huge feed lots for beef cattle, with the attendant problems of manure
                         disposal. His focus is on the individual farmers -- on the hard choices
                         they had to make to remain competitive and, at the same time, to adjust to
                         an increasing array of environmental regulations. Over half of the farmers
                         did not compete successfully, and left agriculture. Anderson does not
                         survey the fate of these displaced farmers, or describe the role of federal
                         agricultural policies in making possible, or even in some cases, forcing
                         such a revolution.


                    Contrary to what one might have expected, Iowa farmers rarely led the way in
                         many of these shifts. They were very cautious in adopting new chemicals or
                         expensive new machines. In the case of increased fertilizer use,
                         particularly nitrogen fertilizers, they lagged behind farmers in most
                         neighboring states, perhaps because they were still enjoying the wealth of
                         plant nutrients stored up in the state's long-grass prairies. In con
                         finement dairy farming, they lagged far behind California, and in hog fac
                         tories behind North Carolina. But by 1972 -- the rather arbitrary end point
                         of this book -- scientifically informed, mechanized, and chemically sup
                         ported agriculture was victorious in Iowa.
                    The care with which Anderson adheres to his inclusive dates will frustrate
                         many readers. At times one needs more understanding of pre- 1945
                         agricultural innovations and policies. About half of his stories of
                         innovation abruptly close down in 1972, before the most significant peri
                         ods of adaptation or controversy, as in the case of new environmental con
                         straints. Anderson's account seems at times to be the first half of an
                         ongoing story. Only in a final paragraph does he mention organic farmers
                         and thus hint at another untold story -- the considerable number of Iowa
                         farmers  who rejected the new
                         industrialized agriculture, and who joined various organizations to support
                         a sustainable type of farming. Finally, in his focus upon farmers on the
                         ground, Anderson has to assume a good bit of background knowledge about
                         the politics of farming and the crucial role of governmental polices
                         (rarely noting, for example, the role of government subsidies). Despite
                         these caveats, this is a well-researched and informative book.

                    PAUL CONKIN is Distinguished Professor Emeritus, Department of
                         History, Vanderbilt University.
               
               

                    A Revolution Down on the Farm The Transformation of
                              American Agriculture since 1929 By Paul K. Conkin
                         (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2008. Pp. xiv, 223.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $29.95.)


                    The history of twentieth-century American agriculture is the story of rapid
                         technological and scientific change, bountiful production, and farm
                         population decline. It also is the story of changing agricultural policy,
                         labor problems, and racism. It is a complicated story of the interaction of
                         rural men, women, and children whose lives often were influenced by
                         national and international developments beyond their control and
                         knowledge. In this study, Paul Conkin emphasizes the transformation of
                         agriculture since the onset of the Great Depression by stressing tech
                         nological change and federal agricultural policy. He also reflects about
                         his childhood on a farm in east Tennessee and ventures into the
                         twenty-first century regarding policy matters related to the environment
                         and public health.
                    Conkin provides a good survey of technological change. He correctly
                         contends that the gasoline-powered tractor became the most important
                         hardware technology on a national scale, but does not give enough emphasis
                         to the significance of the mechanical cotton picker as the major regional
                         technology, given its unintended consequences. Conkin provides an excellent
                         analysis of agricultural policy beginning with the presidential
                         administration of Herbert Hoover. His survey of New Deal agricultural
                         policy is succinct, clear, and informative. Occasionally, additional
                         information would clarify discussions of policy matters, for example, the
                         importance of non-recourse loans for maintaining farm income and reducing
                         risk in production. Conkin's discussion of the chemical revolution
                         is thorough, his analysis of its effects on public health timely, and his
                         survey of sustainable agriculture and organic farming useful.


                    



                    The author's most significant contribution, however, is his personal
                         reflection about farm life in east Tennessee and Pennsylvania. Here, Conkin
                         cogently describes agricultural life with particular attention to changes
                         wrought by the world beyond farmyard and fields. Conkin writes about lost
                         American country life -- the necessity for farm women to establish
                         reputations with local merchants as makers of high-quality butter, the way
                         to determine whether hens remain productive layers or merit the chopping
                         block, the memory of early spring as farm families'
                         "hungry" time when cellars ran low of preserved fruits and
                         vegetables, and the hardscrabble need to pick wild fruits and nuts to help
                         meet family food needs. He discusses the life-altering importance of
                         electrification, which made hot water and indoor toilets a farm reality
                         and which brought a new and enduring term into rural households -- the
                         light bill. He contrasts the farming in east Tennessee with that
                         practiced by his sister and brother-in-law in Pennsylvania and shows that
                         farm problems are common across regions and that differences often are
                         merely matters of scale.


                    Conkin does not survey American agricultural history in a national context
                         other than to discuss technology and policy, which necessarily limited
                         his research base, and historians will find the notes rather thin. Still,
                         he tells a great deal by using numbers, without losing the reader in
                         minutia or deadly prose. Conkin is not particularly sympathetic to farm
                         ers who lost their land during the 1980s farm crisis, but he sees the agri
                         cultural policy of the twenty-first century clearly linked to the
                         Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, contrary to the opinion of some
                         younger social scientists writing about contemporary farm policy. Overall,
                         this study merits the attention of anyone interested in American
                         agricultural history as well as those who should deal with contemporary
                         scientific, environmental, and agricultural issues in U.S. history
                         courses from the secondary to the university levels.

                    R. DOUGLAS HURT is head of the Department of History at Purdue Uni-
                         versity. His books include Problems of Plenty: The American
                              Farmer in the Twentieth Century (2002) and The Great
                              Plains during World War II (2008).
               

               


               



                    Freedom on the Border An Oral History of the Civil
                         Rights Movement in Kentucky By Catherine Fosl and Tracy E.
                         K'Meyer (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2009. Pp. xv,
                         309. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index. $40.00.)


                    Drawn from more than one hundred interviews, Freedom on the
                              Border aims to complicate dominant narratives of the civil
                         rights movement by introducing accounts from Kentucky. The state's
                         small African American population -- nearly seven percent in 1960 (p. 3) --
                         retained voting rights even after black residents of other southern states
                         were disfranchised; but Kentucky's segregated economy and Jim Crow
                         laws evidenced an environment of racial oppression and prejudice that
                         limited African American opportunities and necessitated the fight against
                         discrimination and exclusion. The stories of activism compiled in Freedom on the Border reveal the variability of
                         discriminatory practices in towns and cities across the state,
                         highlighting the ways that location shaped the strategies, agendas, and
                         outcomes of local struggles and reminding readers of the array of campaigns
                         subsumed within the larger civil rights movement.
                    The interviews in this publication come from the Kentucky Civil Rights Oral
                         History Project, an initiative of the state's Oral History Com
                         mission (KOHC). Starting in 1998, the KOHC conducted interviews with civil
                         rights activists and identified interviews already in archival collec
                         tions that related to the topic. The commission sought to document the
                         breadth of the movement, and the interviews edited for this book include
                         those of elected officials, organizational leaders and foot soldiers;
                         black and white women and men; those who joined campaigns as children and
                         students and those who work for universities and state government.
                    Freedom on the Border is well organized, with thematic
                         chapters focused on desegregation of public accommodations, schools,
                         housing, political representation, jobs, and cultural expression. Each
                         chapter opens with a contextual essay before presenting approximately two
                         dozen interview excerpts, ranging from one paragraph to two pages in
                         length. Brief biographies of the narrators appear later in the book. The
                         format allows many voices and perspectives to be included and provides
                         corroboration and comparison, but the brevity of excerpts often makes it
                         hard to get a handle on specifics of campaigns or to assess the impact on
                         individuals. Many of the stories seem strangely impersonal as a result,
                         devoid of personal reflections. Five longer narratives interspersed
                         throughout the book, by contrast, allow for the telling of fuller stories
                         that illuminate how activists now 
                         understand their choices and motivations, thereby linking the personal
                         and the political, as well as the past and the present.
                    A strong conclusion anchors the book, synthesizing the interviews and pulling
                         divergent stories into a larger whole. This conclusion offers valuable
                         insights into the construction of activists' memories and the
                         relationship of individual memories to a larger narrative of the U.S.
                         civil rights movement. Contrasting Kentucky stories with those from the
                         Deep South, Freedom on the Border notes the distinct form
                         of the movement in the Blue Grass state, including the relatively minor
                         role of the church and of black political organizations. " [W]hat is
                         striking," the editors write, "is the extent to which stories
                         focus on the individual's actions without associating them with a
                         larger movement," an observation worth considering in other
                         contexts (p. 255).
                    Freedom on the Border succeeds in calling renewed attention
                         to the influence of location on understandings of civil rights activism,
                         however, the geographical focus also becomes the book's weakness.
                         Given the very local nature of many of the campaigns described in the book
                         and the variety of tactics and organizational structures employed, the
                         relevance of a statewide examination of the movement becomes unclear. It
                         is hard to know what unites these narratives, other than their common
                         origin in an oral history project. Still, the book offers important
                         evidence that race-based discrimination was not limited to the Deep South
                         and neither were campaigns for social change. Reminding readers that the
                         civil rights movement was neither unified nor homogenous, Freedom on the Border presents a strong challenge to prevalent
                         narratives of the black freedom movement.

                    DR. ANNE M. VALK is Associate Director for Programs at the John
                         Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage at Brown
                         University.
               


               

               

                    Always a People Oral Histories of Contemporary Woodland
                              Indians Collected by Rita Kohn and W. Lynwood Montell
                         (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xix, 297. Illustrations,
                         index. Paperbound, $24.95.)

                    Long Journey Home Oral Histories of Contemporary
                              Delaware Indians Edited by James W. Brown and Rita T.
                         Kohn (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xxvii, 416.
                         Illustrations, bibliography, index. $34.95)


                    These books have some common origins and themes, and a shared focus on
                         presenting the voices, personal stories, and observations of contemporary
                         Native Americans. Their connecting thread is the work of Rita Kohn, an
                         adjunct professor of Journalism at Indiana University- Purdue
                         University, Indianapolis, who became deeply involved in these projects in
                         the early 1990s. Numerous other people collaborated and supported what
                         was clearly a labor of love to make these volumes possible.
                    Always a People first appeared in 1997 and was reprinted in
                         2008 to appear in tandem with Long Journey Home, which is
                         discussed below. Its oral histories, recorded in the 1990s, reflect the
                         thoughts and life experiences of forty individuals, largely (but not
                         exclusively) of Algonquian heritage and with northeastern and mid
                         western tribal roots. They range in length from a few to a dozen pages
                         (surely many of the originals were longer; editing has tidied and focused
                         these texts to an extent that is rather hard to gauge). The voices come
                         from members of eleven Woodland nations. More than half of those inter
                         viewed are from Oklahoma, and their diversity reflects the diversity of
                         Indi an peoples removed at various times to that "Indian
                         Territory": Delaware, Miami, Ottawa, Peoria, Sauk/Fox, Shawnee. Five
                         Potawatomis are represented, all Michigan-based. The Delaware people
                         exhibit the widest dispersal, seven being based in Oklahoma, and three in
                         Ontario, Canada. The range is completed by two Chippewas (Wisconsin), one
                         Winnebago (Nebraska), and one Oneida (New York). Several speakers are of
                         mixed ancestry, both Native and non- Native, but identify through kin ties
                         and community and cultural experi ence with a particular tribal group.
                    The texts appear in alphabetical order by surname, with tribal identities
                         supplied in individual entries. This choice lends support to the gen
                         eralized concept of "Woodland Nations" advanced in the preface,
                         but also means that readers interested in retrieving, say, the Delawares or
                         Potawatomis as a group have to search for them. Given that tribal
                         identities have clearly remained 
                         important to the individuals involved, grouping them under those headings
                         would have been helpful for people interested in tracing distinctiveness
                         and enduring significance. But one thrust of the book is to highlight com
                         monalities, and in that it succeeds. Commentaries about childhood,
                         experiences of racism, language loss, survival, the importance of grand
                         parents and other kin, and success in various occupations and Native lead
                         ership roles echo time and again through these verbal self-portraits. As
                         for portraits, a remarkable feature of the book is its reproduction in
                         color of the fine oil portraits, done by Evelyn J. Ritter, of almost all
                         of the speakers. Overall, the book provides a rich overview of Woodland
                         Indian leaders and thinkers reflecting on their personal histories,
                         lives, and situations in a decade in which their families' and
                         communities' trials and losses across the centuries culminated in the
                         revival of identity and pride at the end of the twentieth century.
                    LongJourney Home came about as readers of the first volume
                         became aware of how much Delaware history was based in Indiana. The
                         editors and others worked over four years to gather interviews with the
                         descen- dants of the White River (Indiana) Delawares whose homeland had
                         become the Bartlesville area of Oklahoma, and to provide them with his
                         torical context. The book opens with a short introduction, "Historical
                         Information about the Lenape," by Deborah Nichols-Ledermann and James
                         A. Rementer; it briefly but vividly portrays how a people once based in New Jersey and parts of New York, Pennsylvania, and Delaware became so widely
                         dispersed across areas ranging from Ontario to Oklahoma. Part 1 brings
                         forward older Delaware voices with Indiana roots by means of printing ten
                         interview transcripts recorded in Oklahoma in 1937-38 under a Works
                         Progress Administration writers' project grant. Part 2 presents three
                         edited interviews conducted in 1968 by Katherine Red Corn. Part 3
                         contributes two further interviews done in 1995, and Part 4 offers
                         thirty-one "Contemporary Interviews" done for this project.
                    The book closes with an Indiana focus, offering a "Roundtable Dis
                         cussion on the Lenape Program at Conner Prairie Living Museum, Fishers,
                         Indiana," in which those involved with the museum reflect on the con
                         tent and significance of the museum's Delaware educational and
                         cultural work with schoolchildren and the general public. Their
                         contribution builds on the fact that several of the Oklahoma Delawares
                         interviewed in the book refer to the museum, having visited it to help in
                         the programming and rebuild historical connections, and for their own
                         interest. Another public offering related to this book should be
                         mentioned; in 2003, a video documentary entitled Long Journey
                              Home was created and shown widely on public television.
                    These two books, taken together, fulfill their goals very well and  offer much insight into the experi
                         ences and views of current generations of Native Americans from the
                         Midwest to Oklahoma. Long Joumrney Home, with its
                         sharpened focus on Delaware people, moves beyond the construct of
                         "Woodland Nations" to show that while Delawares have inter
                         married widely with others and are kin to many, a distinct tribal identity
                         endures at the core of people's lives, through a strong historical
                         sense and cultural awareness transmitted through families from ancestors
                         and grandparents, and often retrieved through renewed community bonds that
                         may reach across long distances. The editors say that their intent
                         throughout "has been to bring honor to all indigenous people while
                         enabling one group to emerge as a multi-dimensional, multi-facted soci
                         ety" (p. xvii). Similar volumes might well be done for each of the
                         other "Woodland Nations" whose voices speak in Always a People.

                    JENNIFER S. H. BROWN is Professor, Department of History, and Director
                         of the Centre for Rupert's Land Studies, at the University of
                         Winnipeg, Canada. She has published widely on Northern Algonquian and Metis
                         history and the fur trade, and particularly on Ojibwe documentary and
                         oral history from the Berens River region in Manitoba and northwestern
                         Ontario.
               
          

          
               


               

               

          
     
