
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 33, Issue 2, pages 119-259. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:33+issue:2+year:1937&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana Counties and Townships*
            
            CLYDE F. SNIDER
            
            THE NORTHWEST TERRITORY
            The present system of county and township government in Indiana has its antecedents in the local
                    institutions established during the period of territorial government in the Old Northwest. By the
                    terms of the Ordinance of 1787, the Governor of the Northwest Territory was charged with setting up
                    proper divisions for the execution of civil and criminal process, and, as circumstances might
                    require, with laying out those parts of the district in which the Indian titles had been
                    extinguished into counties and townships, subject to such alterations as might subsequently be made
                    by the legislature.1 Acting under this authorization, Governor St. Clair, in
                    July, 1788, set up 
                        Washington County
                    , comprising about one-half of the present state of 
                        Ohio
                    . The establishment of other counties soon followed, 
                        Hamilton
                    , St. Clair, and 
                        Knox
                     being organized in 1790, 
                        Randolph
                     in 1795, and 
                        Wayne
                     in 1796.2 During the period while the area comprising the present
                    state of Indiana was included in the Northwest Territory, new counties were regularly erected and
                    county boundaries altered by executive proclamation, but instances were not entirely wanting in
                    which the legislature exercised its prerogative of changing the boundaries fixed by the Governor.3
            
            
               
                  * This article is an adaptation of the introductory chapter in
                        a general study of county and township government in the state of Indiana which was submitted as
                        the writer's doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                            Illinois
                         in 1936. A Bucceeding chapter of the Etudy, treating of the nature and functions of
                        the present county governing boards, may be found in the Indiana Law Journal
                        for April, 1937.
               
                  1
                        Code of the Laws of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , 1935, xxiii.
               
                  2
                        Journal of Executive Proceedings of the Territory Northwest of the River
                                Ohio, 178–803 (Clarence Edwin Carter, ed., The
                            Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , vol. III, pt. V, 
                            Washington
                        , 1934), 17–79, 29–95, 30–08, 213, 441, 447. See
                        also John A Fairlie, Town and County Government in 
                                Illinois
                             (Report of the Joint Legislative Committee, 47th General Assembly of 
                            Illinois
                        , vol. II, 
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , 1913), 26.
               
                  3 For an act of 1799 altering the boundary between the counties of 
                            Jefferson
                         and 
                            Washington
                        , see Theodore Calvin Pease, ed., The Laws of the Northwest Territory,
                            178–800 (Collections of the 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library, vol. XVII, 
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  ,
                        1925), 506.
            
            
            The region now constituting Indiana was included in 
                        Knox County
                    , which was created by proclamation of Acting Governor Sargent on June 20, 1790. As
                    originally constituted, 
                        Knox County
                     included, in addition to present Indiana, substantial parts of the present states of
                            
                  Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Michigan
                    .4 However, by subsequent proclamations creating 
                        Wayne County
                     and enlarging 
                  Hamilton County, Knox County
                was reduced to embrace only present Indiana,
                    less the northeast and southeast corners, together with a part of eastern 
                        Illinois
                    .5
            
            The Ordinance of 1787 provided that the Governor, prior to the organization of the General
                        Assembly,6 should "appoint such magistrates, and other civil
                    officers, in each county or township, as he shall find necessary for the preservation of the peace
                    and good order in the same."7 When the Governor and Judges of the
                    territory met in their legislative capacity, they gave prompt attention to the organization of local
                    government, their first step in this direction being the establishment of a system of local courts.
                    Legislation adopted in 1788 provided for justices of the peace, a court of quarter sessions, a court
                    of common pleas, and a court of probate, in each county.8 The Governor was
                    directed to appoint "a competent number" of justices of the peace in each county.
                    The justices were authorized, individually, to hear and determine "petit crimes and
                    misdemeanours, wherein the punishment shall be by fine only, and not exceeding three
                        dollars."9 Collectively, the justices of a particular county
                    constituted the court known as the general quarter sessions of the peace and possessing general
                    criminal jurisdiction within the county in all cases where the punishment "doth not extend
                    to life, limb, imprisonment for more than one year, or forfeiture of goods and chattels, or lands
                    and tenements."10 The court of 
                  
                     4 Logan Esarey. History of Indiana (2 vols., 2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1915, 1918), vol. I, 137. For maps showing the original boundaries of 
                                Knox County
                             and subsequent changes, see George Ponce and Nellie C. Armstrong. Indiana Boundaries-Territory. State, and County (Indiana Historical Collections,
                            vol. XIX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 515 ff.
                  
                     5 Pence and Armstrong, op. cit., 51–19.
                  
                     6 From the organization of the Northwest Territory until 1799, the
                            territorial legislature consisted of the appointive Governor and Judges, who were charged
                            with adopting for the territory such laws of the original states as they might deem
                            necessary and suited to local conditions. The first elective General Assembly in the
                            territory met in 1799. Likewise, in Indiana Territory, the Governor and Judges served in a
                            legislative capacity until the meeting of the first General Assembly in 1805.
                  
                     7
                            Code of the Lawn of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 1935. xxiii.
                  
                     8 Pease, op. cit., –. –0.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 6.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid.
               
                     common pleas, a court of record, consisted of not less than
                    three nor more than five judges appointed by the Governor, and possessed general civil jurisdiction
                    within the county. Two terms of the court were held annually, and individual judges were authorized
                    to hear and determine actions concerning debts of not to exceed five dollars.11
                    One probate judge was to be appointed in each county, with authority to record last wills and
                    testaments, grant letters testamentary and letters of administration, and perform all other matters
                    pertaining to the probate office except the rendering of definitive sentences and final decrees. For
                    the performance of functions of the latter type, the probate judge was to call two common pleas
                    judges of the county to sit with him. Four regular sessions of probate court were held each year,
                    and special sessions as required.
            By an act of 1795, the justices of the quarter sessions in each county were authorized to hold an
                    orphans' court with broad supervisory powers over the estates of orphans and minors in the
                    hands of guardians, trustees, executors, or administrators. The orphans' court was
                    authorized to appoint guardians for orphans and minors and to apprentice minors, on request of their
                    executors, administrators, or guardians, "to trades, husbandry, or other
                        employments."12
            
            Of these various local courts, that of the quarter sessions is of particular interest in a study of
                    county government since the justices in quarter sessions not only acted as a judicial tribunal for
                    the trial of criminal cases but also served as the central administrative body of the county.13 Although the functions of the court of quarter sessions as the governing body
                    of the county varied with the enactment, amendment, and repeal of numerous statutes concerning such
                    duties, the following may be mentioned as indicating their general nature: ordering, upon proper
                    petition, the opening of public highways and the vacating of existing roads; appointment of 
                  
                     11 By a law of 1790, repealed in 1796, the number of common pleas
                            judges in each county was fixed at not less than three nor more than seven, and the number
                            of terms of the court increased from two to four annually. A law of 1795 provided for the
                            appointment in each county of "a competent number" of common pleas
                            justices, any three or more of whom might hold court, and for quarterly sessions thereof.
                            Pease, op. cit., 8–7. 15–60, 26–57.
                  
                     12 Pease, op. eit., 18–88. By another law
                            of 1796. a circuit court consisting of one or more judges of the General Court was
                            established in certain counties to try issues of fact joined in the General Court in cases
                            removed from the respective counties. Ibid., 15–60.
                  
                     13 Administrative duties were occasionally conferred upon the court of
                            common pleas. Thus, by a law of 1792, that court was charged with making plans for the
                            erection of the courthouse and jail and appointing commissioners to superintend the
                            construction. Pease, op eit., 7–9.
               
                     highway supervisors in the various townships; fixing of rates
                    to be charged by ferries; entering into contracts, on behalf of the county, for the building or
                    repair of the courthouse, the jail, or county bridges, and appointing persons to superintend such
                    building or repair; recommending persons to be licensed as innkeepers and tavern-keepers;
                    appointment of commissioners or "listers" to list property subject to taxation;
                    inquiring into the condition of the prisons of the county and taking necessary measures to insure
                    that such prisons should be adequate and sanitary; providing for the erection of a pound for the
                    exhibition of stray livestock and appointing a keeper of such pound; and dividing the county into
                    townships and appointing township clerks, constables, and overseers of the poor.14
            
            The powers of the quarter sessions with respect to finance varied with the enactment and repeal of
                    successive statutes. Under the terms of an act of 1792, the quarter sessions made and certified to
                    the Governor and Judges an annual estimate of the amount necessary to defray the expenses of the
                    county government for the ensuing year; the approval of the estimates and making of the tax levy
                    were, however, reserved to the Governor and Judges acting as a territorial Legislature. An act of
                    1795 vested the control of county finance in three county commissioners appointed by the court of
                    quarter sessions and assessors elected annually by the voters of the respective townships. These
                    commissioners and assessors, meeting jointly, allowed claims against the county, fixed the sums
                    necessary for carrying on the county business, and levied taxes therefor. Constables were made
                    "listers" of persons and property for taxing purposes, individual assessments
                    being made by the township assessors on the basis of the constables' lists. A collector of
                    assessments was appointed in each township by the commissioners and assessors.15
            
            The General Assembly of the Northwest Territory, at its first session, in 1799, established in each
                    county a board of county commissioners with authority to control the fiscal affairs of the county
                    subject to supervision by the court of quarter sessions. This board consisted of three members
                    appointed 
                  
                     14 Pease, op. cit., 3–1, 6–6,
                            7–7, 8–4, 19–97, 35–60, 36–76,
                            45–94. Upon recommendation of the court of quarter sessions, licenses for the
                            keeping of inns and taverns were issued, from 1792 to 1795 by "commissioners for
                            granting licenses" appointed by the Governor in each county, and after 1795 by the
                            Governor himself.
                  
                     15 Pease, op. cit., 6–3.
                            20–16.
               
                     by the quarter sessions, one member being appointed annually
                    for a three-year term. It was authorized to audit and allow claims against the county, subject to
                    appeal to the quarter sessions; it levied county taxes, subject to approval by the quarter sessions,
                    and appointed a collector of county taxes.16 This board of county commissioners,
                    which functioned in what is now Indiana from 1799 to 1803,17 seems to be the
                    earliest prototype in this area of the present board of county commissioners. It is to be noted,
                    however, that this early board was an extremely weak body with little authority which it could
                    exercise on its own responsiblity, its members being appointed by and subject to the supervision of
                    the court of quarter sessions.
            In addition to the various agencies already discussed, there were appointed by the Governor in each
                    county a sheriff, coroner, treasurer, and recorder, with functions quite similar to those performed
                    by the corresponding officials at the present time.18 Fence viewers, whose duty
                    it was to pass upon the legality of fences and to apportion among the parties concerned, in case of
                    dispute, the cost of partition fences, were appointed by the court of quarter sessions in each
                        county.19 Between 1799 and 1803, a county tax collector was appointed by the
                    board of county commissioners, the function of collector being transferred to the sheriff in the
                    latter year.20
            
            By an act of 1790, the court of quarter sessions in each county was directed to divide the county
                    into townships, "having due regard to the extent of the country, and number of inhabitants
                    residing within the same", and to subdivide such townships from time to time as the
                    interest and convenience of the inhabitants might require. The court of quarter sessions was also
                    directed to appoint in each township: one or more constables; one or more overseers of the poor; and
                    a township clerk. The functions of the constables, as elaborated in 1799, consisted in preserving
                    the peace, apprehending criminals and bringing them to justice, suppressing riots and unlawful
                    assemblies, and serving warrants, writs, and other process. Under the act of 1790, township
                    overseers of the poor 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 47–94.
                  
                     17 The act of 1799 was repealed in Indiana Territory in 1808. Francis
                            S. Phil-brick, ed., The Laws of Indiana Territory, 180–809
                            (Collections of the luinois stats Historical Library, vol. XXI.
                                    
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1980), 6–1.
                  
                     18 Pease, op. cit., –, 2–5,
                            6–9, 19–01, 49–96.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 23–37.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 47–94; Philbrick, op. cit.,
                            6–1.
               
                     were merely charged with the duty of investigating needy
                    persons and families and reporting to a justice of the peace such as they deemed proper objects of
                    public charity. Thus, relief was actually administered by the county, the justices being charged
                    with taking proper steps to afford relief to persons reported by the township overseers. In 1795 the
                    township was adopted as the unit for relief purposes, the justices of the peace, however, retaining
                    supervisory powers. Two overseers were to be appointed in each township and were charged with
                    levying the township poor rate with the approval of any two justices of the peace of the county. The
                    overseers might provide a poorhouse for the care of the indigent persons of the township, but were
                    allowed to grant relief to a poor person only after the latter had procured an order therefor from
                    two justices of the peace. With the approval of two justices, the overseers might bind out poor
                    children as apprentices. A law enacted in 1799 directed the township overseers to farm out the poor
                    to the lowest bidders for their support. The township clerk was charged with recording marks and
                    brands employed by inhabitants of the township for distinguishing their livestock, and with
                    recording and advertising a description of all estrays reported to him. By an act of 1792, the court
                    of quarter sessions was directed to appoint "a proper number" of highway
                    supervisors in each township, whose duty it should be to lay out new highways upon order of the
                    court and to keep the highways of the township in proper, repair. Beginning in 1799, fence viewers
                    were appointed in the various townships instead of for the county at large, three such officials
                    being appointed in each township by the court of quarter sessions. With the exception of the clerk,
                    who served during good behavior, township officers were appointed annually.21
            
            
               Summary. The foregoing discussion serves to indicate the comparatively elaborate
                    machinery of local government which had already developed before the end of the first territorial
                    period. With respect to both organization and functions, the influence of English precedents is
                    clearly evident. In speaking of 
                        Knox County
                    , Northwest Territory, an Indiana historian has said: "There was nothing
                    striking or novel in its organization. All the common elements of the 
                        English county
                    
                    
                  
                     21 Pease, op. cit., 3–1, 7–7,
                            21–32, 40–04, 61–11. The office of township clerk was
                            abolished in 1795. Ibid., 25–67. For an act of 1799 relating to
                            highway supervisors, see ibid., 45–67.
               
                     government were present. The chief functions were the
                    preservation of order and the protection of the people."22 In utilizing
                    the court of quarter sessions as the chief local governing body, the organization followed the older
                    English system, which was also the contemporary practice in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    .23 In many other matters, as was to be expected, contemporary
                    institutions of various states were copied. Thus, several of the statutes concerning local
                    government were adopted from the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     code. Doubtless the influence of existing states would have been even greater had the
                    Governor and Judges confined their legislative activities to the adoption for the territory of laws
                    from existing state codes, as was clearly their duty under the terms of the Northwest Ordinance. In
                    practice, however, this limitation was disregarded and other laws were freely enacted where it
                    appeared that the good of the territory would be promoted thereby.24
            
            The functions of local government during the period, while less elaborate, were quite similar to
                    those of the present day, the most important being the preservation of order, the administration of
                    justice, the recording of legal documents, the maintenance of highways, and the relief of the poor.
                    One significant difference from present-day practice in the matter of organization, however, should
                    be noted, viz., that, apparently with the single exception of the township assessor during the years
                    from 1795 to 1799, all local officers were appointive rather than elective. This applies to both
                    county and township officers, the former being appointed, in most instances, by the Governor, and
                    the latter by the county court of quarter sessions.
            It should also be noted that the township, during the period under consideration, was in no true
                    sense of the word a unit of local self-government, but rather a mere administrative area for the
                    purpose of carrying on certain local functions under county supervision. It possessed no independent
                    taxing power and its officers were usually appointed by the court of quarter sessions and subject to
                    control by that body. It was, indeed, nothing more than a subdivision of the county 
                  
                     22 Esarey, op. cit., vol. I, 137.
                  
                     23
                            Cf. Fairlie, op. cit., 26.
                  
                     24 In some instances the Governor protested against action of this
                            ultra vires character only to have his views ignored by the Judges. Cf.
                            Esarey, op. cit., vol. I. 14–43; Fee also The St.
                                Glair Papers (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1881), vol. II. 67 ft. The validity of these acts was so
                            generally questioned that many of them were specifically confirmed by the General Assembly
                            at its first session. Pease, op. cit., 88–40.
               
                     for the administration of justice, the assessment of taxes, the
                    maintenance of highways, and the administration of relief.
            INDIANA TERRITORY
            By an act of May 7, 1800, Congress divided the Northwest Territory and erected the western part
                    thereof into Indiana Territory, providing that the new territory should he governed in conformity
                    with the provisions of the Ordinance of 1787.25 With the admission of 
                        Ohio
                     to statehood in 1803, Indiana Territory was enlarged by the addition thereto of what is
                    now eastern 
                        Michigan
                    , but was subsequently reduced by the organization of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory in 1805 and 
                        Illinois
                     Territory in 1809. As originally organized, Indiana Territory included three counties;
                    of these, St. Clair and 
                        Randolph
                     lay in the western 
                  Illinois country, Knox
                to the eastward including practically all of what is
                    now Indiana together with parts of present 
                  Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    .26 During the years following 1800, successive new counties were
                    created by the subdivision of older ones, fifteen counties having been organized within the area now
                    comprising Indiana when the state was admitted to the Union in 1816.27 Of these,
                    Clark and 
                        Dearborn
                    , created in 1801 and 1803, respectively, were, like 
                        Knox County
                     before them, formed by executive proclamation.28 The remaining
                    twelve were formed, during the years from 1808 to 1815, by acts of the territorial legislature. No
                    one of these fifteen counties, however, had reached its present form in 1816.29
            
            In the counties formed during the earlier years of the period, the county seat or "seat of
                    justice" was fixed by the executive proclamation or legislative act creating the county.
                    Beginning in 1810, however, it became customary for the legislature to appoint, in the act creating
                    a county, a commission to locate the county seat, and a general law passed in 181330 provided that this should be the procedure followed in 
                  
                     25
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, vol. II, 5–9. The act provided, however,
                            that a general assembly might be formed in the new territory, regardless of population,
                            whenever satisfactory evidence should be given to the Governor that a majority of the
                            freeholders so desired.
                  
                     26 Philbrick, op. cit., Introduction, xii.
                  
                     27 For a list of these counties see Pence and Armstrong, op. cit., 27.
                  
                     28
                            Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, 180–816, edited by
                            William Wesley Woollen, Daniel Wait Howe, and Jacob Piatt Dunn (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, vol. Ill, no. 3, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 97, 116.
                  
                     29 Pence and Armstrong, op. cit., 27.
                  
                     30 Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker, eds., The Laws
                                of Indiana Territory, 180–816 (Indiana Historical Collections, vol. XX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 82–29.
               
                     the future when new counties were erected in the territory.
                    According to this act the legislature, when it laid off a new county, was to appoint five
                    non-residents of the new county as commissioners to locate the county seat. Sometimes the site
                    originally determined upon as a county seat proved to be unsatisfactory and a relocation was
                    effected. During the earlier years of the period relocation was accomplished by executive
                    proclamation and during the later years by act of the territorial legislature.
            During the period from 1800 to 1816 three changes were made in the county governing body in Indiana
                    Territory. It will be recalled that, at the beginning of the period, the fiscal affairs of the
                    county were in the hands of a board of county commissioners appointed by the court of quarter
                    sessions and acting under the supervision of that body. In 1803, however, the Governor and Judges
                    adopted an act repealing the law of 1799 which created the board of county commissioners and
                    providing that the functions of making county levies and allowing claims against the county should
                    be exercised directly by the quarter sessions.31
            
            Two years later another significant change was made. By an act passed by the territorial legislature
                    in 1805 to take effect on January 1, 1806, the local judicial system was reorganized and
                    consolidated, a new court of common pleas being established in each county and vested with all the
                    powers previously exercised by the court of common pleas, the court of quarter sessions, the
                    orphans' court, and the probate court. The new court, which was to consist of three judges
                    appointed by the Governor to serve during good behavior, thus fell heir to the administrative
                    functions previously vested in the court of quarter sessions and thereby became the governing body
                    of the county. The court was to hold six sessions annually, three devoted to the hearing of civil
                    and criminal cases and three to the transaction of county business. A clerk of the court was
                    appointed by the Governor to serve during good behavior.32
            
            The third change in the county governing authority was made in 1813. By legislation of that year the
                    court of common pleas and the existing circuit court were abolished and 
                  
                     31 Philbrick, op. cit., 6–1.
                  
                     3 Philbrick, op. cit., 11–18. By the act
                            of 1805, the common pleas judges were allowed $2.50 per day while in attendance
                            at court. Three years later, complaints having arisen that the compensation of the judges
                            was "too high and expensive for the counties to bear", their allowance was
                            reduced to $2.00 per day. Ibid., 66–62.
               
                     their duties transferred to a new circuit court. The territory
                    was divided into three circuits, each of which was to be presided over by a judge of the General
                    Court of the territory acting as circuit judge. Three associate judges were to be appointed by the
                    Governor in each county, who, in addition to their judicial duties as members of the circuit court
                    of their county, were charged with transacting the county business formerly transacted by the court
                    of common pleas. A clerk of the circuit court was to be appointed by the Governor.33 It appears, however, that this legislation never became fully effective, due to the fact
                    that the territorial judges, appointed by the President and acting under federal law, denied the
                    authority of the territorial legislature to impose additional duties upon them.34 Unsuccessful in its efforts to secure the enactment of congessional legislation requiring
                    the judges to perform such duties,35 the territorial legislature, in 1814,
                    provided that the Governor should appoint a circuit judge for each of the three circuits and two associate judges in each county. Three annual sessions of the circuit court
                    were provided for judicial business; for the transaction of county business the associate judges
                    were directed to hold three regular annual sessions and special sessions as necessary.36
            
            Apart from the governing board, practically the same county officers existed during the period of
                    Indiana Territory as during that of the Northwest Territory. To the list provided in the Northwest
                    Territory, however, that of the surveyor was added in 1802.37 The office of
                    county treasurer was abolished in 1803, the duties of treasurer being transferred to the sheriff; in
                    1811 the office of treasurer was re-established with the provision that that official should be
                    appointed by the court of common pleas, but two years later the office was again abolished.38 For a time during the period, a county assessor and a county tax collector
                    were appointed by the court of common pleas to assess and collect the land tax for use of the
                    territorial government.39 It is of interest to note that, with the single
                    exception of the auditor, all of the seven 
                  
                     33 Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., 47–81. The
                            provisions relative to circuit courts in the Northwest Territory (supra.,
                            n. 12) had been re-enacted, with minor modifications, in Indiana Territory in 1801.
                            Philbrick, op. cit., –5.
                  
                     34 See Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., "Review
                            of Legislation," 6–6.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 66, 68.
                  
                     36 Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., 51–22,
                            56–59.
                  
                     37 Philbrick, op. cit., 2–6.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 6–1; Ewbank and Riker, op. cit.,
                            27–78, 30–24.
                  
                     39 Philbrick, op. cit., 14–58.
               
                     present-day constitutional county officers (sheriff, coroner,
                    recorder, treasurer, auditor, surveyor, and clerk of the circuit court) were found in Indiana
                    Territory. Appointment continued to be the accepted method of selecting county officers, although it
                    seems to have been the policy of Governor Harrison to defer to the wishes of the local citizens with
                    regard to his selections.40 A nascent demand, near the end of the territorial
                    period, for the popular election of local officers, is strikingly exemplified by a joint resolution
                    adopted by the General Assembly in 1810. In instructing the territorial delegate in Congress to
                    procure the passage of a law authorizing the people of the counties to elect their sheriffs, the
                    General Assembly declared that "it is a vital principle in Republican Governments that the
                    people are the fundamental source of all offices of honor trust and profit, and that all officers
                    should be made amenable for their conduct to that source from which their honor or profit is
                    derived" and that "the office of Sheriff form [sic] a grievous
                    exception to this Republican principle in as much as the people hold no elective check or control
                    over said officer."41
            
            In Indiana Territory, as in the Northwest Territory, the township existed as a subdivision of the
                    county for administrative purposes. The county governing body was authorized to divide the county
                    into townships and to subdivide townships as the convenience of the inhabitants might require.42 That body also continued to appoint in the various townships such local
                    officers as constables, overseers of the poor, highway supervisors, fence viewers, and tax
                        listers.43 As a political unit, however, the township continued throughout
                    the period to be of little importance. Indeed, it seems quite likely that the territorial laws with
                    respect to the organization of townships were not always carried out in practice.44
            
            
               
                  40 Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., "Review of
                        Legislation," 2–8.
               
                  41 Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., 772. For a memorial of
                        similar purport addressed by the territorial legislature to Congress in the following year, see
                            ibid., 788.
               
                  42 Philbrick, op. cit., 25–56.
               
                  43
                        Ibid., 30–22, 34–47, 38–90; Ewbank and Riker,
                            op. cit., 30–24. An act of 1815 provided that the court
                        transacting county business should appoint annually in each township three township
                        commissioners, who in turn should appoint the highway supervisors. Ewbank and Riker, op. cit., 60–16. At times during the territorial period, the
                        statutes provided for county tax listers rather than township listers. These early county and
                        township listers, while in a sense the forerunners of our present-day assessors, had a much less
                        complicated task than the latter. Since most taxes of the territorial period were of a specific
                        rather than an ad valorem nature, the duty of the lister consisted merely in making an
                        inventory, with respect to each owner, of the land, livestock, and other forms of property
                        selected by the Legislature as the subjects of taxation. Land was taxed at a
                        fixed sum per hundred acres, but was ordinarily divided into three classes, the better grades
                        paying correspondingly higher rates.
               
                  44 See Executive Journal of Indiana Territory,
                        Introduction, 77.
            
            
            
               Summary. In the field of local government, the period of Indiana Territory was
                    essentially a period of the continuation, extension, modification, and development of institutions
                    established in the Northwest Territory. The formation of new counties continued until the area
                    comprising the present State of Indiana, practically all of which had been included in 
                        Knox County
                     in 1800, contained fifteen counties by 1816. During the period, the duty of transacting
                    "county business" was vested successively in a board of commissioners appointed by
                    the court of quarter sessions, the court of quarter sessions itself, the court of common pleas, and
                    the associate judges of the circuit court. Appointment continued as the method of selecting county
                    and township officials, but near the end of the period a popular demand for their election began to
                    be discernible. The township continued throughout the period to be, as a mere subdivision of the
                    county for administrative purposes, of little importance as a political unit.
            PERIOD OF THE FIRST STATE CONSTITUTION
            Indiana was admitted to statehood in 1816 under a constitution which contained relatively few
                    provisions with respect to county and township government.45 The constitution
                    did, however, provide for circuit courts and clerks thereof, county recorders, sheriffs, coroners,
                    and justices of the peace. The rising tide of democracy is evidenced by the introduction of the
                    principle of popular election into the system of local government. Two associate judges of the
                    circuit court, a clerk of the circuit court, and a recorder were to be elected in each county for a
                    term of seven years.46 A sheriff and a coroner were to be elected in each county
                    for a two-year term, the constitution stipulating that no person should be eligible to serve as
                    sheriff for more than four years in any six. "A competent number" of justices of
                    the peace were to be elected in each township for a five-year term, while other township 
                  
                     45 For the constitution of 1816, see William D. Owen (Secy, of State),
                                Constitutions of 1816 and 1851 of the State of Indiana, and Amendments (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895); Ben: Perley Poore, The Federal and State Constitutions,
                                Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws of the 
                                    United States
                                 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1877), vol. I, 49–12; Francis N. Thorpe, The Federal
                                and State Constitutions, Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws (7 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909), vol. II, 105–073.
                  
                     46 A president of the circuit court was to be chosen in each cirouit
                            for a like term by joint ballot of the two houses of the General Assembly. To be eligible
                            for the office of clerk of the circuit court, a person was required to obtain a
                            certification from a judge of the Supreme Court or a president of a circuit court that he
                            was qualified for the duties of the office. The same person might serve as both clerk of the
                            circuit court and county recorder.
               
                     officers were to be "appointed in such manner as shall
                    be directed by law."
            The General Assembly was left free to lay off new counties, subject to the provision that no old
                    county might be reduced thereby to an area of less than four hundred square miles. As previously
                    noted, fifteen counties had been organized within the boundaries of the state at the time of its
                    admission into the Union. Fourteen of these may be said to have occupied, roughly, the southern
                    third of the state. Eight counties, 
                  Posey, Warrick, Perry, Harrison, Clark, Jefferson, Switzerland
               , and 
                        Dearborn
                    , bordered upon the Ohio River. To the north of these lay
                            
                  Gibson, Orange,
                            Washington
               , and 
                        Jackson
                    . Still farther north, in a narrow strip along the eastern boundary, were 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                    , the latter extending northward into what is now 
                  Jay
                            County. Knox County
               , the oldest and
                    largest of the fifteen, extended northward from the White River to include, in
                    addition to the present county of that name, the greater part of the northern two-thirds of the
                        state.47
            
            The advent of statehood inaugurated a period of great activity in the formation of new counties. The
                    creation of 
                        Sullivan County
                     in 1817 took a large block of territory out of the middle of old 
                        Knox County
                    , leaving the latter in the form of two non-contiguous areas, the smaller to the south
                    of Sullivan and the larger to the north. County organization, however, was retained only in the
                    southern area, and thereafter a gradually diminishing portion of northern Indiana, most of which had
                    been Indian territory at the time of the state's admission into the Union, remained as
                    unorganized territory; this territory, however, was attached to existing organized counties for
                    purposes of civil and criminal jurisdiction. In general, the carving of new counties out of the
                    unorganized territory represents a gradual development of the state from south to north, following
                    roughly the frontiers of Indian cessions and pioneer settlements. For the most part, the creation of
                    new counties by the General Assembly came 
                  
                     47 It is to be noted that the provision prohibiting reduction below
                            400 square miles (art. XI, sec. 12) applied only to old counties, and
                            prohibited such reduction only in connection with the laying off of new
                                counties. The manner in which this provision was subject to violation in spirit
                            while still being observed literally is exemplified by the formation of 
                                Ohio County
                            . When that county was carved out of 
                                Dearborn County
                             in 1844 so that the town of Rising Sun might be a county seat, it was made to
                            include only a miniscule area on the bank of the Ohio River, the
                            General Assembly taking care to leave 
                                Dearborn
                             an area of four hundred square miles. A year later, however, another act was
                            passed enlarging 
                                Ohio County
                             and thereby reducing 
                                Dearborn
                             to less than four hundred square miles. See Pence and Armstrong, op. cit., 83, 8–8,63–35. For maps showing county
                            boundaries in 1816, see ibid, 147, 533.
               
                     in response to petitions from local citizens who protested
                    against what seemed in those times to be unduly long distances from county seats.48
            
            In 1835 practically all of the remaining unorganized territory in the northern part of the state was
                    laid off into fifteen "paper" counties. The setting up of governmental machinery
                    within these counties, however, was temporarily postponed, criminal and civil jurisdiction remaining
                    in the hands of those organized counties to which the respective areas had previously been attached
                    for jurisdictional' purposes.49 Subsequently, as increased population
                    seemed to warrant, these respective counties were "organized" by the provision of
                    local governments therein. Thus, by a succession of legislative acts extending over the period of
                    the first state constitution, new counties were formed and county boundaries altered until, by the
                    time of the adoption of the present constitution, all but one (Newton) of the present ninety-two
                    counties had been established and provided with governmental organization.50
            
            In locating county seats in the new counties, the procedure established during the territorial
                    period, according to which the legislature appointed five non-resident commissioners to fix the
                    "seat of justice" in a newly-organized county, was continued during the period of
                    the first state constitution, an act of 1818 providing that this procedure should be followed
                    whenever a new county was created.51 Relocations of county seats were numerous
                    during the period and were accomplished by virtue of special legislative enactments. These special
                    acts displayed great variety, some of them actually fixing the new county seat, others setting up a
                    commission to make the relocation, and still others authorizing the people of the county to decide,
                    by vote, whether they wished to make a relocation and, if so, where the new site should be.52 A general law of 1841 required persons petitioning 
                  
                     48 See ibid., 28, 30, 31, 534.
                  
                     49
                            Laws of Indiana, 183–5 (general), chs. 24, 25; Pence and
                            Armstrong, op. cit., 28, 6–6.
                  
                     50 For a list of the counties of Indiana with the dates of the various
                            acts by which they were organized, see Ernest V. Shockley, "County Seats and County
                            Scat Wars in Indiana", Indiana Magazine of History (1914) vol. X,
                            –6, 4–6. This list, although useful, is not free from error. With
                            regard to the formation of 
                                Newton County
                            , see infra, n. 102.
                  
                     51
                            Laws of Indiana, 181–8 (special), ch. 1. This law was of
                            general application, notwithstanding its publication with the special acts. As a matter of
                            fact, this method of locating county seats was not universally followed. Thus, the act by
                            which 
                                Marion County
                             was formed expressly fixed the location of the "seat of
                            justice" of the new county. See ibid., 182–2, ch. 72.
                  
                     52 See Laws of Indiana, 181–7, ch. 55;
                                ibid., 182–9, chs. 87, 88; ibid.,
                            184–9 (local), ch. 146.
               
                     the General Assembly for the removal of a county seat or the
                    change of a county boundary line to give public notice, by publication or posting, of their
                    intention to present such petition53
            
            The constitution of 1816 did not prescribe a form of governmental organization for counties but the
                    General Assembly of the state, in its first session, created for the transaction of county business
                    in each county a board of county commissioners similar in its nature to the present county board.
                    The board consisted of three members elected by the voters of the county for three-year overlapping
                    terms, and was constituted a body politic and corporate with power to sue and be sued in any matter
                    wherein the county was concerned. Regular quarterly meetings of the board were provided and the
                    clerk of the circuit court was made ex-officio clerk to the board.54 By
                    legislation enacted during the next session, the board of county commissioners was authorized to:
                    levy taxes for county purposes, subject to rate limitations fixed by law; order, upon proper
                    petition therefor and according to the procedure prescribed by law, the opening of new roads and the
                    vacating of useless roads; appoint a lister to list the taxable property of the county; establish
                    ferries; license tavern-keepers upon recommendation of twelve respectable householders; procure a
                    set of standard weights and measures for the county; erect a pound and appoint a poundkeeper; divide
                    the county into townships; and appoint annually in each township two overseers of the poor, an
                    inspector of elections, one or more constables, three fence viewers, and " a necessary
                    number" of highway supervisors. The board was also authorized to fix, within statutory
                    limitations, the number of justices of the peace to be elected in each township.55
            
            This system of county commissioner government was retained until 1824, when, with the revision of.
                    the statutes, the board of county commissioners was replaced as the governing body of the county by
                    a county board of justices consisting of the justices of the peace of the county. The board of
                    justices was directed to meet bi-monthly and to elect annually one of its members as president. The
                    powers previously possessed by the board of commissioners of levying taxes, appropriating 
                  
                     53
                            Laws of Indiana, 184–1 (general), ch. 65.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 181–7, ch. 15.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 181–8 (general), chs. 14. 15, 17, 31, 42, 43, 45, 47,
                            67, 68, 69. See also ibid., 181–7, ch. 14.
               
                     money, appointing township officers, and conducting county
                    business in general were now transferred to the board of justices. The board was constituted a body
                    politic and corporate, and a right of appeal from its decisions to the circuit court was
                        provided.56
            
            The uniformity in the framework of the county government provided by the county commissioner law of
                    1816 and continued under the law of 1824 providing for a board of justices did not long survive the
                    latter date. The constitution of 1816, as was commonly true of the constitutions of that period,
                    placed no restrictions upon the power of the General Assembly to enact special legislation, and the
                    power to enact such measures with respect to county government now began to be freely exercised. In
                    1826, for example, an act was passed modifying the personnel of the board of justices in certain
                    counties by providing that the board should consist of one justice from each township, the justices
                    of a particular township serving in rotation in alphabetical order.57
            
            A year earlier, in 1825, an even more significant act had been passed. By the terms of this act, the
                    townships of 
                        Dearborn County
                     were incorporated and township governments established therein. It was further provided
                    that the electors of each township of that county, in annual meeting, should elect one of the
                    justices of the peace of the township as township supervisor. The various supervisors within the
                    county, meeting together twice annually, were constituted the governing body of the county with
                    authority to exercise all the powers of a county board of justices except those transferred by the
                    act to the respective townships.58 Two years later this supervisor system was
                    extended to the counties of 
                        Switzerland
                     and Rip-ley.59 Thus we find three Indiana counties operating for a
                    brief period under a system of supervisor government somewhat similar to that now found in
                            
                  New York, Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and most
                    of the counties of 
                        Illinois
                    . Care should be taken, however, that this analogy is not overemphasized, since the
                    township "supervisors" who constituted the county boards under these early
                    statutes were not charged with the administration 
                  
                     56
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 182–4, eh. 16. An act of 1818 had
                            provided for appeal to the circuit court from the action of the board of county
                            commissioners in certain highway matters. Laws of Indiana,
                            181–9, ch. 11.
                  
                     57
                            Laws of Indiana, 182–6, ch. 77. This law was repealed the
                            following year. Ibid., 182–7, ch. 14.
                  
                     58
                            Laws of Indiana, 1826, ch. 29.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 182–7, ch. 14.
               
                     of township affairs, the latter being in the hands of township
                    boards of trustees elected in the respective townships. Moreover, since the statutes stipulated that
                    supervisors should be chosen from among the justices of the peace of the respective townships,
                    except for the fact that the justices who comprised the county board were designated by the voters
                    instead of serving in rotation there was no difference in form between the board of supervisors and
                    the modified board of justices referred to in the preceding paragraph.60
            
            In 1827 an act was passed by the terms of which eleven counties reverted to commissioner government,
                    and by subsequent acts this form of government was extended to certain other counties.61 At this time, therefore, three types of county board existed side by side in the state,
                    some counties continuing to operate under boards of justices as provided for all counties in 1824,
                    others operating under boards of commissioners, and still others under boards of supervisors. Thus
                    it became common for the General Assembly, when seeking to confer certain powers or duties upon the
                    governing boards of all counties, to refer to "the boards of justices, or
                    other persons doing county business in the several counties," or simply to "the
                    boards doing county business in the several counties."62 The latter
                    expression is used in the constitution of 1851 and, indeed, is occasionally encountered in statutes
                    still in effect, notwithstanding that uniformity in county boards has now existed for more than
                    three-quarters of a century.63
            
            While it is impossible to make any absolute generalization with regard to the distribution throughout
                    the state of the counties operating under the respective types of county board and the factors
                    responsible for that distribution, certain facts of possible significance may be noted. A perusal of
                    the statutes enacted during the period intervening between the general establishment of county
                    boards of justices in 1824 and the revision of the statutes in the legislative session of
                    183–831 indicates that commissioner government was restored, during those years, in
                    perhaps as many as a third of the counties then 
                  
                     60 Except in name, there is no difference between the hoard of
                            supervisors here discussed and the "board of commissioners", consisting of
                            one justice of the peace elected by the voters of each township, which was provided for 
                                Owen County
                             in 1840. See Laws of Indiana, 183–0 (general), ch.
                            30.
                  
                     61
                            Laws of Indiana, 182–7, ch. 13; ibid.,
                            182–8, ch. 13; ibid., 182–9. ch. 13; ibid., 182–0, ch. 15.
                  
                     62 See. for example, Laws of Indiana,
                            182–7, ch. 12; ibid., 183–4, ch. 24.
                  
                     63 See Constitution of Indiana, art. VI, sec. 10;
                                Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes, 1933, sees.
                            2–01, 4–04.
               
                     in existence. In general, the counties provided with
                    commissioner government were located in the northern part of the then settled portion of the state,
                    a fact which may indicate that the counties in the southern end of the state were satisfied with the
                    system of government by justices prevailing in the states of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , from which many of the settlers of that region had come. The reason for the
                    establishment of the modified form of supervisor system in the three neighboring counties of
                            
                  Dearborn, Switzerland
               , and Rip-ley, in the southeastern corner of the state, is not
                    apparent. Inasmuch as the system was first established in 
                        Dearborn
                     and subsequently extended to 
                        Ripley
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                    , it appears that we cannot look for the explanation to the democratic background of the
                    original settlers of the latter county.64 It seems, however, that most of these
                    special laws regulating the forms of local government were enacted in response to local demand, and
                    we have direct evidence in the debates of the constitutional convention of 185–851 that
                    this was true in the case of the law originally establishing the supervisor system in 
                        Dearborn County
                    . In the course of the debate on the clause prohibiting special legislation regulating
                    county and township business, Mr. Johnson Watts, a delegate to the convention who had been a member
                    of the General Assembly in 1825 and had helped frame the law in question, said of that law:
                    "It was first presented to the Legislature as a general law; but we ascertained that the
                    people of Indiana, then as now, were some of them from 
                        North Carolina
                    , some of them from 
                        Kentucky
                    , some from 
                        Tennessee
                    , some from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and some from 
                        Massachusetts
                     and other States; and they all had their peculiar method of doing county and township
                    business, and the Legislature consented to allow us because we desired it, to try the
                    experiment… in the manner we then proposed."65 Accepting
                    this instance, as we doubtless may, as typical of the prevailing attitude of the Legislature toward
                    such matters, it is apparent that the form of local government established in particular counties
                    was determined in no small part by the region which supplied the early settlers.
            Notwithstanding the diversity prevailing in the form of county board during the years following 1824,
                    the trend seems 
                  
                     64 For a discussion of the Swiss origin of the early settlers of 
                                Switzerland County
                            , see Ferret Dufour, The Swiss Settlement of 
                                    Siuitzerland County
                                , Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, vol. XIII, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925).
                  
                     65
                            Debates and Procedings of the Convention, vol. II,
                        177–772.
               
                     to have been distinctly away from the county board of justices
                    created in that year and toward the board of county commissioners. As we have seen, the governments
                    of various counties were changed, by special statutes, from the board of justices type to the
                    commissioner type, and when new counties were created the commissioner type was frequently, although
                    not always, established. Finally, when the state statutes were again revised by the legislative
                    session of 183–831, uniformity was again established, this time with the board of county
                    commissioners as the prescribed type66 The board provided at this time differed
                    from previous boards in that, while its membership continued to be elected by the voters of the
                    county at large, each member was to be elected from one of the three districts
                    into which the county was to be divided by the existing governing board.67 The
                    board of commissioners was to hold five sessions annually, and appeal was allowed to the circuit
                    court from any decision of the board.
            The uniformity established in 1831 was not of long duration. In 1834 an act was passed applying to
                    eleven counties which provided that the justices of the peace of the respective counties should
                    constitute the board of county commissioners.68 This amounted, in everything but
                    name, to a reversion to the county board of justices in those counties. Two years later another act
                    applying to two counties provided that the boards of commissioners therein should be composed of the
                    justice holding the oldest commission in each of the respective townships.69
                    When the statutes were revised in 1838, the regular board of county commissioners was provided as
                    the normal authority for transacting county business, but ten counties in which existing laws
                    provided that the justices of the peace should constitute the board were specifically excepted from
                    this provision.70 The revision of 184–843 again provided for a board
                    of county commissioners in every county of the state,71 but various counties
                    were subsequently enabled, by virtue of special legislation, to operate under boards composed 
                  
                     66
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 183–1, ch. 20.
                  
                     67 Subsequent acts provided for the election of board members by districts in certain counties. See Laws of Indiana,
                            183–5 (general), ch. 52; ibid., 185–1 (general), ch.
                            36.
                  
                     68
                            Laws of Indiana., 183–4, ch. 23.
                  
                     69
                            Laws of Indiana, 183–6 (general), ch. 62. See also ibid., ch. 64, for an act providing that the board in 
                                Bartholomew County
                             should consist of "the qualified justices" of the county.
                  
                     70
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 183–8. ch. 21.
                  
                     71
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 184–3, ch. 7, art. I.
               
                     of justices. It was not until after the adoption of the
                    constitution of 1851 that uniformity in the composition of the county governing board was
                    permanently established.
            As previously pointed out, the constitution of 1816 provided for the election in each county of a
                    clerk of the circuit court, a recorder, a sheriff, and a coroner. In addition to these
                    constitutional offices, those of treasurer, surveyor, auditor, assessor, and tax collector were
                    established by statute at various times during the period. The first session of the state
                    Legislature provided for a county treasurer to be appointed annually by the board of county
                        commissioners.72 In 1841 the office was made elective and the term extended
                    to three years.73 An act of 1818 provided that the Governor should appoint a
                    surveyor in each county, while an act of 1824 authorized the board of county commissioners to
                    appoint either the sheriff or some other fit person to collect the state and county taxes.74 In 1841 the office of county auditor was created, that official to be elected
                    in each county for a term of five years.75 Soon thereafter, however, the office
                    was abolished in several counties of the state and the duties of the auditor transferred, in such
                    counties, to the clerk of the circuit court.76 By another act of 1841 an
                    elective assessor was provided in each county, but this office, like that of the auditor, was
                    subsequently abolished in certain counties.77
            
            The first session of the General Assembly provided that the board of county commissioners in each
                    county should divide the county into townships and subsequently alter township boundaries and create
                    new townships as the board might deem proper.78 After the first division of the
                    county, however, no new township might be laid off except upon petition therefor by thirty or more
                    citizens residing within the area of the proposed township. According to this legislation, not more
                    than eight townships might be created in any one county, but this restriction was abolished three
                    years later.79 In 1824, the requirement of popular petition as a condition
                    precedent to 
                  
                     72
                            Laws of Indiana, 1816–17, ch. 17. Cf. Revised Laws
                                of Indiana, 1830–31, ch. 21.
                  
                     73
                            Laws of Indiana, 1840–41 (general), ch. 4.
                  
                     74
                     Ibid., 1817–18. ch. 30; Revised Laws of Indiana, 1823–24, ch. 86.
                  
                     75
                            Laws of Indiana, 1840–41 (general), ch. 2. The auditor was to
                            serve ex officio as clerk to the board of county commissioners.
                  
                     76 See, for example. Laws of Indiana,
                            1843–44 (general), chs. 22, 24, 96.
                  
                     77
                            Laws of Indiana, 1840–41 (general), ch. 3: ibid., 1848–49 (general), ch. 6.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., 1816–17, ch. 14. Cf. ibid.,
                            1817–18, ch. 17, relative to new counties.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., 1819–20. ch. 21.
               
                     the creation of new townships was abandoned, the county board
                    being left free to make alterations in township boundaries at its discretion.80
            
            The year 1825 apparently marks the first actual incorporation of civil townships in the state. In
                    that year an act was passed providing that the townships of 
                        Dearborn County
                     should be bodies politic and corporate with power to sue and be sued. This act, which,
                    as we have seen, set up a county board of supervisors, provided that the voters of each township
                    were to elect annually three township trustees, a clerk, a treasurer, from one to three constables,
                    one tax lister, three overseers of the poor, two fence viewers, and one highway overseer for each
                    highway district. The three trustees, as the governing board of the township, were authorized to
                    levy township taxes and to appoint all township officers, not named in the act, the appointment of
                    which had theretofore been vested in the county board of justices. Two years later this system of
                    township government was extended to the counties of 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Ripley
                    . In 1834 an amendatory act provided that the tax lister, overseers of the poor, fence
                    viewers, and highway overseers should be appointed by the township trustees, thus leaving the
                    trustees, clerk, treasurer, and constables as the only elective township officers.81 The townships of 
                        Shelby County
                     were incorporated in 1829 and at the same time provision was made that any township of 
                        Crawford County
                     might become incorporated whenever a majority of the citizens thereof should deem it
                    expedient; an act of 1835 incorporated the townships of 
                        Warren County
                    .82 When the statutes were revised in 1838, an act was included
                    which incorporated the townships of thirteen designated counties and provided for the election
                    therein of substantially the same officers as were provided for the townships of 
                        Dearborn County
                     in 1825.83 The townships of certain other counties were
                    incorporated by subsequent acts.
            At the beginning of the period under consideration, township officers were regularly appointed by the
                    board of county commissioners84 As we have seen, however, the townships of 
                  
                     80
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 182–4, ch. 36.
                  
                     81
                            Laws of Indiana, 1825, ch. 29; ibid., 182–7,
                            ch. 14; ibid., 183–4. ch. 71. An act of 1842 provided for
                            appeal to the circuit court from decisions of the township trustees in incorporated
                            townships. Ibid., 184–2 (general), ch. 149.
                  
                     82
                            Laws of Indiana, 182–9, ch. 33; ibid.,
                            183–5 (local), ch. 7.
                  
                     83
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 183–8, ch. 111.
                  
                     84
                            See Laws of Indiana, 181–7, ch. 26.
               
                     numerous counties were incorporated during the period and
                    provided with elective officers. Moreover, various statutes were enacted whereby elective township
                    officials were provided in certain counties other than those having incorporated townships with
                    boards of trustees. As early as 1826, a special act provided for the election of township officers
                    in 
                  Switzerland, Franklin,
                        and Ripley
                counties. This act was repealed the
                    following year but at the same time another act was passed providing for the annual election in each
                    township within ten designated counties of: one inspector of elections; two fence viewers; two
                    overseers of the poor; as many constables as there were justices of the peace; and as many highway
                    supervisors as were allotted to the township by the board of county commissioners. The provisions of
                    this act were extended by subsequent statutes to certain other counties. Finally, provision was made
                    in the revised statutes of 183–831 for the annual election of township officials in every
                    township of the state, with the provision, however, that, if the voters should fail to elect in any
                    instance, the officials should be appointed by the board of county commissioners. The officials to
                    be elected were constables, election inspectors, fence viewers, overseers of the poor, and highway
                    supervisors, the townships of 
                        Dearborn
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                     counties retaining also their locally-elected boards of trustees.85
                    But in township government, as in that of the county, these early attempts at uniformity did not
                    prove to be of permanent duration. Subsequent special acts applying to particular counties provided
                    for the appointment of a part or all of the township officers by the board doing county business. In
                    1849, an elective township assessor was added in certain counties to the list of township
                        officials.86
            
            It should be noted that the system, inaugurated in 
                        Dearborn County
                     in 1825 and subsequently extended to a few other counties, of having township affairs
                    controlled by locally-elected boards of township trustees rather than by the county governing board,
                    seems to have been quite popular in the counties operating under it. Indeed, in the constitutional
                    convention of 185–851, some of the delegates from those counties vigorously opposed the
                    inclusion of "township business" in the list 
                  
                     85
                            Laws of Indiana, 182–6. ch. 77: ibid.,
                            182–7, chs. 13, 14; ibid., 182–8, ch. 13; ibid., 182–9. ch. 13; ibid.,
                            182–0, ch. 15; Revised Laws of Indiana, 183–1, ch.
                            20.
                  
                     86
                            Laws of Indiana, 184–9 (general), chs. 6, 7, 8.
               
                     of subjects upon which special legislation was to be
                    prohibited, fearing that such a prohibition would result in depriving them of this particular system
                    of township government87
            
            The township as a corporation for educational purposes dates virtually from the beginning of
                    Indiana's statehood, resulting from the policy on the part of Congress of granting a
                    section of land in each congressional township to the inhabitants thereof for the support of
                    schools. An act passed by the first session of the state legislature authorized the board of county
                    commissioners to appoint, in each congressional or fractional township in which a section had been
                    reserved for the use of schools, a superintendent of the school section, who was to have charge of
                    the leasing of the school lands, subject to statutory restrictions88 It was
                    further provided, however, that any congressional township, at the request of twenty resident
                    householders, might be incorporated. In the event of such incorporation, the voters of the
                    congressional township were to elect a board of three trustees to manage the school lands, which
                    board should constitute a body corporate with power to sue and be sued and " to make all
                    such bye laws, rules and regulations not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this state,
                    as may be necessary for the purpose of encouraging and supporting school or schools in said
                        township."89 Thus, it appears that the school township as a
                    corporate entity antedates the civil township, the first civil townships being incorporated, as we
                    have seen, in 1825. It should be pointed out, however, that whereas the boundaries of our
                    present-day school townships are coterminous with those of the civil townships,90 these early school corporations consisted of the areas comprising the respective
                    congressional townships.
            By a provision of the revised statutes of 1824 the board of township trustees in each incorporated
                    congressional township was directed to divide the township into school districts and to appoint
                    three sub-trustees or district trustees in each district;91 thus was
                    superimposed upon the township system a district system which, with various changes in the
                    relationship 
                  
                     87 See Debates and Proceedings of the Convention,
                            vol. II, 177–772.
                  
                     88
                            Lawa of Indiana, 181–7. ch. 12. Cf. ibid.,
                            181–8, ch. 49.
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., 181–7, ch. 12, p. 107.
                  
                     90 Except for the fact that cities and certain incorporated towns,
                            although included within civil townships, are not included within school townships.
                  
                     91
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 182–4, ch. 97.
               
                     between district and township, was retained until 185292 The district trustees were charged with the duty of calling a meeting of the
                    inhabitants of the district for the purpose of determining whether or not a school should be
                    established in the district. If the decision was in the affirmative, it was the duty of the district
                    trustees to superintend the building of a schoolhouse and, subject to the approval of the township
                    trustees, to employ a teacher. By an act of 1829 designed to facilitate the sale of the school
                    lands, every congressional township of the state was specifically declared to be a body politic and
                        corporate.93 Legislation of 1833,94 providing that the
                    district trustees should be elected by the voters of the respective districts instead of being
                    appointed by the township trustees, perfected the scheme of organization whereby an elective board
                    of township trustees was to have charge of the congressional township school fund, while an elective
                    board in each school district was charged, in case the inhabitants voted to maintain a school, with
                    employing a teacher and managing the school's affairs. A harbinger of our present system of
                    the single township trustee is found in an act of 1850 providing that the business of each
                    congressional township in 
                        Grant County
                     should be transacted by one trustee elected for a term of three years.95
            
            
               Summary. By way of summary, certain outstanding characteristics and trends of the
                    period of the first constitution may be noted.
            New counties were organized and old counties divided until there were ninety-one counties in 1851 as
                    contrasted with fifteen in 1816. Indeed, the ninety-second county was first formed during this
                    period but was subsequently attached to a neighboring county and was not in existence in 1851.96
            
            With respect to the form of the county governing body, variety characterizes the period. The session
                    laws of these years fairly abound with statutes, both general and special, 
                  
                     92 Although the system of township control has been employed since
                            1852, the law still recognizes the school district. In the words of the Indiana Supreme
                            Court, "The laws have been modified from time to time, but the school district has
                            remained as the basis of the general system of common-school educationquot;. Advisory Board'v. State. 164 Ind. 295. 299, 73 N.E. 700, 702 (1905). A
                            school district, however, has no fixed boundaries, but is composed of those residents of the
                            township who are served by a particular school. See 
                                
                                    Ireland
                                
                             v. State, 166 Ind., $77, 75 N.E. 872 (1905).
                  
                     93
                            Laws of Indiana, 182–9, ch. 84.
                  
                     94
                            Ibid., 183–3, ch. 70. Cf. ibid.,
                            183–7 (general), ch. 2.
                  
                     95
                            Ibid., 184–0 (general), ch. 265.
                  
                     96 See infra, n. 102.
               
                     establishing boards of justices, boards of county
                    commissioners, boards of commissioners composed of justices, and boards of supervisors. Yet
                    throughout the period may be sensed a certain striving for uniformity. Every revision of the
                    statutes witnessed the enactment of legislation designed to bring all, or at least most, of the
                    counties under a common form of governing board. However, the pressure for special legislation was
                    strong and, the constitution offering no barrier to such action, these general provisions could not
                    long withstand the local demands for exceptions and modifications. The latter part of the period was
                    marked by a distinct tendency toward commissioner government of the present type and away from the
                    other forms of county board.
            With respect to the method of choosing local government officials, the period witnessed a widespread
                    shift from appointment to election. Although, as we have seen, the germ of the demand for popular
                    election was in evidence during the last years of the territorial period, appointment continued to
                    be the well-nigh universal means of selecting county and township officials until the advent of
                    statehood. By 1850, however, practically all county officers were popularly elected and, although
                    township officers continued in certain instances to be appointed by the county board, appointment
                    was the exception rather than the rule. The "democratic" movement had triumphed.
            A third significant fact of the period was the incorporation of the civil township for purposes of
                    civil government and of the congressional township for school purposes. Hand in hand with the fact
                    of incorporation came an increase in the importance of the township as a unit of local government,
                    evidenced by a slow but clearly perceptible expansion of the scope of its activities.
            As a fourth and final point, may well be mentioned the creation, in 1841, of the office of county
                    auditor, the incumbent of which was destined to assume a leading role in Indiana county government.
            PERIOD OF THE PRESENT STATE CONSTITUTION
            The constitution of 1851, as was to be expected in view of experience under the earlier instrument,
                    was considerably more elaborate than that of 1816 with respect to its provisions concerning local
                    government. It stipulated that there should be  elected in each
                    county a clerk of the circuit court, auditor, recorder, treasurer, sheriff, coroner, and
                        surveyor.97 The term of the clerk, auditor and recorder was to be four
                    years; that of the treasurer, sheriff, coroner, and surveyor, two years. No person might serve in
                    the office of clerk, auditor, recorder, treasurer, or sheriff for more than two consecutive terms.
                    It was further provided that a competent number of justices of the peace should be elected in each
                    township for a term of four years. Such other county and township officers as might be necessary
                    were to be elected or appointed in such manner as might be prescribed by law. In laying out counties
                    and prescribing county boundaries, the General Assembly was forbidden to reduce any county to an
                    area of less than four hundred square miles or to reduce further any existing county of less than
                    that area.98 A very significant provision was one to the effect that the General
                    Assembly should not pass local or special laws regulating county and township business or regulating
                    the election and compensation of county and township officers." This prohibition indicates
                    a pronounced reaction against the confusing mass of special legislation with respect to local
                    government which had grown up under the constitution of 1816 as a result of the absence of
                    restrictive provisions in that document and the apparent understanding within the Legislature that
                    each member was entitled to the passage of whatever local legislation his own people wanted.100
            
            As previously indicated, all but one of the present ninety-two counties had been organized when the
                    constitution of 1851 was adopted. The list was completed when, acting under a general law of 1857101 authorizing the formation of new counties and the change of county
                    boundaries upon proper petition therefor, the board of commissioners of 
                        Jasper County
                    , on December 8, 1859, entered an order dividing that county and setting up the western
                    part thereof as the new county of Newton.102
            
            
               
                  97
                        Constitution of Indiana, art. VI. see. 2.. Counties containing less than one
                        thousand polls were authorized to confer the offices of clerk, recorder, and auditor, or any two
                        of them, upon the same person. Ibid., art. II, sec. 9.
               
                  98
                        Ibid., art. VI. sees, 2, 3; art. VII, sec. 14; art. XV, sec. 7.
               
                  99
                        Ibid., art. IV, sec. 22.
               
                  100 See Board of Commissioners v. State, 161 Ind. 616,
                        623, 69 N.E. 442 (1904).
               
                  101
                        Laws of Indiana, 1857, ch. 15. The constitutionality of this act was upheld by
                        the Supreme Court in Board of Commissioners v. SpMer, 13 Ind. 285 (1859).
               
                  102 The county of Newton had originally been formed in 1835. Laws of Indiana, 183–5 (general), ch. 25. However, it was subsequently
                        attached to 
                            Jasper County
                        , of which it had been a part for twenty years prior to 1859. See Pence and
                        Armstrong, op. cit., 62–25. For interesting sidelights on the
                        formation of 
                            Newton County
                         in 1859, see John Ade. 
                            
                                Newton County
                            
                         (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1911), 5–5.
            
            
            There were occasional relocations of county seats during the early decades of the period, agitation
                    for relocation sometimes engendering intense and bitter rivalry between the different centers
                    contending for the seat of government.103 A general law of 1855 authorized the
                    board of county commissioners of any county to remove the county seat to a new location upon
                    petition of two-thirds of the legal voters of the county, the petitioners bearing the expense of
                    erecting new county buildings and providing sites therefor.104 In addition to
                    general legislation of this type, there were occasional special acts authorizing relocation in
                    particular counties.105 So the process continued until it could be said in 1914
                    that "The hundred years of Indiana history have seen thirty-nine counties with from two to
                    seven county seats each, and a total of one hundred and thirty-five towns in the State which have
                    been county seats at some time."106
            
            With the revision of the statutes immediately following the adoption of the new constitution, the
                    General Assembly, by an act which, as subsequently amended, is still in effect, established a board
                    of county commissioners as the governing body of each and every county of the state.107 The board was to consist of three members, elected by the voters of
                    the county at large but from commissioner districts. Regular quarterly sessions of
                    the board were to be held, and the auditor was made ex-officio clerk to the board. The board was
                    vested with the control of county property and was authorized to allow claims against the county, to
                    levy county taxes, and, subject to certain limitations, to borrow money on behalf of the county. It
                    was provided that appeal from all decisions of the board should lie to the circuit court or the
                    court of common pleas.108
            
            There is little to record concerning changes in the structure of county government between the years
                    1852 and 1899. Due to the prohibition inserted in the constitution of 1851, this half century was
                    devoid of any great mass of special legislation such as characterized the preceding period and which
                    had 
                  
                     103 For an account of these controversies, see Ernest V. Shockley,
                            "County Seats and County Seat Wars in Indiana," loc.
                            cit., –6.
                  
                     104
                            Laws of Indiana, 1855, ch. 12. For supplementary act, see ibid., 1858 (special session), ch. 10.
                  
                     105 See, for example, Laws of Indiana, 1913, ch.
                            335.
                  
                     106 Shockley, "County Seats and County Seat Wars in
                            Indiana," loe. cit., 44.
                  
                     107
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 185–2, vol. I, ch. 20; Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes, 1933, sees. 2–01
                            ff.
                  
                     108 The court of common pleas, a statutory court, was subsequently
                            abolished.
               
                     resulted in great variety in the forms of county organization.
                    Individual offices were, to be sure, established and abolished from time to time, but the broad
                    outline of structure, centering nominally in the board of county commissioners, remained unchanged.
            But the legislation establishing the board of county commissioners had vested broad powers in that
                    body, to be exercised upon its own responsibility, and instances of the abuse of those powers were
                    not wanting. While the law provided that county officers could spend no money without previous
                    appropriation thereof by the board, the practice became widely prevalent of county officers making
                    purchases and then presenting their claims to the board, which usually allowed
                    them in a perfunctory manner.109 Moreover, questionable practices in the letting
                    of contracts seem to have been widespread. "It was openly asserted by the Indiana state
                    board of commerce [in 1898] that the county boards… had cost the people of the state as
                    much as $100,000 annually in fraudulent contracts, and that to this sum must be added
                    excessive and improvident expenditures by the boards… ".110
                    By 1899 charges of extravagance and dishonesty on the part of the county board, together with the
                    resulting demand that its authority be curtailed, had become so widespread that the General Assembly
                    responded by enacting what has come to be commonly known as the County Reform Law.111
            
            By this act, control of the fiscal affairs of the county was taken from the board of county
                    commissioners and placed in the hands of a county council, consisting of seven members elected for a
                    four-year term. Of the seven councilmen, one was to be elected by and from each of the four
                    councilmanic districts into which the county was to be divided by the board of county commissioners,
                    the remaining three to be elected by the voters of the county at large. Upon the council was
                    conferred the exclusive power to: levy county taxes; make appropriations; authorize the incurring of
                    indebtedness; and authorize the purchase or sale of real estate when the value 
                  
                     109 Samnel E. Sparling, "Responsibility in County
                            Government," Political Seience Quarterly, vol. XVI (1901),
                            43–49, 44–46.
                  
                     110
                            Ibid., 446.
                  
                     111
                            Laws of Indiana, 1899, ch. 154. For cases in which the highest courts of
                            the state have considered the reasons for the passage of the act, see Lund v.
                                Board of Commissioners.. 47 Ind. App. 175, 93 N. E. 179 (1910): Snider v. State. 206 Ind. 474, 190 N. E. 178 (1934).
               
                     amounted to one thousand dollars or more.112 The board of county commissioners was retained as the chief administrative agency of the
                    county. To care for its various administrative duties, regular monthly sessions of the board were
                    provided, beginning on the first Monday of the month "and continuing only so long as the
                    necessary business of such session absolutely requires."113 In
                    connection with the reform act should be mentioned another act of the same session providing that
                    county commissioners should receive regular salaries, "graded in proportion to the
                    population and the necessary services required" in the several counties.114 Prior to this time, the county commissioners, except in a few of the more populous
                    counties, had been compensated on a per diem basis.
            With the legislation of 1899, county government assumed its present general form of organization. The
                    General Assembly has since found it desirable, from time to time, to create, modify, and abolish
                    particular offices, as the county has been charged with new duties or relieved of old ones, or as
                    existing provisions have for some other reason been found to be unsatisfactory. But the board of
                    commissioners as the administrative body of the county and the council as the authority in fiscal
                    matters have been retained with few changes in their original relationship.
            By legislation enacted during the session of 185–852,115 the plan of
                    township government existing at the close of the preceding period was continued with certain
                    modifications. The board of county commissioners was authorized to divide the county into any number
                    of townships that the convenience of the inhabitants might require, and to alter the number and
                    boundaries of such townships from time to time as the board might deem proper. Existing townships
                    were to be retained, subject to future alteration. The township-board system was 
                  
                     112 Control of township taxation, which had been conferred upon the
                            board of county commissioners in 1859, was, by a companion measure, transferred to elective
                            advisory boards in the respective townships. See infra.
                  
                     113
                            Lows of Indiana, 1899. ch. 154, p. 364.
                  
                     114
                            Idid, ch. 241. As originally adopted, the constitution of 1851 provided
                            (art. IV, sec. 22) that the General Assembly should not pass local or special laws
                            "in relation to fees and salaries," and several early acts designed to
                            provide a graduated scale of salaries for county officers were held unconstitutional as
                            violatlve of this prohibition. See William A. Rawles, Centralizing Tendencies
                                in the Administration of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1903), 802. The provision was modified by amendment In 1881 by adding thereto,
                            as a qualification, "except that the laws may be so made as to
                            grade the compensation of officers in proportion to the population and the necessary
                            services requiredquot;. See Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                                Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, vols. I, II, XVII, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916, 1930), vol. II, 20–07.
                  
                     115
                            Revistd Statutes of Indiana, 186–2, vol. I, ch. 110.
               
                     continued, the voters of each township electing annually three
                    trustees, a clerk, and a treasurer.116 The trustees were charged with the
                    management of township property and the levying of township taxes. They were also to serve as fence
                    viewers and overseers of the poor, thus eliminating those officials from the list of independently
                    elected township officers.117 The township voters were to elect annually a
                    highway supervisor for each road district.118 It was made the duty of the
                    supervisors, under the supervision of the trustees, to keep the highways and bridges of the township
                    in good repair, for which purpose they were authorized to call out persons liable for road work and
                    to superintend their labor. Every civil township of the state was constituted a school township,
                    thus relieving the congressional township of its political functions.119 The
                    trustees, clerk, and treasurer of the civil township were to serve the school township in like
                    capacities, the trustees being vested with general charge of the educational affairs of the
                    township, including the employment of teachers. Since the beginning of this period, therefore, the
                    boundaries of the school-township corporation have corresponded to those of the civil township
                    rather than to those of the congressional township.120 It is also to be noted
                    that the practice of having the same set of officials serve both the civil and the school
                    corporations dates from this time. A law of 1855, designed to facilitate the distribution of revenue
                    from the congressional township school fund, directed the boards of county commissioners to make the
                    boundaries of civil townships (and, therefore, of school townships) correspond as nearly as
                    practicable to those of the congressional townships.121
            
            In 1859 the three-member township board was abandoned in favor of the present single-trustee system.
                    A statute of 
                  
                     116 An act of 1853 provided a three-year term for the trustees, one
                            member of the board being elected annually. Laws of Indiana, 1853, ch.
                            113.
                  
                     117 The expense of poor relief, however, was to be borne by the
                            county. Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1851–52, vol. I, ch. 81.
                  
                     118
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1851–52, vol. I, ch. 102. The road
                            districts were to be laid out by the township trustees. Ibid., ch. 110.
                            For a two-year period during the early eighties, the office of highway supervisor was
                            abolished and a single elective "superintendent of roads" was provided for
                            each township with authority to appoint one or more ‘road masters’ and
                            to superintend the employment of laborers for work on the roads. See Laws of
                                Indiana, 1881, ch. 63; ibid., 1883, ch. 56.
                  
                     119
                            Revised Statutees of Indiana, 1851–52, vol. I., ch. 98. Cf. Rawles, op. cit., 87.
                  
                     120 Apparently it was not until 1859 that the school township was
                            specifically declared to be a body corporate. See Laius of Indiana, 1859,
                            ch. 119.
                  
                     121
                            Laws of Indiana, 1855, ch. 86. Cf. Rawles, op. cit., 37, n. 2. Notwithstanding this injunction, less than one-fifth of the
                            civil townships have boundaries correspondinpr with those of the congressional townships.
                            See Survey Maps of Indiana Counties (Rand, McNally & Co., 
                                Chicago
                            , circa 1908). Quite naturally, the degree of correspondence
                            is greater in the northern counties, where county boundaries are more regular in shape, than
                            in the southern part of the state.
               
                     that year provided that one township trustee, elected annually,
                    should replace the existing three trustees and should also act as clerk and treasurer of the
                    township, the separate offices of clerk and treasurer being abolished.122 The
                    trustee was charged with the management of township property and was also to act as inspector of
                    elections, overseer of the poor, and fence viewer. In the matter of finance, however, the powers
                    formerly vested in the township board were not transferred to the trustee without important
                    qualification, the statute providing that township taxes should be levied by the trustee
                    "with the advice and concurrence of the board of county commissioners."123 In case the trustee and commissioners should fail to agree, the
                    commissioners were to make the levy. Thus the control of township finance was virtually transferred,
                    not to the township trustee, but to the board of county commissioners.124
            
            By legislation of 1877, a two-year term for township officers supplanted the one-year term and
                    provision was made that no person might serve as trustee for more than two consecutive terms. Twelve
                    years later the four-year term was adopted, with the provision that no person might serve as trustee
                    for a second consecutive term. In 1917, the law on this subject was again changed to allow an
                    incumbent of the office of trustee to serve for two successive four-year terms.125
            
            The scheme set up in 1859, whereby control of township finance was vested in the board of county
                    commissioners, was retained for forty years. In 1899, however, as a part of the program to curb the
                    power of the county commissioners, control of township finance was taken from that body and placed
                    in the hands of a new fiscal agency—the township advisory board—which was
                    created in each township of the state.126 This advisory board, which still
                    remains as the fiscal authority of the township, was to consist of three members elected 
                  
                     122
                            Laws of Indiana, 1859, ch. 133.
                  
                     123
                            Ibid., p. 221. An act of 1875 required the trustee to procure an order
                            from the board of county commissioners before incurring indebtedness in excess of what could
                            be paid from the amount on hand in the proper fund plus the amount to be raised from taxes
                            for the current year. Laws of Indiana, 1875 (regular session), ch. 114.
                  
                     124 Although the requirement that township tax levies have the
                            approval of the board of county commissioners remained the general rule for forty years,
                            instances were not wanting of statutes which authorized or required the trustee, either upon
                            his own initiative or after favorable action by the voters, to make levies for specified
                            purposes. See, for example, Laws of Indiana, 1865 (regular session), ch.
                            1; ibid., 1873, ch. 95; ibid., 1879 (special session),
                            ch. 74; ibid., 1896, ch. 119.
                  
                     125
                            Laws of Indiana, 1877 (regular session), ch. 37; ibid.,
                            1877 (special session), ch. 44; ibid., 1889, ch. 226; ibid., 1917, ch. 171.
                  
                     126
                            Ibid., 1899, ch. 106. This act is commonly referred to as the Township
                            Reform Law; it is a companion measure of the County Reform Law of the same year.
               
                     by the voters of the township for a term of four years, and was
                    vested with authority to: adopt the township budget; levy township taxes; and authorize the
                    incurring of township indebtedness. Thus was inaugurated our present system of township governmental
                    organization.
            Since 1899, various statutes have been enacted which have made minor changes in township organization
                    and have shifted governmental functions as between the township and the county. Four such statutes
                    deserve particular mention as being of special significance. The first of these, an act of 1917,127 abolished the office of township road supervisor and transferred the duties
                    of that functionary to the township trustee, at the same time placing the trustee, who had
                    theretofore been compensated by a per diem,128 on a regular salary basis. Two of
                    the others, enacted in 1932 and 1933, respectively, transferred all township highways to the
                    respective counties for maintenance and made the counties rather than the townships responsible for
                    the cleaning and repairing of drainage ditches.129 The fourth, also enacted in
                    1933, abolished the office of township assessor in all townships having a population of five
                    thousand or less and imposed the duties of assessor in such townships upon the respective township
                        trustees.130
            
            
               Summary. The creation of 
                        Newton County
                     in 1859 completed the present list of ninety-two Indiana counties. Since that time,
                    county boundaries have been relatively stable, although there have been minor alterations. As
                    contrasted with the preceding period, uniformity and continuity, rather than variety and change,
                    have characterized the form of the county governing board. The board of three commissioners
                    established in 1852 has continued to serve as the chief administrative authority of the county,
                    monthly sessions of the board, however, replacing quarterly sessions. The most significant change in
                    the organization of county government during the period has been the creation of the county council
                    and the transfer to that body of the fiscal authority formerly possessed by the board of county
                    commissioners. To the list of county officers established by the constitution the General 
                  
                     127
                            Ibid., 1917. ch. 159.
                  
                     128 Except in a few of the more populous townships, in which salaries
                            had been provided by special acts. See, for example. Laws of Indiana,
                            1898, ch. 133.
                  
                     129
                            Laws of Indiana. 1932 (special session), ch. 16: ibid.,
                            1933. ch. 264.
                  
                     130
                            Ibid., 1933, ch. 77.
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE, FORMS OF COUNTY GOVERNING BOARD IN INDIANA HISTORY
                  
                     1790131 1795 (N.W. Ter.)
                     Court of Quarter Sessions. Fiscal control exercised directly by the territorial
                                Governor and Judges in their legislative capacity.132
                     
                  
                  
                     1795–1799 (N.W. Ter.)
                     Court of Quarter Sessions. Fiscal control in the hands of commissioners appointed by
                                the quarter sessions, and elective assessors.
                  
                  
                     1799–1803 (N.W. Ter. & Ind. Ter.)
                     Court of Quarter Sessions, Fiscal control vested in a board of county commissioners
                                appointed by the quarter sessions.
                  
                  
                     1803–1806 (Ind. Ter.)
                     Court of Quarter Sessions.
                  
                  
                     1806–1814 (Ind. Ter.)
                     Court of Common Pleas.
                  
                  
                     1814–1816 (Ind. Ter.)
                     Associate Judges of Circuit Court.
                  
                  
                     1816–1824 (State of Ind.)
                     Board of County Commissioners.
                  
                  
                     1824–1852 (State of Ind.)
                     County Boards of Justices.
                  
                  
                     Boards of County Commissioners
                  
                  
                     Boards of Commissioners composed of Justices.
                  
                  
                     Boards of County Supervisors.
                  
                  
                     1852–1899 (State of Ind.)
                     Board of County Commissioners.
                  
                  
                     1899–1937 (State of Ind.)
                     Board of County Commissioners. Fiscal control vested in the County Council.
                  
               
                    
                  
                     131 Date of the formation of 
                                Knox County
                            , Northwest Territory.
                  
                     132 This method of fiscal control was preseribed by statute in 1792,
                            and apparently existed in practice prior to that date.
               
                     Assembly has from time to time made additions. Some of these
                    statutory offices, as, for example, that of county assessor, have been established by law in all
                    counties; others have been established in only some of the counties; and in still other instances
                    the counties have been left free to determine for themselves whether or not they will establish the
                    office.
            In the field of township government should be noted the supplanting, at the beginning of the period
                    under consideration, of the congressional township by the civil township as the area to be
                    incorporated for educational purposes as a "school townshipquot;. Other noteworthy
                    developments during the period have been the abandonment of the township board for the
                    single-trustee system, the lengthening of the term of township officers from one to four years, and
                    the creation of the advisory board as the fiscal authority of the township. The most recent
                    developments have been the transfer of the township's highway and drainage functions to the
                    county and the abolition of the office of township assessor in all but the most populous
                townships.
         
         
         
            
               Ohio Valley Commerce, 178–936*
            
            CHARLES K. PALMER
            
            The recent completion by the Federal government of fifty-two locks and movable dams to provide
                    nine-foot slack-water navigation on the Ohio River has directed attention to
                    the importance of this river as a unit in the transportation system of the nation. In its original
                    condition the river was much obstructed throughout its entire length by snags, rocks, and gravel and
                    sand bars, rendering navigation difficult and hazardous. The width of the channel was exceedingly
                    variable. The depth available for navigation over the worst shoals at extreme low water was as
                    little as from one to two feet. The slack-water project was planned to correct this situation.
            The first lock and dam on the Ohio River was provided for by the River and
                    Harbor Act of March 3, 1879, which appropriated funds for a lock and movable dam at Davis Island,
                    four and seven-tenths miles below 
                  Pittsburgh,
                            Pennsylvania
               . This dam was expected to
                    be lock and dam Number 1 of a six-foot slack-water system. The existing project was adopted by the
                    River and Harbor Act of June 25, 1910. This provided for fifty-four locks and movable dams for
                    nine-foot slack-water navigation. In all fifty-two locks and dams were built at a total cost of
                    $117,379,160.01. Much discussion as to the feasibility of the project between those who
                    favor the project and those who oppose it has occurred since the date of the first act. It is not
                    the purpose of this paper to enter into this discussion, but an attempt will be made to trace
                    briefly and as accurately as possible the progress of commercial development in the Ohio
                        Valley both before and after the commencement of the project.
            The first real settlement on the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     was the focal point for trade between the valley of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Atlantic seaboard. A small amount of commerce was maintained about 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and on the Monongahela River
                    
                  
                     * In 1932 the writer presented to the Department of History
                            of Indiana University, a master's thesis, entitled "Improvement and
                            Navigation of the Ohio River, 1787 to 1925." This thesis was
                            based on data collected after 1923. Since writing the thesis, the author has attempted to
                            keep up with Information relating to the subject. In pursuance of this effort, chambers of
                            commerce, river and harbor conventions, and governmental agencies have proved to be good
                            sources of information. The author has also done further research on the commerce of the
                                Ohio Valley at the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            . The last chapter of the thesis was a summary of the history of commerce on the
                                Ohio River. Commercial data have been selected from the entire
                            thesis, and this with additional matter has been incorporated with the original summary to
                            make up the paper here presented. No attempt has been made to incorporate any new facts
                            relating to the great floods of February, 1937.
               
                     as early as 1788. It is estimated that at least four hundred
                    persons passed the settlement each day on their way to Marietta, to "the falls,"
                    or other Ohio River points. The suggestion was made that roads be built along
                    the banks that horses might be employed to draw up large barges. In 1789 the labor of twenty men
                    working for eight to ten weeks was required to propel a forty-ton boat from 
                        New Orleans
                     to the falls at 
                        Louisville
                    . A few persons looked forward to the successful use of the experiments of Rumsey and
                    Fitch, which as yet had not proved feasible. Meantime the expense of transportation was prohibitive.
                    The cost of hauling forty tons of freight from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and thence to 
                        Louisville
                     was at the rate of $40 per ton. For the river passage alone, the cost was
                    but $1.25 per ton.1
            
            The first line of packet boats, in the ordinary sense of the word, were keel-boats which plied
                    between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     from 1793 onward. Boats of this type were able to reach 
                        Louisville
                     eight or nine days after leaving 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . In 1791 Fitch, Rumsey and Stevens patented improvements in the steam engine which were
                    ultimately to reduce this time considerably. In 178–783 Messrs. Tardiveau and Honore of
                            
                  Brownsville, Pennsylvania
               , began a keel-boat trade to 
                        New Orleans
                     which was later transferred to 
                        Louisville
                    . By 1796 no less than a thousand flat-boats passed Marietta annually. A passenger boat
                    each month traversed the river from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Mail service to Marietta, Gallipolis, and Limestone (Maysville), 
                        Kentucky
                    , was opened and mail delivered twice a month.2
            
            In 1800 the first ocean-rigged vessel left the 
                        Ohio
                     for the sea. It was the St. Claire built in 
                        Marietta
                     and commanded by Commodore Abraham Whipple, the leader of the Americans during the
                    Gaspée episode. Trade on the river languished during the period from 1808 to 1810 because
                    of Jefferson's embargo. This was particularly disastrous to the boat building industry for
                    a time.3
            
            The first steamer to be operated on western waters left 
                        Pittsburgh
                     during the latter part of 1811. This was the 
                        
                            New Orleans
                        
                    . It was followed by the Comet, built in 1812, and the 
                  
                     1 Justin Winsor. The Westward Movement,
                                176–789 (
                                Boston
                            , 1897), 48, 119.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 175, 204, 298, 31–18, 413, 508, 51–12; Archer
                            B. Hulbert, The Ohio River
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1906). 23–31.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 24–42.
               
                    
                    Vesuvious, of 390 tons, built in 1814.4 By 1816 the ultimate
                    success of the new mode of transportation was definitely assured. Boats were being built at several
                    ports on the river and a company had been formed at 
                        Cincinnati
                     to carry on trade. The new steamboat 
                        
                            New Orleans
                        
                     built in Wheeling in 1817 made the trip from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     in forty-one days. Before 1817 nearly all the commerce between the upper country and 
                        New Orleans
                     was conducted in twenty small barges making annual trips. About 150 keel-boats made the
                    trip between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    .5 On May 8, 1819, five steamboats passed 
                        Louisville
                    
                    en route up or down the river. At the same time seven boats were being constructed
                    in the 
                        Louisville
                     shipyards, and other cities on the river were as busy.6 After the
                    completion of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal (1830), which permitted steamboats of small draft to descend the falls at all
                    seasons of the year, trade from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to lower river points increased perceptibly. Sandbars, however, often necessitated!
                    unloading to get the boats free from the frequent groundings during low water.7
            
            
               
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Louisville
                     grew rapidly as trade increased. Flour, pork, cider and beverages produced in those
                    cities found a ready market farther down the river. Manufactured goods for domestic use in the
                    valley rapidly replaced imports from the eastern seaboard and a large export trade grew with 
                        New Orleans
                     and other Mississippi River points.8
            
            Commerce changed considerably after 1840, and it was realized by 1860 that steps must be taken to
                    care for it. Statistics taken from the 
                        Louisville
                     Directory of 1838 show the total number of steamboats in service in the West and
                    Southwest to have been then about 400… Of these, 112 were built at 
                        
                            Pittsburgh
                        
                    , seventy at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and fifty-five at 
                  Louisville,
                            New Albany
                and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The remainder were built at other ports along the river. Four or five were constructed
                    in eastern ports.9 The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Daily Gazette
                    
                  
                     4 John H. Morrison, History of American Steam
                            Navigation (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 190; Hulbert, op. cit., 33–33.
                  
                     5 James Hall, The West, its Commerce and Navigation,
                            13; Theodore G. Gronert. "Trade in the Blue Grass Region,
                            181–820," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valler Historical Review (1919), V, 819.
                  
                     6 Gronert, "Trade In the Blue Grass Region," loc. cit., 320.
                  
                     7 Timothy Flint, The History and Geography of the
                                    Mississippi Valley
                      (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1832) I, 899.
                  
                     8 Herbert Quick and Edward Quick, 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Steamboatin' (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 4–3.
                  
                     9 Hunt's Merchant's Magazine and
                                Commercial Review, V., 470.
               
                     prepared a table in 1841 containing a list of 371 boats with a
                    total tonnage of 64,928 tons. Thirty-five of these were built in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1841.10 Thomas Allen of 
                        St. Louis
                    , in a report to the convention held at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1847, stated that the number of steamboats in western waters in 1846 was 1,200. He
                    placed their value at more than $16,000,000. In addition he estimated that there were
                    4,000 keel-boats and flat-boats in service.11
            
            In 1840 the value of products carried on western waters12 amounted to about
                    $120,000,000 and the trade was increasing rapidly.13 Much of the
                    commerce at that time was local, and centered around 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Louisville
                    . In 1843 it was estimated that no less than 400,000 hogs were packed for shipment at or
                    near 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The chief exports of 
                        Louisville
                     for the six years prior to 1843 included 400,000 pieces of bagging, 300,000 coils of
                    rope, and 7,000 to 8,000 hogsheads of tobacco annually. With the other minor products the exports of 
                        Louisville
                     were from twenty-five to thirty millions annually.14
            
            During the period from 1844 to 1866, the freight traffic on the river did not change perceptibly.
                    Most of the passenger traffic was taken over by the railroads, but the greater part of the coal
                    shipments was still carried on the river. The barges then in use were four foot temporary boxes
                    which were usually sold in 
                        New Orleans
                     and were not returned up the river. The increase in the demand for both coal and lumber
                    throughout the river area led to a new era in Ohio river commerce. By 1865
                    towing came into extensive use. Large barges, usually six or more feet in depth, were brought into
                    service, and were towed in fleets of ten or twelve by means of steamboats built especially for that
                    purpose. About forty such steamers were in service at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1866. Whereas the shipment of coal from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1844 was 2,500,000 bushels, by 1866, it had increased to about 40,000,000
                        bushels.15 Between 1844 and 1865 a large local carrying trade, which
                    included both passengers and freight, developed on the 
                        Ohio
                    . 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., VI. 92.
                  
                     11 George Conklin, New River Guide (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1850), 48.
                  
                     12 Most of the statistics of this period include all the rivers rather
                            than individual streams.
                  
                     13 James Butler Bowlin, Removal of Obstructions in the 
                                    Mississippi
                                 and its Tributaries (
                                Washington
                            , 1884), 11.
                  
                     14 J. D. B. Debow, ed., DeBow's Review.
                            161, 152.
                  
                     15 Twenty-five bushels to each ton.
               
                     Although a large portion of the river business had been taken
                    over by the railroads by 1865, the local river trade, independent of the coal trade, became much
                    greater than it had been in 1844. The proper accommodation of this larger trade was a matter of
                    national importance because consumers down the river must get the best service at reasonable
                        rates.16
            
            The period from 1875 to 1904 witnessed a magnificent development of through coal traffic from the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     area to points on the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    . After 1904 the mining of coal in western 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     resulted in the loss of much coal traffic to the 
                        Ohio
                    . In spite of this loss, the river regained much trade in other lines so that it still
                    carried over ten million tons of freight. Just before the World War, there was a drop of
                    approximately a million tons. The statistics show a decline from 13,000,000 tons in 1905 to
                    6,000,000 in 1917. This was partly due to reduced operations necessitated by the fact that the
                    canalization projects were incomplete and partly to reduced congressional appropriations. These two
                    conditions combined to divert much traffic from the river.17
            
            The War brought a realization that railways could not adequately handle all the nation's
                    traffic. The Committee on Inland Water Transportation of the Council of National Defense, after an
                    exhaustive survey, reported in favor of diverting as much of the heavy traffic as possible to the
                    rivers and canals.18
            
            The successive completion of the locks and dams has opened up new sections to navigation and has
                    permitted a broader development of transportation on the river. From the low of 6,000,000 tons in
                    1917, the traffic on the 
                        Ohio
                     increased to 15,737,076 tons in 1925; 22,066,937 tons in 1926; and 22,193,396 tons in
                    1927. This meant an increase of 375 per cent since 1917.19
            
            The final completion of the series of locks and dams in 1929, opened to commerce one of the greatest
                    systems of inland waterways to be found anywhere. The 
                        Ohio
                     and its 
                  
                     16 Chief of Engineers, 
                                United States
                             Army, Report of 1867. 245. 262ff. The 178 volumes of these
                                Reports from 1824 to 1986 furnish much data on river transportation.
                            Each Annual Report presents a detailed statement of improvements made to
                            further the navigation of the Ohio River and tributaries. Each volume
                            includes commercial statistics and other historical data.
                  
                     17
                            Transportation in the 
                                    Mississippi
                                 and Ohio Valleys (Transportation Series, Number
                            2), 12.
                  
                     18 W. F. Decker, "
                                Mississippi
                             System of Waterways," Review of Reuiews,, 74, 604.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Pittsburgh
                             Coal Exchange, Do you Realize? (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1922). 11; Chief of Engineers, Report of 1934, 715.
               
                     tributaries drain the most highly developed industrial district
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , if not in the entire world. Enormous deposits of mineral wealth such as coal,
                    fire-clay, and limestone are mined or quarried on or near the river banks. Until quite recently,
                    navigation on the lower end of the river near Cairo was interrupted at low water, but open river
                    dredging operations now prevent stoppage. The Ohio River system, from the
                    standpoint of present water-borne transportation consists of the Ohio River
                    proper, and its principal tributaries. These are: the Allegheny; the Monongahela, with its tributary
                    the Youghiogheny; the Muskingum; the Little Kanawha; the Kanawha; the Big Sandy and its two forks,
                    the Luvisa and the Tug; the 
                        Kentucky
                    ; the Green; the 
                        Cumberland
                    ; and the 
                        Tennessee
                    . Since the completion of the locks and dams in the lower river, the 
                        Ohio
                     itself is navigable the entire distance from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Cairo. The large navigable tributaries are either partially or entirely improved for
                    slackwater navigation.20
            
            The length of the Allegheny is 325 miles, but being filled with rocks, bars, and shoals it is
                    hazardous to navigate. The minimum low water navigable depth is about three feet. At present it is
                    proposed to build eight locks and dams to maintain seven feet of slackwater navigation between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Natrona, and eight feet between Natrona and Riverton, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Four of these dams have been completed to date, and Capt. Thomas E. Clark, President
                    of the Allegheny River Improvement Association, predicts the completion of two
                    more during the next few years.21
            
            The Monongahela River, formed by the junction of Ty-gart
                    River and West Fork, is 128 miles in length. At present it is proposed to build 14 locks
                    and dams between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Fairmont, 
                        West Virginia
                    . A portion of this work was completed by the Monongahela Navigation Company. Seven dams
                    constructed by that company were acquired by the 
                        United States
                     Government in 1897. Several of these have been rebuilt. In addition the government
                    constructed locks and dams, Numbers 8 to 15, between the years 1897 and 1904. Some revision of the
                    plans occurred following the latter year, 
                  
                     20 Transportation Scries, No. 2, 12: House
                            Documents, 62 Cong., S Sen., 1159. See for map, between pages 2 and 3.
                  
                     21 Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931, 67 Cong. 4
                            Sen. 1241; Ohio Valley Improvement Association, Proceedings of the 30th Annual Convention (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1924), 38.
               
                     resulting in one dam being eliminated.22
                    Commerce on this river has greatly increased during the last few years. Twenty-eight million tons of
                    freight were carried on sixty miles of the river in 1929, making it the most intensely navigated
                    river in the world. This occurred, notwithstanding the fact that railroads paralleled it on each
                    side. Transporting coal by water made it possible to save thirty-five cents per ton, as compared
                    with the cost by rail. On the basis of the commerce for 1917, it is estimated this saving would
                    replace every lock and dam on the river every three years. Owing to unusual conditions which exist
                    upon this river it is possible to figure variations and costs rather closely.23
            
            The third river in importance below 
                        Pittsburgh
                     is the Muskingum. It is formed by the junction of the Tuscarawas
                    and Walhonding rivers at 
                  Coshocton, Ohio
               , and flows 107
                    miles to the 
                        Ohio
                     joining that river at 
                        Marietta
                    . It was improved by the state of 
                        Ohio
                     between 1837 to 1841. In 1887 this work, consisting of twelve locks, eleven dams and
                    five lateral canals, was taken over by the federal government. At present it is improved from
                    Marietta to 
                  Dresden, Ohio
               , a distance of ninety-one miles. The last dam constructed was at
                    Ellis, 
                        Ohio
                    , which was completed in 1910. In 1922, 94,917 tons of freight, valued at
                    $1,516,007, were carried on this river. By 1930 the amount had increased to 746,314 tons.
                    Packet connections with 
                        Pittsburgh
                     have been maintained for several years.24
            
            The Little Kanawha River rises in 
                        West Virginia
                     and enters the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                  Parkersburg, West Virginia
               . It is 158 miles long and is improved for a
                    distance of forty-eight miles. The first improvements were made by private corporations who built
                    four locks and dams providing four-foot navigation for forty miles. These dams were purchased by the
                    government in 1905. At present there are five locks and dams, the 
                        United States
                     having built Number 5 in 1891. This improvement made a fairly large commerce possible.
                    Shallow draft boats are used above the last dam. During periods of low water, scarcely six inches of
                    water are available for 
                  
                     22 Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931, 67 Cong., 4
                            Sess., 1223.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid.; E. E. Jennings, "Great Steel Corporations Prove
                            Feasibility of River Transportation, "Manufacturers Record (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1932), UCXXIII, No. 7, 67: Ohio Valley Improvement
                            Association, Proceedings, 30th Annual Convention. 108. Chief of Engineers,
                                Report of 1931, 1352.
                  
                     24 Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931,
                            124–249; ibid., 1369.
               
                     open river navigation. In 1922 the river had a carrying trade
                    of 32,412 tons.25 In 1929 this had increased to 280,525 tons.
            The Kanawha is a continuation of the New River and flows for ninety some miles from the
                        Kanawha Falls to the 
                        Ohio
                    , joining it at Point Pleasant, 
                        West Virginia
                    . All of the river but the upper seven miles is improved. At first the states of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        West Virginia
                     improved the stream by open river methods. At present ten dams, eight movable and two
                    fixed, are in operation, making a six-foot navigable depth available for ninety miles. Large
                    quantities of coal were opened to markets by this improvement. During the five year period ending in
                    1930, the river carried a commerce of one and one-half million tons a year.26
            
            The Big Sandy River is in length one of the lesser tributaries of the 
                        Ohio
                    . It is formed by the union of the Luvisa Fork and Tug Fork at Louisa, 
                        Kentucky
                    . From there it flows northward twenty-seven miles and enters the 
                        Ohio
                     at Catlettsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Its tributaries are much longer than the main stream. Luvisa Fork which rises in 
                        Virginia
                     is 142 miles long, and Tug Fork rising in 
                        West Virginia
                     is 137 miles long. Locks and dams Number 1 and 2 on the Big Sandy were completed in
                    1905, and Number 3 was completed in 1897. These dams were authorized under the acts of June 14,
                    1880, July 13, 1892, and March 3, 1899, providing for dams at Louisa, Buchanan, and Catlettsburg, 
                        Kentucky
                    . A lock on Luvisa Fork at 
                  Gallup,
                            Kentucky
               , and one at Saltpeter, 
                        West Virginia
                    , on Tug Fork, were completed in 1910. One additional dam on each fork has been provided
                    for, but are not yet under construction. The dams now in service form a six-foot navigable depth
                    from the mouth of the Big Sandy to points twelve miles up Tug Fork, and eighteen miles up Luvisa
                    Fork. The commerce on these rivers during the five-year period, 1918 to 1922, ranged from 42,173 to
                    111,012 tons per year. The minimum amount was carried in 192127
            
            The Kentucky River is formed at Beattyville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , by the junction of the three forks, North, Middle, and South. After leaving
                    Beattyville it flows toward the northwest for 255 miles and enters the Ohio
                    river at 
                  Carrollton, Kentucky
               . The first project on this river was completed by
                    the state 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 124–262, 1369.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 125–255. 1381.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 126–258.
               
                     in 1844 and consisted of five locks and dams. This improvement
                    extended for ninety-three miles. The 
                        United States
                     acquired this property in 1879. At present there are fourteen locks and dams in
                    operation, maintaining six-foot navigation to the junction of the forks at Beattyville. The first
                    five dams of this series were completed in 1884; the fourteenth one was opened in 1917. The
                    improvement has made possible an extensive traffic in logs, coal and oil. This trade has increased
                    steadily since 1918. In 1922 it reached a total of 296,381 tons, but by 1930 had dropped to 11,186
                        tons.28
            
            
               Green River rises in 
                  Lincoln county,
                            Kentucky
               , and flows west and northwest
                    for 345 miles, entering the 
                        Ohio
                     eight miles above 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. It is navigable for 196 miles to Mammoth Cave. Its largest tributary,
                        Barren River, is 108 miles in length, and enters Green
                    River, near Wood-bury, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Barren River is navigable to Bowling Green, twenty-nine miles
                    above its mouth. As in the case of the Kentucky River, this system was improved
                    by the state between 1835 and 1841. When the 
                        United States
                     took over the project in 1884, there were five locks giving four-foot navigation to
                    Bowling Green. The four dams on Green River provided navigation to the mouth of
                        Barren River. By completing dams five and six in 1899 and 1905,
                    respectively, slackwater navigation was opened to Mammoth Cave. Boats of five feet draft may
                    navigate the rivers throughout the year. Rough River, another tributary 126
                    miles in length, is improved twenty-nine miles to 
                  Hartford, Kentucky
               .29
            
            Commerce on these three rivers is not very extensive. Rough River commerce is
                    carried in small steam and gasoline boats of less than three feet draft. Its commerce averages about
                    5,000 tons annually. Green and Barren rivers have a combined commerce of about
                    550,000 tons annually.30
            
            The Cumberland River is the second largest tributary of the Ohio
                    river. It is formed in 
                  Harlan county, Kentucky
               , by the junction of Poor and Clover
                    forks and flows into the 
                        Ohio
                     at Smithland. It is about 687 miles in length and is navigable for about 500 miles of
                    this distance. Thirteen locks and dams are at present in operation and twelve are either proposed or
                    under construction. It is expected that Ohio River lock 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 126–366; American Rolling Mills Company, River and Shipping and Industry (
                        Middletown, Ohio
                     ,
                            1928). 8–0; Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931, 1400.
                  
                     29 Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931,
                            127–278.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 1276, 1278, 1404.
               
                     and dam Number 52 will create a six-foot pool to dam F, which
                    is nearing completion. Locks A, B, C, D and E lettering from near 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , have
                    been completed since 1904. Until lock and dam Number 52 (Ohio River) was
                    completed, the channel up to Lock F was dredged.31
            
            Twenty-one additional locks and dams are projected between 
                        Nashville
                     and a point twenty-nine miles below Burn-side, 
                        Kentucky
                    . When completed these will furnish a minimum six-foot slackwater stage. At the present
                    time locks and dams one to seven and twenty-one have been completed. Number eight is under
                    construction at the present time. Although commerce on the 
                        Cumberland
                     is important, it cannot reach its maximum until the completion of lock F at Eddyville, 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1922 the commerce of the river was 287,607 tons. In 1930 it was 2,585,855 tons.32
            
            The Tennessee River is the largest of the tributaries of the 
                        Ohio
                    . It is formed by the junction of the French Broad and Holston
                    rivers just above 
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               . It enters the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                  Paducah, Kentucky
               , 650 miles from 
                        Knoxville
                    . Navigation of this stream from Riverton, 
                        Alabama
                    , to its mouth is practically unimpaired, except during the low water stage. Government
                    operations on the stream below Riverton have been in the nature of open channel work. By this means
                    the 226 mile stretch has been opened to six-foot navigation the greater part of the year. It is
                    proposed to build a lock below 
                  Kingston, Tennessee
               , to provide a six-foot stage. The
                    absence of adequate congressional appropriations, however, has prevented any action being taken in
                    this matter. The main result of the improvements has been to open the river to boats of four to
                    six-feet draft. The average annual commerce of the river is about 2,250,000 tons33
            
            The tributaries of the Ohio River are nearly all lined with coal mines. Many of
                    these are directly on the rivers, or are near enough that the coal can be dumped into barges moored
                    along the banks. Ordinary barges carry from 600 to 1,000 tons and draw six to nine feet of water.
                    This coal is then floated or towed down the river and is unloaded directly at manufacturing plants,
                    also located on the river. However, not all the mines on the river use water for purposes of
                    transportation. 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 115–164.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 116–169, 1310.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 1170 ff., 1810.
               
                     In 1908 a total of 1357 shippers out of 1425 used the railroads
                    entirely. Not infrequently, it is impossible for mines to ship directly to the river because of high
                    rates or inability to get tipple space on the river front.34
            
            Statistics prove that the upper tributaries of the 
                        Ohio
                     are more productive of commerce than the lower ones. This is no doubt in part due to
                    the fact that they are improved more extensively.35 The upper Ohio
                        River is today the greatest producing area for coal and coke in the world. It is also
                    an important iron and steel manufacturing center.36
                    
                        Pittsburgh
                     is at present one of the great ports of the 
                        United States
                    , and it owes its growth largely to the fact that it is at the head of a great system of
                    inland navigation, which gives it a not expensive outlet for its products.37
                    
                        Pittsburgh
                     has about fifty miles of river within its limits, but very little of it is improved.
                    There are very few terminal facilities, but some steps are being taken to improve this condition.
                    There is public coöperation in the handling of local and packet freight, but the handling
                    of coal and steel is mostly under private control.38
            
            Mr. Peyton, whose work has been previously cited, can hardly be said to favor the project of securing
                    a nine-foot slackwater stage. In fact, he makes some rather caustic remarks on the subject. He gives
                    a few figures, however, which indicate the present trend of commerce in the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     district. In part, he says: "Seventy-five per cent of the entire shipment of
                    freight on the Ohio river from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the portion of the Monongahela river in 
                        West Virginia
                     belongs to the Monongahela Consolidated Coal and Coke Company. Of the balance,
                    twenty-three per cent belongs to six other coal companies and two per cent to all other
                        interestsquot;.39 He states that the amount of coal carried in 1907 by the
                        Monongahela River Consolidated Coal and Coke Company (in ton-miles) was
                    1,864,112,480 miles; the six other companies mentioned by him, 559,931,388 ton-miles; and all other
                    traffic, 40,253,392 ton-miles.40
            
            
               
                  34 John Howe Peyton, The American Transportation Problem (
                            Louisville
                        , 1908), 112; Harold Glenn Moulton, "Railways vs.
                            Waterways," Journal of Political Soimce (1918), 898.
               
                  35 Chief of Engineers, Report of 1931, I. See Index for
                            Rivers.
               
                  36 W. G. Irwin, ".Waterway Improvement on the Ohio
                            River," Illustrated Scientific American (August 15,
                        1903) LXXXIX, 117.
               
                  37 Edwin E. Sparks, "The Influence of the Ohio
                        River in Western Expansion," Ohio Valley Historical
                        Association, Proceedings, 1911, 11.
               
                  38 American Rolling Mill Company, op. cit.,
                        7–8.
               
                  39 John Peyton, of. tit., 11–17.
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 11–17.
            
            
            The fact that the Ohio River system until recently has not been fully improved
                    has to some degree retarded the development of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Notwithstanding this the city has become the seventh port of importance in the 
                        United States
                    . It is exceeded by 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay, 
                        Duluth
                    -Superior, Hampton Roads, and 
                        Los Angeles
                    . In 1922 it was in fourth place. Conditions are such that other than railroad
                    facilities are necessary to care for the vast traffic which centers there. Although there was once a
                    time when the railroads opposed the improvement of the river, they now realize that it is the only
                    thing that can relieve the congestion.41
            
            At present coal barges and boats from the upper tributaries of the 
                        Ohio
                    , carrying from 500 to 1,000 tons are collected in the pools immediately below 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to await a rise in the river. These small fleets are usually made up of boats in sizes
                    of 3,000 tonnage or less (coal), as that is a more convenient size for the locks. At 
                        Pittsburgh
                     these are collected in fleets of 10,000 to 15,000 tonnage and sent to 
                        Louisville
                    . After passing the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal these are combined into fleets of 35,000 tons or more, and in that form are taken
                    by powerful tow-boats to 
                        New Orleans
                    .42
            
            Coal transportation has been one of the greatest factors in Ohio River commerce.
                    Coal transportation from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     is much greater than it was in the past. This trade out of 
                        Cincinnati
                     increased from 56,434,70743 bushels to 62,572,000 bushels, between
                    1893 and 1906. The increase in coal transportation for the entire river between 1850 and 1996 was
                    from 12,000,000 to 257,000,000 bushels. With the exception of coal and lumber the commerce of the 
                        Ohio
                     has degenerated to purely local trade. Although there are over forty railroad crossings
                    between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Cairo, there are few means of transfer between the railways and waterways.44
            
            Several reasons may be given for the decline in river trade. The railways have a better and wider
                    area of distribution 
                  
                     41 W. G. Irwin, "Waterway Improvement", loc. cit., 117; National Rivers and Harbora Congress,
                            pamphlet, quoting Chief of Engineers, Reports of 1034, II.
                  
                     42 Emory R. Johnson, "Inland Waterways, their relation to
                            Transportation," American Academy of Political and Social Soience
                            (Philadelphi, 1892), II (Supple-ment), 36–63.
                  
                     43 Eighty pounds to the bushel.
                  
                     44 H. G. Moulton, "Railways vs.
                            Waterways," loc. cit., 67, 94, 392.
               
                     due to interline transfers and rates. Wharfage, truck hauls and
                    transfers between the river and the railroads take away a large part of the profits of river trade.
                    The fact that there are no adequate storage facilities and the uncertainty of schedules also tend to
                    handicap trade by water. Only the building of sufficient terminals and the standardizing of
                    schedules will solve the problem adequately."
            The best means of returning to an increased river traffic is to secure harmonious relations between
                    railway and water lines.46 Some means should be devised to protect river lines
                    from unfair railroad competition. A plan should be adopted for an interchange of freight between
                    railroads and waterways. Otherwise the boat lines will still be under the control of the
                        railroads.47 At times railroads have established competitive boat lines, or
                    have purchased interest in existing lines in order to kill competition where such railroads and
                    river lines parallel. This has frequently occurred on the Ohio river. This type
                    of competition is disastrous to river trade.48
            
            More recently railroads have changed their attitude towards the project. After carefully studying the
                    possibilities of using a modern river transportation system, properly engineered, to attain an
                    average ton-mile cost, including legitimate charges for a round trip between 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    , several high-salaried railroad executives reached the conclusion that no railroad can
                    compete with river transportation using modern methods properly engineered. Railroads are beginning
                    to realize that the railroads and a modern river transportation project each have a non-competitive
                    service to render to the shipper. They are even offering to cooperate.49
            
            Because of the large number of industrial cities which are located along its banks, the
                        Ohio River has great prospects for future development. Such cities as
                            
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville, Evansville
                and Paducah have a thriving trade among
                    themselves and other cities in the Mississippi valley. They have been waiting
                    for the completion of the nine-foot 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 403; Albert B. Hart, "Biography of a River and Harbor
                            Bill," American Historical Association Papers, 1889, III,
                            18–96; Albert Bettinger, "The Future of Navigation on our
                                Western Rivers," Ohio Valley
                            Historical Association, Annual Report. 1911, 84.
                  
                     46
                            Senate Document, No. 301, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., If, 10.
                  
                     47 A. B. Hart, "Biography of a River and Harbor
                            Bill." loc cit. 165: Chief of Inland and Coastwise Waterways
                            Service, Annual Report(
                                Washington
                            , 1923), 8. 9, 10.
                  
                     48 Hart, "Biography of a River and Harbor Bill", loc. eit., 158.
                  
                     49 E. E. Jennings, "Great Steel Corporations," loc. cit., 64.
               
                     project, to increase this.50 Great freight
                    steamers are now being built to handle the traffic that will have to be accommodated since the
                    system of locks and dams is completed.51 In a little pamphlet issued in 1922,
                    the Ohio Valley Improvement Association said in part: "Notwithstanding
                    this slow progress of the work… in anticipation of the ultimate completion, towns and
                    cities along its course have either actually erected, or are planning to erect suitable terminals
                    and loading places for the speedy and cheap handling and transfer of freight and cargoes, and in
                    some instances most extensive private terminals have been erected and others are
                        contemplated."52 Some of the cities that have planned to establish
                    public terminals are 
                  Pittsburgh, Steubenville, Portsmouth,
                            Cincinnati, Louisville
                and 
                        Evansville
                    . During the past few years several companies that have used the river for
                    transportation have been shipping by river and inquiries reported to the engineers' office
                    at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     indicate that others contemplate using that means as soon as conditions warrant.
            Usually the terminal charges on either railroads or river equal or exceed the entire cost of
                    transportation. Although the government has not undertaken the building of free public terminals,
                    such a course would be desirable. Such terminals as now exist are not adequate for satisfactory
                    public use. Most cities have felt that terminals should not be built until the nine-foot project was
                    completed. As most of the Ohio River cities are aware of the advantages that
                    are accruing, now that the new project is opened, it is anticipated that many such terminals will be
                    erected. In fact many have already been completed.53
            
            The railroads of the country have practically reached the limit in their efforts to serve the public.
                    The people have already begun to realize this, and are devising means to better use the navigable
                    waterways as a part of the transportation system.54 Statements by Mr. Markham,
                    president of the 
                        Illinois
                     Central railroad, and by vice-presidents McCrea and Lee of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     railroad indicate that the railroads 
                  
                     50 Moulton. "Railways us.
                            Waterways", loc. cit., 392, 393.
                  
                     51 Irwin, Waterway Improvement", loc. cit.,
                            117.
                  
                     52
                            Ohio Valley Improvement Association, Statement of
                            Facts (pamphlet) 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1922, 9.
                  
                     53"Ohio River Terminals," 3.
                                House Document, No. 661, 66 Cong. 2 Sess.
                  
                     54 J. E. Smith, "The Relation of Inland Waterways to Foreign
                            Trade," Mississippi Valley Waterways Association, Bulletin, 1922, 318.
               
                     of the country are so far inadequate to care for the commerce
                    of the nation. Instead of the railroads preparing for the increase, more mileage has been abandoned
                    than has been built. Mr. Lee stated that traffic as measured by ton-miles doubles once in a decade.
                    C. A. Newton, of 
                        Missouri
                    , who quotes from the above mentioned persons, continues: "The thing that the
                    people of this country are interested in is an adequate system of transportation, made up of
                    railways, waterways and highways, constituting a system able to meet the commercial needs of the
                    country, capable of aiding our commercial growth and development and which will produce
                    transportation at the least possible cost."55
            
            Finding themselves pressed for transportation facilities due to after-war rail conditions, leading
                    steel corporations sought supplementary facilities. Waterways were pressed into service and the
                    Jones and Laughlin Steel Corporation sent their first shipments down the Ohio and
                        Mississippi rivers in October, 1921. The service has been greatly hampered by lack of
                    water which necessitated the making of irregular trips. It is expected that this new type of service
                    may cause the slumping commerce of the 
                        Ohio
                     to rise again.56
            
            Since Jones and Laughlin sent the first barge down the river, other companies have seen the
                    possibility of such a service. Among these are the Wheeling Steel Corporation, Carnegie Steel
                    Company, 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Steel Company, Inland Steel Company, and the 
                        Illinois
                     Steel Company. After the steel has been shipped down the river it is frequently
                    transferred to railroad cars to be sent to points farther west. Products sent in this manner include
                    wire, nails, bars, fence and similar types of metal parts.57
            
            Coal traffic, as previously stated, is chiefly under the control of large corporations. One such
                    corporation owns nearly 100 tow-boats and 3,000 barges, in which this corporation carries over
                    4,000,000 tons of coal annually. Although only one corporation has such an enormous trade the others
                    rank very high. Most of the coaling trade originates at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and forms much of the through shipping trade to Mississippi river
                        points.58
            
            
               
                  55 Cleveland A. Newton, "Transportation and Rates: A Strong
                        Argument for Water Transportation," Manufacturers Record, February
                        15, 1923, 75.
               
                  56 Jennings, "Great Steel Corporations", loc. cit., 67.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., 68, 69.
               
                  58 E. R. Johnson, op. cit., 347, 848, 349.
            
            
            One of the arguments used in favor of the project is that it will reduce railroad rates. This is no
                    doubt true, but that should not be made the basis for making improvements. The railroads are
                    necessities that should be correlated with the waterways projects. There is no economy in expending
                    money upon improvements that will not be used, merely to make reductions which might as easily be
                    gained by legislation.59 In the first place it is unfair to compare relative
                    rates on railroads and improved waterways. In the former case, the right-of-way is maintained by
                    private companies, while in the latter case it is done at government expense. If they are to be
                    maintained upon an equal basis, the government must charge tolls on traffic passing the locks.
                    Basing these upon the actual investment, the rates would be rather high on commerce as it now
                        exists.60
            
            C. A. Newton, in 1923, stated that the 
                        Mississippi
                     Barge Line, a government corporation, has unquestionably demonstrated the economy of
                    water transportation. This company carried freight at a rate of 3.31 mills per ton-mile, while the
                    railroad rate during the same year was 10.78 mills per ton-mile. Taking the entire year as a basis,
                    the Line lost money as a part of its route lay in unimproved river. Low water forced it to suspend
                    operations for three months, causing a deficit for the year. During the other nine months it made a
                    profit of a half-million dollars.61
            
            Although many extravagant claims have been made in favor of river improvement by various individuals
                    and associations there can be no doubt that traffic will be decidedly increased. The Ohio
                        Valley Improvement Association lays much stress upon its belief that there will be a
                    decided increase in manufacturing and trade throughout the Ohio Valley because
                    of it. Between 1919 and 1921 a total of $31,842,000 was expended upon new boats and
                    barges and much more has been spent that was not recorded by the Association. Much more will be
                    spent now that the project is completed.62
            
            Throughout the history of river commerce, the Ohio River has had a much larger
                    tonnage trade than the Mississippi River or any of its other tributaries. This
                    is because 
                  
                     59
                            Senate Document, No. 301, loc. cit., –0.
                  
                     60 Moulton, "Railways us.
                            Waterways", loc. cit., 404.
                  
                     61
                            Ohio Valley Improvement Association, Proceeding, 29th
                            Annual Convention, 19.
                  
                     62
                            Ohio Valley Improvement Association, Statement of
                            Facts, 8.
               
                     the coal and steel tonnage originating at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and along the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers is enormous. This
                    traffic furnishes the bulk of the freight traffic on the Ohio River.63
            
            It has been pointed out that the project to provide a minimum navigable depth of nine feet the year
                    around was not completed until October, 1929, the same month in which economists trace the beginning
                    of the depression which proved so disastrous to business. With a general shrinkage in business
                    activity, it is only natural to believe that many firms which might have used the river to
                    advantage, would not, or could not, risk the large sums of money required to establish barge lines,
                    and thereby deprived the river of much traffic which normally might have been expected. In spite of
                    this condition, however, as may be seen from a perusal of commercial statistics, the value and
                    tonnage of the commodities transported on the river resisted the general business trend and did not
                    shrink in the same degree, according to indices, as other lines of business activity. As a matter of
                    fact, while the total tonnage transported is still less than in 1929, the increase in value of the
                    shipments during 1933. scarcely a normal business year generally, exceeded the value of shipments in
                    1929, the peak year of "prosperityquot;. Reports, as yet unpublished, show a continuous
                    increment in value of shipment.
            The increase is illustrated by the shipment from steel mills near 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and at 
                  Portsmouth, Ohio
               , to the lower 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    . Total shipments to the 
                        Mississippi
                     in the five years from 1926 to 1930 amounted to 1,350,000 tons, increasing from 160,000
                    tons to 336,750 tons per year. Large shipments of crude oil are being made from the
                        Kentucky River and from 
                  Owensboro, Kentucky
               , to 
                        Louisville
                    , while there are smaller movements of oil and gasoline in other parts of the river. The
                    commercial effect in the upper and middle sections of the river was reflected in the marked increase
                    in the amount of coal shipped from the mines along the Monongahela river to
                    industrial plants on the Ohio River at Aliquippa and 
                  Midland, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                  Steubenville, Ohio
               , and the
                    shipment of coal from the Kanawha River and 
                        Huntington
                     to points downstream on the 
                        Ohio
                    .64
            
            
               
                  63 Johnson, op. cit., 329.
               
                  64 See Reports of Chief of Engineers since 1930.
            
            
            Passenger business on the river has fluctuated during the last sixty years as much as has freight
                    traffic. The 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Packet Company continues to run a fleet of passenger boats on the upper river. Also the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     Packet Company runs several steamboats between 
                        Louisville
                     and Stephensport. Among the famous boats of the latter line have been the Tarascon, the Tell City, the 
                        
                            Nashville
                        
                     and the Lizzie May. Many old time river men are optimistic in their belief
                    that the recently completed improvements will bring back the old river trade, because,
                    "Where in the old days boatmen waited for months for the river to rise, they now find the
                    needed depth… every day in the year.65
            
            The new spirit on the river is exemplified in the monster celebration of October 18, 1929, which
                    accompanied the dedication of the new system of locks and dams. All the large cities and many of the
                    smaller ones are partners in the prosperity that the 
                        Ohio
                     water route makes possible. In commemoration of the completion of the project the
                        Ohio Valley Improvement Association arranged a river parade to start at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and end at 
                        Cairo
                    . The wharf at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     was lined with twenty-five vessels steamed up and ready to go. President Herbert
                    Hoover, aboard the Greenbrier made the trip as far as 
                        Louisville
                     and made speeches at many places along the way.66 Thus, a new era
                    in Ohio river commerce was inaugurated.67
            
            
               
                  65
                        Literary Digest (1929). CIII, 2–0.
               
                  66 Frederick Way, Jr., The Log of the Betsey Ann (
                            New York
                        , 1933), 370; Wilbur F. Decker, 
                            Mississippi
                         System of Waterways", loc. cit., 59–09;
                        Edmund L. Daley, "Modern Argosies on the 
                            Ohio
                        ," Review of Reviews, LXXX, 68.
               
                  67 Current information may be obtained from the Secretary of the National
                        Riven and Harbors Congress, of 
                            Washington
                        , D. C. Current statistics may also be obtained from the Secretary of the
                            Ohio Valley Improvement Association, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , and from the Divisional Office of Engineers, 
                            United States
                         Army at 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , Hunting-ton (W. 
                            Va.
                        ). 
                     Cincinnati, Louisville
                  , Chattanoogn, and 
                            Nashville
                        . The Annual Reports of the Chief of Engineers are in all
                        libraries that have been designated by Congress as depositories of government publications. Niles' Weekly Register, DeBow's Review, and contemporary
                        newspapers of Ohio River cities are valuable for commercial statistics of
                        the early period. Complete, large-scale maps of the Ohio River are to be
                        found in The Ohio River
                   ("Charts, Drawings, and
                        descriptions of features affecting navigation. War Department rules and regulations for the
                        River, its tributaries, navigable depths and tables of distances for tributaries), 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1916.
            
         
         
         
            The Panama Libel Cases*
            
            CLYDE PEIRCB
            
            The Roosevelt-Panama Libel Cases arose out of a melodramatic series of events connected with the
                    purchase of the 
                        Panama
                        Canal Zone
                    , which find their focal points before and after the Presidential election of 1908. The
                    affair became intensified after the election, led to a second congressional investigation of the
                    purchase, and resulted in the criminal libel cases instigated by President Theodore Roosevelt
                    against Joseph Pulitzer of the 
                        New York
                    
                    World and Delevan Smith of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. The Pulitzer case reached the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court. The author has had access to newspaper clippings covering the cases from
                    the shelves of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, and to the personal clippings of President Roosevelt, which were forwarded
                    from the Roosevelt Memorial House Library in 
                        New York City
                    .
            A brief account of the acquisition of the 
                        Canal Zone
                     is necessary to a better understanding of the cases. After the bankruptcy of the old de
                    Lessepps Company, a New Panama Canal Company was organized to revive the project. The outstanding
                    character in the reorganization was Philippee Bunau-Varilla. In the 
                        United States
                     two dummy organizations were formed to Americanize the project. The character in this
                    action was William Nelson Cromwell.
            Bunau-Varilla was a French engineer aspiring to de Lessepps' fame. His efforts took him to
                    several nations, but in the 
                        United States
                     he travelled more widely arousing American interest in his company, and, in events
                    following, he was labeled by some as the "arch-conspirator" in the Panama revolt
                    and in the purchase of the Zone by the 
                        United States
                    .1
            
            Cromwell was designated by some as the "arch corruptionist" in the affair. He was a 
                        New York
                     attorney and his clients were classed as "trustsquot;. Further, he was
                    attorney for the Panama Railroad, the New Panama Canal Company, and later for the Republic of
                    Panama. In the framing of the Republican platform in 1900, he was able to change a 
                  
                     * This paper was read before one of the sessions of the
                            annual Indiana History Conference in the Lincoln Hotel at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on December 12, 1936.
                  
                     1 Henry F. Prtngle. Theodore Roosevelt, A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1931) See his two chapters, "The Setting For a Melo-Drama"
                            and "I Took Panama," for an excellent short account of the purchase of the 
                                Canal Zone
                             and the Libel Cases. See also The Story of Panama ("Hearings
                            on the Rainey Resolutions before the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
                            Representatives," 1913), 70; 
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct. 4, 1909.
               
                     plank which favored a Nicaraguan Canal to one in support of an
                    "isthmian canalquot;. On one occasion, he was reprimanded for maintaining a strong lobby in
                    Congress favoring the Panama Canal site. Soon after, however, he contributed $60,000 to
                    the Republican campaign fund.2
            
            After some previous reports, the Walker Canal Commission made a final report. This favored a canal
                    through Nicaragua since the French Panama site and equipment would cost $40,000,000. The
                    Hepburn Bill incorporated the committee's report and it passed the House by 308 to 2 on
                    January 9, 1902. From that date until the bill came up in the Senate is a most interesting period.
                    During this time Bunau-Varilla and Cromwell made names for themselves. They had three things to do:
                    get the company to sell for $40,000,000; get the canal bill changed to permit the
                    possibility of still selecting the Panama line; and get 
                        Colombia
                     to grant the transfer. Consent in regard to sale and transfer was obtained, but
                    changing the Hepburn Bill took some scheming. Bunau-Varilla set out to make the Senate
                    "volcano conscious", since some eruptions had just occurred in 
                        Nicaragua
                    . Buying Nicaraguan stamps picturing an active volcano, he pasted a stamp in the center
                    of ninety different letters and wrote the following: "Young nations like to put on their
                    coat of arms what most symbolizes their moral domain or characteristics of their soil. What have the
                    Nicaraguans chosen to characterize their coat of arms or their postage stamps? Volcanoes!"
                    He mailed these letters just a few days before the bill was to come up in the Senate so as not to
                    allow time for newspaper rebuttal3 The letters with Senator Hanna's
                    speech carried the day. The Hepburn bill was amended to authorize the President to purchase the
                    Nicaraguan site unless the French rights to the Panama route could be bought for
                    $40,000,000. The bill as amended passed the Senate by a vote of 42 to 34 on June 25,
                    1902. The same so-called "stamp act" worked on the House. The way was clear except
                    that the Senate demanded a satisfactory treaty with 
                        Colombia
                     within a reasonable time to sanction the transfer and secure proper rights in the canal
                    region.
            That treaty now occupied Bunau-Varilla and Cromwell. Until this time President Roosevelt was
                    inactive, but he now 
                  
                     2
                            Story of Panama. 7–1; 30–02 passim.
                  
                     3 Philip Bunau-Varilla. Nicaraqua or Panama, 31;
                            Prinsgle, Roosevelt, 306.
               
                     got busy to help secure the treaty. Drafts were drawn by both
                    countries but rejected or drastically amended by the 
                        United States
                     Senate. A final draft was sent to the Colombian Government. Dictator Marroquin finally
                    convened his Senate at 
                        Bogota
                    . This body sat all summer in 1903 and finally adjourned without ratifying the draft.
                    The adjournment occurred in the face of continued threats of dire consequences by the 
                        United States
                     made through Secretary of State John Hay, Bunau-Varilla and others, possibly including
                    Roosevelt. It was said in 1914 that an American railroad lobby prevented ratification.4
            
            President Roosevelt was baffled. He was advised that he could go ahead building the canal or take the
                    Nicaraguan route. Word of an impending revolt in 
                        Panama
                     stayed his hand. Curiously enough a prophetic article was published by Joseph
                    Pulitzer's paper, the World, describing just what was going to happen in 
                        Panama
                    . This article, it was later found, was written by Cromwell's press agent.
            Cromwell and Bunau-Varilla were busy and President Roosevelt ordered 
                        United States
                     ships to draw near to Panama. All knew such a revolt could not be successful without
                    aid. Meantime 
                        Colombia
                     heard of trouble brewing in 
                        Panama
                     and sent troops to Colon. On November 2, 1903, the 
                        United States
                    
                    S.S. Nashville arrived off Colon. On the same day, President Roosevelt issued his
                    famous "50-mile order" to prevent foreign troops from landing in 
                        Panama
                    . In the evening of the same day 500 Colombian troops landed at Colon, since the 
                        
                            Nashville
                        
                     did not receive the order until next day. However, Cromwell's agents took the
                    Colombian officers by subterfuge to 
                        Panama City
                     and held them.
            At 
                        Panama City
                    , the Colombian governor was favorable to the revolution, which was scheduled for 8:00
                    A.M. on November 3, 1903, during a band concert. At Colon the American consul informed
                    acting-Secretary of State, Francis B. Loomis, that a revolt was in progress. Loomis in turn notified
                    the consul at 
                        Panama City
                     and asked him to keep the State Department informed. The consul at 
                        Panama City
                     wired back that no revolt had yet occurred, but it was expected that night. These
                    communications later led to the suspicion of American instigation. However, at 5:00 P.M, at 
                  
                     4
                            Morning Searchlight (
                        Redding, California
                     )
                            Feb. 24, 1904; Pringle, Roosevelt; Story of Panama.
               
                     Panama City, the revolt broke out prematurely and all was over
                    by 5:49. Officers of 
                        Colombia
                     were paid off by the agents of Cromwell and Bunau-Varilla, and, a few days later, Dr.
                    Manuel Amador, Panama Railroad physician, was elected President of Panama. Contrary to international
                    law, American consuls were ordered to recognize the Republic officially. On November 10
                    Bunau-Varilla had himself appointed Ambassador from Panama to the 
                        United States
                    , even though envoys were at the time already en route to 
                        Washington
                    , and a treaty was signed between our federal government and Panama on November 18, just
                    sixteen days after the revolt.5 Thus ended what President Roosevelt described in
                    these words: "It must be a matter of pride to every honest American, proud of the good name
                    of his country that the acquisition of the canal… [was] as free from scandal as the
                    public acts of George Washington and Abraham Lincolnquot;.
            Payment of the $40,000,000 was made through J. P. Morgan and Company. According to
                    Cromwell, the money was all paid to a bank in 
                        Paris
                     and then divided between the receivers of the old Company and the New Panama Canal
                    Company. The papers, equipment and other belongings of the old company were turned over to officials
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . Some of the papers were sent to 
                        Washington
                     and some to Panama.
            The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal, edited by Colonel Henry Watterson, charged corruption from the
                    beginning. Bunau-Varilla defended the deal through the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun. Watterson said the $40,000,000 was for the thieves in 
                        France
                     and "grey wolves of the American Senatequot;. On January 17, 1904, the World published nearly a full page article charging corruption. Neither gave any
                    source of information, and no names were mentioned.
            In February, 1904, national banks were ordered to be ready to make the payment and one bank president
                    said that about one half the money would remain in the 
                        United States
                    .'6 The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times asserted that the whole thing was more understandable now that
                    "some of our blessed Yankees" were in on it.7 Agitation was
                    kept up by the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal, 
                  
                     5 J. H. Latane; Amerioan Foreign Policy (
                                New York
                             1927), 517 passim; Story of Panama, 73 passim; Leander T.
                            Chamberlain "A Chapter of National Dishonor," North American
                                Review (Feb., 1912), CXCV, 14–74.
                  
                     6
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Timet, February 4. 9, 1904.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid.
               
                     and Senator John T. Morgan from 
                        Alabama
                     was able to get a Senate investigation. His chief witness was Cromwell, but he refused
                    to answer pertinent questions on grounds of professional ethics. Asked to produce a list of
                    stockholders of the New Panama Canal Company, he replied that none existed.
            According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, William B. McKinley of 
                        Illinois
                     was to be drafted as Treasurer of the Republican National Committee. Apparently
                    Cromwell saw to it that George R. Sheldon was put in the position.8 Sheldon was
                    a corporation lawyer. Advance sheets of the Democratic Textbook, appearing in
                    August, incorporated the foregoing information from the News. A month later the News asked whose $50,000 it was that Cromwell contributed, his or
                    Harriman's? It also charged that the change from Nicaragua to Panama "was all done
                    on the basis of ‘a consideration’ "9
            
            On October 1 William J. Curtis, a partner of Cromwell filed a complaint in the District
                    Attorney's office charging that attempts were being made to blackmail Cromwell. The alleged
                    "blackmailers" had charged that an American syndicate made money in the Canal deal
                    and mentioned Charles P. Taft and Douglas Robinson, the latter a brother-in-law of President
                    Roosevelt. On October 3 the World published the alleged blackmailer's
                    story in an early edition. In a later city edition, it published the story with Cromwell's
                    denial. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News received the early edition only and did not know of Cromwell's
                    public denial.
            On October 6 the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News published a 
                        Paris
                     dispatch on the same subject, but named Charles P. Taft, Cromwell and J. P. Morgan. The
                    correspondent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News tore this article out of the Daily News and sent it to his
                    paper, which published a similar article together with an editorial.10 On
                    October 8 the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Journal published an article, entitled "Charles P. Taft and the Big
                    Canalquot;. On the same day a News item mentioned "The
                    Cromwell-Morgan-C.P. Taft Panama Canal Deal" as a big campaign question from which some
                    serious charges might develop. On the next day, the News made editorial comment to
                    the effect that the public should know the truth before election day. On October 14 an Associated
                    Press dispatch stated that all records 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Newt, July 8, 1908.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., Sept. 26, 1908: Panama Label Case (by 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Nees), 7.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 7, 292.
               
                     of who got the $40,000,000 were destroyed on the eve
                    of the Republican National Convention in 
                        Chicago
                    .11
            
            Meantime the World tried to get at the facts and employed a lawyer, a member of the
                    House of Commons. He investigated in 
                        Paris
                     and reported that in all his experience the records of a corporation had never been so
                    completely covered up or destroyed. On the other hand, the News made no effort to
                    get the facts, but relied on other newspaper articles, especially those in the World. Louis Howland, News staff member, on the witness stand on one
                    occasion said: "We hope that the 
                        New York
                    
                    World… will persist. It may be short on evidence for a time, but it can
                    be long on presentation… ", by which "He meant that they
                    couldn't prove it to the satisfaction of a cross-examining lawyer, but they might be
                    morally certain of itquot;. Without a doubt, other papers acted as did the News.
            On October 20 the News reported that a gang of speculators got the money and that
                    vehement denial was not proof. Next day the World wrote that Gen. G. W. Davis,
                    governor of the 
                        Panama
                        Canal Zone
                    , was dismissed because he claimed to have found evidence of graft in the deal. The News stated that some "select manipulators" worked out an
                    international transaction which "reeked with deceit, sharp practices and graft",
                    and declared that the deal took its place with the "credit Mobilier, the Whiskey Ring
                    thefts, and the Star Route fraudsquot;. About this time, the Democratic party press announced that
                    Representative Henry F. Rainey of 
                        Illinois
                     would demand a Congressional investigation. However, the Democratic committee that
                    investigated the story turned it down for lack of bona fide evidence.
            The Omaha World-Herald brought Sheldon of the Republican National Committee into
                    the deal, and the Rocky Mountain News brought in Mark Hanna. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Journal declared that the records were in 
                        Washington
                     and that, since the canal belonged to the 
                        United States
                    , the people should be able to see the records, adding that, if President Roosevelt
                    didn't furnish them, the public could draw its own conclusions.
            On October 29 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News published C. P. Taft's denial, but contended that he failed to show
                    evidence or proof. On November 2, the night before election day, the 
                  
                     11
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            
                                Inter Ocean
                            , Oct. 14, 1909; Panama Libel Case, 298; 
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct. 14, 1909.
               
                    
                    News stated editorially that election day was here yet the truth of the deal was
                    unknown to the public.
            The result of the election gave the News a moral victory. William H.
                    Taft's majority was only some 10,000 votes in Indiana, while ten of the thirteen
                    representatives elected in the state were Democrats, and one senator would be a Democrat. One
                    citizen who must have resented the activities of the News was William D. Foulke of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. On December 7 an Associated Press dispatch revealed the contents of a letter
                    from Foulke to President Roosevelt calling the latter's attention to enclosed News editorials. The dispatch also gave President Roosevelt's reply to Foulke. It
                    was, briefly, that the records were in 
                        Washington
                     and any reputable citizen could see them; that the public had received detailed
                    knowledge of the deal; that a syndicate existed was a lie; that Robinson was lied about for that
                    reason; that Delevan Smith of the News was a "conspicious offender against the laws of
                    honesty and truthfulness, but he does not stand alone. He occupies the same evil eminence with such
                    men as Mr. Laffan of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun, editorials of whose paper you or others have from time to time called to my
                    attention, just as you have those of the Newsquot;.12 No mention was made of
                    Pulitzer of the World.
            Thus, after at least five months, President Roosevelt took public notice of the various charges and
                    picked out only the News and Sun. Delevan Smith and Laffan were
                    made members of the famous "Ananias Clubquot;.
            Smith, in a dignified manner, stated that the articles were published in routine fashion, that the
                    information came from a prominent 
                        New York
                     paper, and that he was not in 
                        Indianapolis
                     when the articles referred to were written and published. A few days later the News asked, editorially, "Who Got the Money?"13
            
            Laffan, however, refused membership in a club when appointment to it came from one whose letter
                    "took its place among the most valued incunabula of veracity", and from one. who,
                    if he was in a gentleman's club of private citizens, would be thrown out for such methods
                    of personal attack.
            Roosevelt had made several errors in his letter and these were especially pointed out by the World on December 8,1908. This paper had been most vociferous in the matter and
                    thus 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Dec. 7, 1908.
                  
                     13
                            lbid., editorial, Dec. 10, 1908.
               
                     was jilted by the omission of Pulitzer's name. It
                    demanded a congressional investigation at once. The article read, in part: 
                        That the U.S. Government paid $40,000,000 for the deal is not questioned. But who
                            got the money?
                        President Roosevelt's reply to this… question is… a string of
                            abusive and defamatory epithets. But he also makes the following statements as truthful
                            information…:
                        "The U.S. Government did not pay a cent of the $40,000,000 to any
                            American citizen. The Government paid… directly to the French Government, getting
                            the receipt of the liquidator appointed by the French Government to receive same.
                        "The U.S. Government has not the slightest knowledge as to the particular
                            individuals among whom the French Government distributed the same.
                        "So far as I know, there was no syndicate; there certainly was no syndicate in the 
                                United States
                             that to my knowledge had any dealings with the Government directly or
                            indirectly."
                        To the best of the World's knowledge and belief each and all of
                            these statements… are untrue, and Mr. Roosevelt must have known they were untrue
                            when he made them.
                    
            
            The World further stated that Cromwell was the only man who knew and that
                    Cromwell's confidants were Theodore Roosevelt and Elihu Root; that Cromwell consummated the
                    revolt, and arranged the terms of payment through J. P. Morgan; that this was all in the original
                    story of the World; that the World accepted Mr.
                    Roosevelt's challenge; that, if Roosevelt had cared for the truth, he could have read
                    Cromwell's testimony of 1906 to see how Cromwell distributed the money; that Roosevelt
                    could have read the "syndicate subscription agreement" on page 1150, volume II, of
                    the testimony before the committee, and have seen for himself. The World declared
                    that fraud was insignificant when the "President of the 
                        United States
                    , issued a public statement… full of flagrant untruth, reeking with
                    misstatements, challenging line by line the testimony of his associate, Cromwell, and the official
                    records…. "
            Some questions may be asked. Why did Roosevelt lambast Laffan and Smith and omit the World or Pulitzer? Then, why did Pulitzer "accept Roosevelt's
                    challenge"? And, why did Roosevelt wait so long to acknowledge the alleged frauds? These
                    questions cannot be answered at this writing. Currency was given to the idea that, since the News supported Fairbanks as a presidential nominee, there was a close friendship
                    between the editor of the News and Fairbanks. Some said  Smith felt that he was not given proper consideration as to some Oliver
                    typewriters and linotype machines that his companies offered to sell the government.14 Smith and Fairbanks were cousins and a belief was apparent among some that Fairbanks
                    was interested in the News company. The News alleged that the real offense was
                    that "it has refused to burn incense before a man whose nostrils are greedy for
                    incensequot;. This meant, support Taft's candidacy. In a different vein the News mentioned "The President's latest… hot
                    stuff—decidedly hot; altogether stuff", and claimed that he was "Just
                    getting into shape for the African tripquot;.
            The 
                        Nashville
                    
                    Tennessean put it in jingle thus: 
                        Let not any plebeian rabble, Mock Smith and Laffan thus laid low; 'Twas no common
                            clout that felled them—'Twas the ‘Big
                            Stick’ struck the blow. Three cheers for America—on March
                                5,1909.15
                  
                    
            
            There was support for the President's acts. The Milwaukee Sentinel said:
                    "It is the anger of an honest man who has slaved for the publicquot;.16
                    The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune held that the story of the President's critics was absurd.17 Many other papers approved his stand.
            Things seemed rather quiet at the World office for a few days, which led the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal to ask: "Where are you, Mr. Pulitzer? Step right to the
                    front and the Courier-Journal will stand right behind you."18
            
            Pulitzer, who had been yachting for several months, when informed of the affair, remarked to his
                    editors: "If there is any trouble you fellows are sure to be in on itquot;.19
            
            On December 12 the World published an editorial entitled "On
                    Roosevelt's Veracity", and demanded an investigation to find out "Who Got
                    the Money?"
            On December 14 the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Times-Star, owned by Charles P. Taft, published that gentleman's denial
                    and stated that he reserved the right to sue for redress. The 
                        Boston
                    
                    Transcript suggested that it would be better for the government to sue since it
                    had the secret service, statistical factories, loyalty of federal employees, and the power of public
                    attention.
            
               
                  14
                        
                            St. Paul
                        
                        News, Dec. 10, 1908; 
                            South Bend
                        
                        Times, Dec. 8, 1908.
               
                  15
                        
                            Nashville
                        
                        Tennesaeean, Dec. 8, 1908.
               
                  16 Milwaukee Sentinel. Dec. 10, 1908.
               
                  17
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune. Dec. 11, 1908.
               
                  18
                        
                            Louisville
                        
                        Courier-Journal, Dec. 12, 1908.
               
                  19 Don C. Seitz. Joteph Pulitzer, His Life and Letters (
                            New York
                        , 1924).
            
            
            About a week earlier, Roosevelt wrote Henry L. Stimson, 
                        United States
                     Attorney for 
                        New York
                    : "I do not know anything about the law of criminal libel, but I should like to
                    have it invoked against Pulitzer, of the World…. Would you have his
                    various utterances… looked up?" Next day, before the Lakes to the Gulf Waterway
                    Association, the President said he was proud of his Panama accomplishments especially because they
                    were beyond reproach and that a libel action was possible against those charging corruption. Soon
                    came reports of activity in the Attorney General's office. Aiding him were Charles P. Taft,
                    Secretary Elihu Root, Attorney General Charles J. Bonaparte, Solicitor General Henry M. Hoyt and
                    Senator Philander C. Knox. It was said that thirty special attorneys were working on something in
                    Cromwell's office. In papers that Cromwell had sent to Roosevelt was a list of the
                    stockholders of the New Panama Canal Company, a list which Cromwell said did not exist.20
                    
                        Paris
                     officials had also declared that no list existed.
            As predicted, on December 15 came the special message to Congress, and a curious message it was. It
                    was accompanied by documents, including: four volumes of reports of the Interoceanic-Canals
                    Committee, which the Senate already had; two hundred fifty cards on documents in the Library of
                    Congress of a diplomatic nature; documents from 
                        Paris
                    , which were in French; a large volume containing names of stockholders used as a basis
                    for the liquidation of the New Panama Canal Company; and volumes of News and World clippings including Roosevelt's letter to William Dudley Foulke.
            The message reviewed the charges of corruption and the existence of an American syndicate. The
                    message declared: 
                        These stories were scurrilous and libelous in character and false in every particular. Mr.
                            Smith shelters himself behind the excuse that he merely accepted the statements which had
                            appeared in… the World, owned by Mr. Joseph Pulitzer. It is
                            idle to say that the known character of Mr. Pulitzer and his newspaper are such that the
                            statements in that paper will be believed by nobody. Unfortunately, thousands of persons are
                            ill-informed in this respect and believe the statements they see in print, even though they
                            appear in a newspaper published by Pulitzer.
                    
                    
                  
                     20 Pringle, Roosevelt, 832. Letter or Roosevelt to 
                                Knox
                            , cited by Pringle. 332. Testimony of William N. Cromwell before Senator
                            Morgan's committee. Senate Document, No. 457, 1144. This is the
                            report of the committee that investigated the purchase of the Canal (1906). See also Panama Libel Case, 228 passim, 329 passim.
               
                     Thus Roosevelt once more contradicted himself.
            He declared that, "these stories… need no investigation whatever", that
                    they were "in fact wholly and in form partly a libel upon the 
                        United States
                     Government." Thus Roosevelt himself prematurely convicted the alleged
                    offenders. He continued: 
                        The real offender is Mr. Joseph Pulitzer…. While the criminal offense of which Mr.
                            Pulitzer has been guilty is in form a libel upon individuals, the great injury done is in
                            blackening the good name of the American people. It should not be left to a private citizen
                            to sue Mr. Pulitzer for libel. He should be prosecuted for libel by the government
                            authorities.
                    
            
            Roosevelt showed some confusion in the following jumbled sentences: 
                        In point of encouragement of iniquity, in point of infamy, of wrongdoing, there is nothing to
                            choose between a public servant who betrays his trust, a public servant who is guilty of
                            blackmail or theft or public dishonesty of any kind, and a man guilty as Mr. Joseph Pulitzer
                            has been guilty in this instance.
                    
            
            The President further declared: 
                        It is therefore a high national duty to bring to justice the vilifier of the American people,
                            this man who wantonly and wickedly and without one shadow of justice seeks to blacken the
                            character of reputable private citizens and to convict the government of his own country in
                            the eyes of the civilized world of wrongdoing of the basest and foulest
                        kind….
                    
            
            Roosevelt contended that Pulitzer had no justification for the charges made by his paper, and stated
                    finally that "The Attorney General has under consideration the form in which the
                    proceedings against Mr. Pulitzer shall be broughtquot;. The message rehearsed the story of the
                    Purchase.
            The storm of protest was perhaps more against the message than it had been against the charges. It
                    was "one of the most sensational in American History", said the 
                        New York
                    
                    American. "A contribution without example in the official literature of
                    the nation", wrote the 
                        New York
                    
                    Press. Abroad the 
                        London
                    
                    Globe felt that "President Roosevelt should have avoided the
                    ‘language of an angry fishwife’ ", and it was a
                    "pity" according to the 
                        London
                    
                    Journal, that such a message was submitted.21
            
            
               
                  21
                        
                            New York
                         Sun. Dec, 18, 1908. Publishes comments of 
                            London
                         Globe. 
                            New York
                        
                        World. Dec, 19, 1908. Contains Copyrighted dispatch from 
                            London
                        
                        Journal.
            
            
            Opinion in the country varied. Placing Pulitzer in the "Ananias Club" brought
                    laughter in Congress in which attitude no party line was drawn. However, Fairbanks left his official
                    chair when he heard the names of Smith and Pulitzer mentioned in the message. From a facetious
                    editor came the remark that the "Ananias Club" was so full now that he was glad he
                    was among the masses. In the House, Representative Isaac Sherwood of 
                        Toledo
                     asserted that the message had nothing to do with the state of the nation, was
                    unconstitutional, and should be stricken from the records. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun said the message took up valuable time.
            The brief reply of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News was pertinent. "It would be unfair to the President to judge him in
                    his present atribilious temper", wrote the editor, but "the public still
                    wonders" whether all is "well" in the deal. The News
                    felt that "Denunciation and bitterness are no explanation and no answerquot;.
            The World showed more bitterness, and opened its campaign for freedom of the press
                    and against the theory of lese-majesty: 
                        Mr. Roosevelt is mistaken. He cannot muzzle the World. While no amount of
                            billingsgate on his part can alter our determination to treat him with judicial impartiality
                            and scrupulous fairness, we repeat "a demand for a complete investigationquot;. Why
                            didn't he himself demand one? All his protestations of outraged virtue, all his
                            torrents of imprecations and denunciations end with the amazing assertion "that no
                            investigation is necessaryquot;. The World appreciates the significance of
                            a libel suit.
                    
            
            The World continued: 
                        This is the first time a President ever asserted the doctrine of lese-majesty, or proposed in
                            the absence of specific legislation the criminal prosecution by the Government of citizens
                            who criticised the conduct of the Government, or the conduct of individuals who may have had
                            business dealing with the Government…. Yet Mr. Roosevelt, in absence of law,
                            officially proposes to use all the power of the greatest government on earth to cripple the
                            freedom of the press on the pretext that the Government itself has been
                            libeled—and he is the Government.
                        Mr. Roosevelt's lamentable habit of inaccurate statement makes it impossible to
                            accept either his judgements or his conclusions.
                        He says, for example, that the World asserted that there was corruption by
                            or on behalf of the Government…. No such charge was made by this paper.
                        
                        He said the World accused Taft and Robinson. No such charge was made.
                        No other living man ever so grossly libelled the 
                                United States
                             as does the President, who besmirches Congress, bulldozes judges, assails the
                            integrity of courts, slanders private citizens, and who has shown himself the most reckless,
                            unscruplous demagogue whom the American people ever trusted with a great power and
                                authority.22
                  
                    
            
            During the month following, the public waited "with a keen hope of fresh gayety…
                    the process of putting Joseph Pulitzer on the spitquot;. The grand jury was impanelled in 
                        Washington
                     on January 17, 1909. Criminal, not civil, indictments were sought. To this end, then,
                    nearly all the members of the News staff were summoned to 
                        Washington
                    . A fact to be established was the ownership of the News.
                    Roosevelt-had heard that Fairbanks was the owner. There was no friendship between the two. Ownership
                    of the News by Fairbanks was not disclosed until years later.
            Great secrecy of action surrounded the case and high officials testified before the grand jury,
                    including Cromwell. Secrecy was perhaps due to the uncertainty of a legal basis. In congressional as
                    well as legal quarters, it was generally understood that no federal libel law existed. Who the
                    plaintiffs were was not disclosed and the District Attorney stated that he needed none since mere
                    knowledge of alleged crime was enough to permit him to act.23
            
            The indictment was returned on February 17, 1909, based on a fantastic interpretation of an act of
                    1898 to "Protect the Harbor Defenses and Fortifications constructed or used by the 
                        United States
                     from Malicious Injury and for Other Purposesquot;. It was maintained that since the News and World circulated in 
                        Washington
                     and West Point there was just basis for an indictment.
            The defendants were Delevan Smith and Joseph Pulitzer. Those alleged to have been libeled were
                    Theodore Roosevelt, President Taft, Charles P. Taft, Douglas Robinson, Ex-Secretary of State Elihu
                    Root, William N. Cromwell, and J. P. Morgan.
            In order to try Smith in 
                        Washington
                    , where his paper circulated, it was necessary to remove him there. The hearing to
                    remove him came up in the Federal Court in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 
                  
                     22
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Dec. 16, 1908.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Post, Jan. 19, 1909.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                     Attorney Joseph B. Kealing resigned rather than be a party to the proceedings. Judge
                    Albert B. Anderson, over protests of government attorneys, decided to hear evidence for probable
                    cause of removal. The outcome of this hearing is best explained in Judge Anderson's words:
                        
                        There are many very peculiar circumstances… about… this
                            Panama… business. Many believed there were and I will say… that I have
                            a curiosity to know what the real truth was… [since] the man who knew all about
                            it—I think that is the proper way to speak of Mr. Cromwell—stood upon
                            his privilege as an attorney and refused to answer.
                    
            
            Judge Anderson further stated that the first Amendment provided for a free press and that the sixth
                    Amendment guaranteed a man a trial in his own vicinity. This, he said, covered the fact that if the
                        News libeled it libeled at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Post Office. Otherwise a newspaper could be held for libel in 2009 federal
                    jurisdictions. Such could not be.
            Finally Judge Anderson held: 
                        To my mind that man has read the history of our institutions to little purpose who does not
                            look with grave apprehension upon the possibility of the success of a proceeding such as
                            this… If the prosecuting authorities have the authority to select the tribunal;
                            if there be more than one tribunal to select from; if the Government has that power and can
                            drag the citizens from distant States to the capital of the nation, there to be tried, then
                            as Judge Cooley says, this is a strange result of a revolution where one of the grievances
                            complained of was the assertation of the right to send parties abroad for trial.
                        The defendants will be discharged.
                    
            
            The World case came up later in southern 
                        New York
                    . In behalf of freedom of the press, the World feared that if it went
                    on trial it would admit federal jurisdiction. It resulted that the World
                    successfully motioned to quash the indictment.24 The case then went to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, where on January 3, 1911, it was decided that the indictment had no
                    legal basis. Thus, as Huxley once said, "it is a tragedy of science when a fact kills a
                    beautiful hypothesisquot;.
            Newspaper opinion showed no particular political or geographical alignment. Some expressed hope that
                    Roosevelt would "get Pulitzer" and many expressed regret that the 
                  
                     24 J. L. Heaton, Story of a Page (
                                New York
                            , 1913), 282.
               
                     case was never tried on its merits. Others said it all had its
                    natural end. The 
                        Troy
                    
                    Press wrote: "The Constitution, solemnly guaranteeing a free press, is
                    still stronger in America than any egotistic executive, who struts as the ruler when he is legally
                    but the servant of the peoplequot;.25 The Nation said:
                    "A government beyond the reach of the assassin's bullet is certainly beyond the
                    libeler's pen'quot;.26 The World declared:
                    "Mr. Roosevelt is an episode. The World is an institutionquot;.27 Thus ended its consequential campaign for a free press and against
                    lese-majesty—the first of its kind since the Alien-Sedition laws were in effect.
            Immediately after the publication of Foulke's letter, the World had begun
                    gathering evidence. Its agents in 
                        Paris
                     found that records of the Canal companies were under seal for twenty years and could
                    not be opened except when fraud had been proved but could not be used to prove fraud. Thus thwarted,
                    evidence was sought in Bogata, 
                        Colombia
                    , and Panama. Valuable evidence was obtained from the French Canal officials in 
                        Paris
                    , however, and in the files of the Colombian government, which cooperated. In the 
                        United States
                    , it was found that E. H. Harriman made some $86,000 from his canal clients,
                    which he contributed to the Republican Campaign fund in 1900,28 that
                    party's platform being favorable to an isthmian canal.
            On one occasion, Roosevelt was informed that the orld had sought legal advice
                    before the article of December, 1908, was published. Roosevelt was said to have replied that
                    "there are some beings living in the gutter so low that they envy the very eminence of a
                    dunghillquot;. On another occasion, while Roosevelt attended a meeting in the 
                        Columbia
                     Club in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he was reported to have spoken of Judge Anderson as a "jackass and a
                        crookquot;.29
            
            In a personal interview, the author was informed by Hilton U. Brown and Stephan Nolan of the News, that the News men feared the federal case, but that they
                    had also feared the outcome of a possible state court hearing. Further information showed that the
                        World furnished the News with evidence for the defense. Had
                    it not, the News would 
                  
                     25
                            
                                Troy
                             (N.Y.) Prgas.
                  
                     26
                            The Nation, Feb. 3, 1910.
                  
                     27
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Feb, 18, 1909.
                  
                     28 Heaton,Story of a Page, 282.
                  
                     29
                            Story of Panama, 71, 311; Heaton, Story of a Page,
                        382.
               
                     have had a poor case. It must also be noted that the News
                    treated its articles editorially while the World, legally advised, was careful of
                    its treatment. Failure to see Cromwell's denial of the blackmailer's story also
                    placed the News in a peculiar position.
            Regarding the personages involved in the cases, it is of interest to know that Joseph Pulitzer stayed
                    aboard his private yacht Liberty off the coast of 
                        Spain
                    , during a great part of the period of controversy.30 Delevan Smith,
                    though he greatly enjoyed 
                        Washington
                     and had business interests there, stayed away for two or three years.31
            
            According to his promise, Representative Rainey of 
                        Illinois
                    , succeeded in getting a new congressional investigation. In his report "The
                    Story of Panama32 there was incorporated the evidence gathered by the World.
            It must be stated in closing that, after two congressional investigations and two criminal libel
                    cases, one ending in the 
                        United State
                     Supreme Court, the question remains—"Who Got the Money"?
            
               
                  30 Seitz, Pulitzer. 368.
               
                  31 Information obtained from an interview with a close acquaintance of Mr.
                        Delevan Smith.
               
                  32 Hearings on the Rainey Resolution before the House Committee on Foreign
                        Affairs. House Resolution No. 32, 62 Congress. 1 Sess. 
                            Washington
                        . Known as Story of Panama. Permission to prtnt the World's evidence is cited in the document.
            
         
         
         
            Daniel E. Bruce
            Civil War Teamster*
            
            A teamster of the Civil War, who served from 1862 to 1865 and kept a diary through that long, trying
                    period, deserves to have his story told. He did not command an army nor a regiment. He did not even
                    rise to be a corporal. He did not, however, perform the duties of an ordinary private, but served as
                    a driver in charge of teams (usually mules) and wagons, being one of a class of indispensable army
                    men without whose services successful warfare is impossible. That such a man, who had been given
                    little chance at any kind of schooling, should have persisted in keeping a record of his daily
                    experiences is a tribute to his character, native intelligence and worth.1
                    Daniel E. Bruce was born in 
                  Seneca County, Ohio
               , on June 6, 1836. He was the son of Abraham
                    and Sarah Hoch Bruce. His grandfather, Stephen Bruce, Sr., came to Indiana with his wife and several
                    married sons and daughters in 1837. He bought land at an auction sale from the Public Lands Office,
                    and received his patent on August 2, 1837. The land purchased is about midway between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                     at the western edge of 
                        Fulton County
                    .
            Daniel, the grandson of Stephen Bruce, was but little more than one year old when his people migrated
                    to Indiana. He grew up in a very new and undeveloped pioneer community. On October 11, 1857, he was
                    married to Sarah E. Heiser. When he joined the army in 1862, he left behind his wife and one child.
                    He did not see them again for almost four years. Following the War, he lived during the remainder of
                    his career in Harrison Township, 
                        Pulaski County
                    , a short distance from his boyhood home. In all six children were born into the family,
                    each one living to maturity. The ex-soldier led the life of a successful grain and stock-raising
                    farmer. Twenty-nine when he closed his army service, he lived fifty-five years longer, dying on July
                    19, 1920, at the age of eighty-four.
            It was on Monday, August 11, 1862, that this Daniel E. Bruce, a young man of twenty-six said goodbye
                    to his wife 
                  
                     * This sketch is the joint work of Foster Bruce, an
                            attorney of 
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, and grandson of Daniel E. Bruce, and the Editor.
                            The original diary, which has been in the hands of the Editor for several
                            months, is the basis for most of the story. Facts pertaining to the family have been
                            furnished by Foster Bruce from records in his possession. He has also kindly placed certain
                            information relative to the history of the Eighty-seventh Indiana Regiment at the disposal
                            of the Editor.
                  
                     1 The diary was written from day to day, but every entry is in ink.
                            Three small ledgers and the larger part of a fourth, all bound in black leather, were filled
                            while Bruce was in the service.
               
                     and little daughter, went to Pleasant Grove and enlisted. Next
                    day he could have been found at 
                        South Bend
                     drilling with other recruits and sleeping in the Odd Fellows Hall. The first night he
                    had slept on the train under a board shed. Company E, in which Bruce was enlisted, formed a part of
                    the Eighty-seventh Indiana Regiment which remained at 
                        South Bend
                     until August 27, when it was transferred to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .2 On Saturday, August 31, Abraham Bruce, father of the new recruit,
                    came to Camp Morton and remained through till Monday. The diary entries of Saturday and Sunday are
                    of interest: 
                  
                     
                        Satur 30 Father came in camp this morning on a visit Sineing the prole [pay-roll]
                                    list & differ ones to get our Pay Ridgement marching to Town for the Flag.
                                    Camp Rose Ladies in 
                                        South Bend
                                     maid the Flag. Had to move in the Barix 89 Ridgement left.
                        S 31 Father slep in camp with me. I & Father talk about Our farms, he told me
                                    he would milk & I told him to Oversee my farm. I got my Bonty money
                                    $25. & 1.50 for inlistment. 13 for the month. Then i went to Town
                                    Bot a Revolver & 2 pare socks & cusion for Needles & Thred.
                                    Spent $14.75 I gave father $10. Dollars to Pay my dets.
                     
                  
               
            
            Sunday night, Bruce's Regiment spent in the cars at the south edge of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . At five A.M., Monday, the transport trains got started, and reached 
                        Jeffersonville
                     at two P.M. The companies marched to the 
                        Ohio
                    , where they were carried across by steamboats. They then marched over "awful
                    dusty" roads to Camp Oakland south of 
                        Louisville
                    , about four miles from the City. Here they drilled with guns for the first time and
                    marched farther southward on September 3. By Friday, the sixth, the inexperienced soldier, after a
                    night of service with a scouting party, wrote: "Marching 4 miles to camp My feet is awful
                    Sore. I can't scarcely walk."
            It was on September 7, that Bruce was assigned to duty as a teamster. "I was Detailed to go
                    to Town to bring the teem of mules 3 span i drove the mules for the first time in my Life. Loding 4
                    bales of hay waing 1600." He was to have little relaxation as a driver of teams of six
                    mules to heavy army wagons until he was mustered out of the service in 1865. The day following his
                    first duty as a teamster, he had other new experiences. These included "drafting grapes and
                    peaches", 
                  
                     2 From 
                                South Bend
                            , the regiment was transported westward to the railway running from 
                                Michigan City
                             to 
                                New Albany
                             (the Monon of later years) and over this line to 
                                Lafayette
                            . The diarist states that the train crossed the Tippecanoe
                            River between Battle Ground and 
                                Lafayette
                            , but he meant the 
                                Wabash
                            . From 
                                Lafayette
                             the train passed over what is now a Big Four line to 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     that is, appropriating them without leave, which was pleasant
                    enough, and washing his own clothing. "Washing 1 pair of Drawers. This is the first Washing
                    that i done since i was a Boy." Such is his entry, but it is only the earliest of very many
                    like recordings, since doing his own laundry became a very common and necessary duty.
            While the brigade that included the Eighty-seventh Indiana remained for a short period in the
                    vicinity of 
                        Louisville
                    , the raw soldiers were worried by many irritating and sickening happenings. On
                    September 11, teamster Bruce reached a state of mind in which he declared that "A Soldier
                    Life is the worst life that a man ever seen." On the night of September 12, Bruce was sent
                    back across the 
                        Ohio
                     and remained in Indiana for a while. He was kept busy hauling supplies for different
                    regiments. On the nineteenth of the month, as troops were being concentrated to protect 
                        Louisville
                    , the regiments about 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were thrown across the River and sent to Camp Robinson south of 
                        Louisville
                    . The great invasion of 
                        Kentucky
                     by General Braxton Bragg was on, and there were fears for the city. Women and children
                    left the city in large numbers. On Wednesday, September 24, the entry in the diary reads:
                    "Soldiers lay on there Arms lass Nite. at 3 O'clock form a line of
                    Battle…. A.M. drive the teem in town for a lod of Goods. Stoors [stores] &
                    Grocery &c are all Shut. Drove back empty."
            There was no battle at 
                        Louisville
                     and no attack on the city. The Confederates moved to the southeast, with Union forces
                    concentrating against them. The battle came on October 8, and is known as the Battle of Perryville,
                    near which town it was fought. The soldiers of the Eighty-seventh Indiana, a new regiment with
                    almost no training, took a minor part in the fight. Bruce writes: "The Battle Commence at 3
                    O'clock in the morning, kep up till after dark The Rebels Throws the Shells one [once]
                    after our Regiment, But did not hit any of theme Our Boys laying flat on the ground. They did not
                    Shuit at all Our Side best. I went to the Hospetal to see the Wounded. It look horrible to
                    see." General James B. Steedman reported that his Brigade was ordered up to the line of
                    battle, where "it was exposed to quite a severe fire of  shot and shell and some musketry without being able to reply", except by the attached
                        artillery.3
            
            During his period of service, teamster Bruce was usually with the Eighty-seventh Indiana. Though he
                    served other regiments he was never far from his own regiment and company. In Company E, there were
                    several groups each made up of men from a single neighborhood. Throughout his three years, Bruce was
                    closely associated with young men that he had known before enlistment. Among these were a
                    brother-in-law, and six cousins.4 The diary supplies much personal information
                    about these relatives, as well as the more general story of the Eighty-seventh and Company E of that
                    regiment.
            The forces that operated against General Bragg in 
                        Kentucky
                     moved southward as the Confederates retreated. The Eighty-seventh spent some time in
                    the country east of 
                        Nashville
                     during the remainder of 1862, but did not participate in the Battle of Murfreesboro.
                    Entries for the days of that bloody fight will show what the diarist, who was not far away, was
                    doing: 
                  
                     
                        Tues 30 [December, 1862] Calvery Man come riding past to [the] camp. Said that the
                                    Rebels was coming Mager Sumner to get in line and Marching Double Quick. Then Genera
                                    Stedman [Steedman] came riding hollering Halt He Order them back. Sad that he was
                                    Commander of this Briggade. Then Stednan Sent the Briggade & Artilery. Heavy
                                    Canniadeing. Bernt Several Housees Seen no rebels, rote a letter & Sent with
                                    David Runnels, put it in 
                                        Peru
                                     Post oface.
                        Wed 31 Hailing 1 load Crackers from the Depo. Choping Stove wood for Quarter Master.
                        Thurs 1 [January, 1863] Fiting near Mumfres Burow. yesterday & to Day,
                                    General Sills and other Generals reported kild Hard Battle Fiting 5 days Our Side
                                    Best took 6000 prisners Feeding, Curing [currying], watering & the mules
                                    heels has the Cratchers. I cooking Beef and Homney I have $2.50 in pocket
                                    is all i have
                        Fri 2. Paid Joseph 25 cents for the Whip. Drove to Galiton for 1400 wait of Beef.
                                    Washing mule hels [heels] with Wite [white] Oak Oos [ooze] for cratchers.
                     
                  
               
            
            Entries for a few other days of January, 1863, furnish a picture of the ordinary routine that fell to
                    the lot of Bruce: 
                  
                     
                        Wed 7 Drove out [to] forage 6 teems with hay 2 corn & oats. Drove to
                                        Comberlin River about 8 miles. 2 leters from wife.
                        
                           
                              3
                                        Official Record? of the Union and Confederate Armies in the War of
                                            the Rebellion. Series I, Vol. XVI, 107B.
                           
                              4 The Brother-in-law was Alfred Hizer [Heiser]. Three
                                        cousins were the Troutman brothers, John G., James, and Captain Peter. Hiram and
                                        Henry Rairicks were also cousins, as was Philip Obermayer.
                        
                        
                        Thurs 8 Drove my teem on the Other Side of galiton about 1 mile for Beef 800. I paid
                                    doctor 10 cents for a pint of milk for Doctor Gold [Gould] he is sick.
                        Fri 9 Dug [drug] two logs to the fire. Cooking as usual & attending to the
                                    time.
                        Sat 10 Raining. Haling 2 lods Rations, Capturing a mule, Halter & Colar an
                                    trimb his tale.
                        S. 11 I took a good wash. Reading in the Testament, Rote a letter to send to Wife. I
                                    thought of home.
                        Mon 12 Catch a stray Mule that came in camp. Green helping curin [currying] &
                                    feeding as usual. Sowing my coat Buttons fast & pockens fast &c.
                        Tues 13 Got up at 10 Oclock at Night to march at 3 Oclock. Marching for Nashvill Stop
                                    about 3 afternoon Crossing the Ral R. 13 miles.
                        Wed 14 General Stednan [Steedman] Ordered the 2 Minisota and 87 Ridgement back to
                                    Galiton. Drove threw Galiton About 12 Oclock. About 1 mile North of town. Raining
                                    all day. My cloths [clothes] all wet no place to dry.
                     
                  
               
            
            It was on March 20, 1863, that Bruce made the final entry in the first of the four small
                    black-covered books in which he kept his diary. On this Friday, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        I must now say fare well for this past life. And if I must lay my body in this Rebel
                                    land Then i want to have this book printed for my children That they ever can see
                                    what their Father seen and spent in the Army for them…
                        Daniel Bruce
                        To his wife and Children5
                        
                        Sarah E.}
                        Naomi E.}
                        Bruce Aaren A. }
                        A.D, 1863
                     
                  
               
            
            The Eighty-seventh Regiment participated in the campaigning in 
                        Tennessee
                     in the summer of 1863, and later in the 
                        Chattanooga
                     campaign. Those in charge of teams and wagons had interesting experiences in the
                    mountains. A week before the Battle of Chickamauga, Bruce was with the force that included his
                    regiment east of the Tennessee River in northeastern 
                        Alabama
                    . The diary reveals that his duties kept him in the general region of the campaigning
                    but out of the main fighting areas. On Monday, September 14, he was near 
                  Lafayette, Georgia
               , to the
                    south of the scene of the great Battle 
                  
                     5 When Bruce left home he had but one child, a little daughter by the.
                            name of Naomi. Here he also names a son, Aaron A. Bruce, who was born on January 26, 1863 a
                            few months after the father enlisted. Daniel E. Bruce first saw this son when the little boy
                            was about two and a half years old. Strange to say this is the first mention of this child
                            in the diary. Naomi E. Bruce, the little girl left behind with her mother when the father
                            enlisted, married Albert Light, after she grew to womanhood. Mr. Light died sometime ago,
                            but Mrs. Naomi (Bruce) Light still lives and is in good health.
               
                     of Chickamauga of the nineteenth and twentieth. Then he was
                    sent northeast again—back to 
                  Tullahoma,
                            Tennessee
               . His journal for four days,
                    the last two being those of the Battle of Chickamauga, reads: 
                  
                     
                        Thursday 17 Had to hich by 4 and remain till sunup, fed. left camp about 8. retreeted
                                    back and drove round 10 miles, rebels came close to our rear. Shuting [shooting] in
                                    the reer about 1/2 mile. Drove after dark.
                        Friday 18 Camp in a field. Hich by 4 Oclock till day. left the geers on all day. left
                                    the camp at Dark. Drove all nite Stop in a field.
                        Satur 19 Cald [called] for Over coats, forageing and feeding. Hard fiting. Lieutenant
                                    Bennett of Co. E kild.
                        S 20. Left camp about 10 O'clock. Drove 12 miles to Talihona6, past Boys wounded Arms, legs, and Head. Camp in nice grove. Rebes drove our
                                    men back.
                     
                  
               
            
            According to the diary, Bruce was near 
                  Lafayette,
                            Georgia
               , on September 14 and at
                            
                  Tullahoma, Tennessee
               , on the twentieth, about seventy miles away on a straight
                    line. This meant strenuous driving in a mountainous country. On the twenty-sixth, he started again
                    for Stevenson, 
                        Alabama
                    , but his duties did not permit the most direct route, since he mentions passing through
                            
                  Jasper, Tennessee
               , on September 30. On this day he made thirty miles. He started
                    early the next morning. It had rained all night and continued through the day. Five miles were
                    covered, and a stop made at the foot of Sand Mountain. Here Bruce heard that
                    400 teams were to go over the Mountain ahead of the teams in his division. The next three days were
                    full of real experiences: 
                  
                     
                        Friday 2 [October, 1863] Rebels atack us. Our train [wagon train] Capturd and bernt
                                    about 400 wagins and captured a good many of Our Boys. I onhich my teem and [gave]
                                    the rest of the Boys, a mule apice about 9 in the morning and for all the riding up
                                    the mountain threw the brush & logs I never seen and suting [shooting] on
                                    every Side. Rode on to camp, no hat or coat.
                        S 4 [Sunday. No entry for Saturday] We saleve [salvaged] 14 of our mules. 175 wagons
                                    bernt by the rebels and took off and [or] kill 500 mules and 100 wagins and a good
                                    many of our Boys, we left camps about 5 in the evening. I slep without a blanket on
                                    the ground.
                        Monday 5 No feed for the mules. Came the River road. Past the Train Had 1500 wounded
                                    on going to stevison. We came to Battle crick about Dark. Came on the old Camp
                                    grounds, rode 30 miles rebe got my Blanket
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  6
                        
                            Tullahoma
                        . a place in 
                            Tennessee
                         nearly sixty miles northwest of 
                            Chattanooga
                        .
            
            
            Back and forth through the country west and southwest of 
                        Chattanooga
                     in 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Alabama
                    , the services required of Bruce took him during the long campaign. He had some easy
                    days during the middle of October. On Sunday, October 25, the day of the Battle of Missionary Ridge,
                    Bruce wrote: "Talk of Hiching 8 mules to a wagin and Hailing Goods to 
                        Chattanooga
                    , got a wagin and geers for 13 Mules, fiting [fitting] the geers on the Mules."
                    There was need of abundant supplies in 
                        Chattanooga
                    , as the Union troops concentrated there at the time of the engagement on Missionary
                    Ridge numbered close to 80,000. For several weeks after the Confederates left the city, a large
                    Federal force remained at 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Day by day through the winter, the teamsters were busy transporting supplies. Bruce
                    drove in and out of the city many times.
            On March 1, 1864, Teamster Bruce was transferred to Ringgold, 
                        Georgia
                    , about halfway from 
                        Chattanooga
                     to Dalton, from which place he carried on until the army started towards 
                        Atlanta
                     early in May. For nearly two weeks, he was on duty as a cook, and then went back to
                    driving mules. On April 4, he mentioned that "Governor Morton [sent] the 87th 7 Barls
                    Potatoes, and Several weeks ago Sent 7 Barls and [some] Oneionsquot;. He added: "Morton is
                    best Man of all the Governors to the Soldiers."
            The divisions of the Union army that were stationed at 
                        Chattanooga
                     and other points near by, about 100,000 strong, began the movement toward 
                        Atlanta
                     early in May, 1864. Bruce, stationed at Ringgold, 
                        Georgia
                    , made this entry on May 5: "Troop coming in all day long. Large Supplies Brot
                    to this Place." This meant that the move on Dalton was about to be launched: 
                  
                     
                        Friday 6 Hald 1 log 40 feet long. Ordered me and the teem in the Supplitrain. Quite
                                    warm. Dierear verry Bad. Put on [wagon] Bows and Cover and Traps. Drove to Brigade
                                    Supplytrain Drew forage aftere Nite, then feed and Harness. Drove to Brigade
                                    Comissary. Loded 6 Barls of Pork, midnite when got in Bed. 13 teems in the train.
                        Satur 7. Slep on the Barls. Hich By 6 O'clock. Troops passing all morning.
                                    Grees wagin. Took the geers of [off] at nite.
                        S 8 Hich by 6 and drove nearer Village. Mules Harness all day. Rote letter Wife. 2
                                    Minsta [Second 
                                        Minnesota
                                    ] paid Teemsters. lost 2 Mules, fed them too large feed of Crackers,
                                    time fed til Died 4 ours.
                     
                  
               
            
            
            On Monday May 9, Bruce left Ringgold where he had been for more than two months. He was now with a
                    moving army. From day to day, he saw fighting, or heard the guns, or learned of skirmishing near at
                    hand or a short distance ahead. There were numerous entries like the following: 
                  
                     
                        May 10 Pastering Mules. Schirmishing all day yester Day and nite And this morning,
                                    and now and then Cannon Shot. Still advancing. Rebs falling back. Drew forage.
                                    Raining.
                     
                  
               
            
            On the thirteenth troops were passing during the night and early morning, "Sherman and
                    Tomes" [Thomas] and "Schofieldquot;. The supply train passed through Snake Creek
                    Gap on this day and camped at the line of breastworks very recently constructed by the troops
                    leading the advance on Resaca. "No end to the Teemsquot;. General Sherman's
                    strategy was to send troops west of Dalton under cover of a ridge. In this way a portion of his army
                    having passed through Snake Creek Gap threatened Resaca, south of Dalton, which caused General
                    Joseph E. Johnston to retreat from Dalton to Resaca on the night of May 12. The fighting at Resaca
                    occurred on the fourteenth and fifteenth. Bruce drove northward to Dalton the second day of the
                    fight for a load of "Hard Breadquot;. On the sixteenth he followed the army from Resaca
                    with "35 Boxes hard Breadquot;. By May 23, the wagon train crossed the Etowah
                        River. The next day Bruce came to a rich plantation which furnished more satisfactory
                    forage. Here he husked fifteen bushels of corn. One of the difficult and ever present problems was
                    to find enough feed for the many mules in the supply train. Corn, wheat, hay and other foods were
                    appropriated, while at times the animals must graze on such land as afforded enough for subsistence.
                    On Saturday, July 2, the teamsters reached Kenesaw Mountain. Bruce camped for
                    the night in a park near the mountain. The diary for July 3, reads: 
                  
                     
                        Left Camp By 6 O'clock, all day on the road. Drove 5 m. Drove over the line
                                    of battle [of July 2] and such suting [shooting] of Trees i never Seen in my life
                                    and Houses all shot thru of holes. Camp near Marieta in a nise field.
                     
                  
               
            
            On July 19 Bruce was in a camp on the bluffs of the Chattahoochee River, and
                    went down into the bottoms for forage. On the twenty-first he crossed the River over a pontoon
                    bridge, and went three miles up the valley. Walking to  the top
                    of hill, he could see 
                        Atlanta
                    , and several mountains, including Kenesaw Mountain and
                    "Rock" Mountain. It was not till September 8 that Bruce drove into a park within
                    the limits of 
                        Atlanta
                    . On the fifteenth he drove his team along the streets of that city for the first time.
                    He loaded five boxes of clothing, and then went to a grove where he chopped down poles for use in
                    building a shade for mules. With others, he was busy at this work for several days. The shed was
                    covered with brush, and when finished sheltered fourteen teams of six or more mules to the team.
                    Bruce remained at 
                        Atlanta
                     until October 3.
            It is well known that General J. B. Hood, who superseded Johnston prior to the evacuation of 
                        Atlanta
                    , tried soon after abandoning the city to transfer the scene of western warfare to 
                        Tennessee
                     again. Failing to break Sherman's connections with 
                        Chattanooga
                    , Hood moved far to the westward, going to the neighborhood of 
                  Florence, Alabama
               , Sherman followed for about half the distance, then turned about,
                    returned to 
                        Atlanta
                    , and prepared to march to the sea.
            Daniel Bruce was among the teamsters who served Sherman's force while in pursuit of Hood.
                    From the third to the twenty-eighth of October, Bruce was serving the troops that moved from 
                        Atlanta
                     to Gaylesville, 
                        Alabama
                    . He hauled a load of wheat into that town on the last mentioned date.7 On the fifteenth of November, he was back in 
                        Atlanta
                    , and the next day he was on the way to Savannah, the environs of which city he reached
                    on December 22. While on the march to the sea, there was much foraging to be done, as items from the
                    diary will show: "All kind of forage plenty; Nice Clothing and Dresses, Silk
                    and… muslin, Thread, &c" (Nov. 17); "foraging Mules and Horses.
                    Detail each Day from each Brigade, past Rich planters" (Nov. 20); "loded 17 Sacks
                    of forage at Sundown. All nite on the Rode Driving 14 miles" (Dec. 21); "went
                    foraging 8 miles [out of Savannah]. Loded Rice in the hull, loded [on] the Savana
                    River" (Dec. 24). It was not always easy to find enough food for the men and
                    animals of a large moving army. On December 18, Bruce records that there was only "rice in
                    the Straw to feed the mules for the past week."
            On Friday, January 20, Bruce left Savannah: 
                  
                     7 Gaylesville, a town In eastern 
                                Alabama
                            , a few miles west of 
                        Rome,
                                    Georgia
                     .
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        Ready by Day. Start on Campaign. Drove 8 miles on the same road we came in on Coming
                                    to this place. Cold Rain. Rode quite bad. I am quite lame in Sholders and Back. Got
                                    wet. Small room on the wagin.
                     
                  
               
            
            Sherman's army moved across 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     taking 
                        Columbia
                     and Raleigh along the way. The wagon trains accompanied the troops. Bruce mentions
                    passing through the town of 
                        Lexington
                     Courthouse on February 16, the crossing of the Saluda River on the
                    seventeenth, and the Broad River on the nineteenth. He does not mention 
                        Columbia
                    . While moving northward he must have passed a short distance west of that city. After
                    crossing the Saluda River, he "got in Camp about 9 at nitequot;. He
                    adds: "Seen cars and foder Burning and Houses. Women crying &c", but he
                    was probably not close enough to see 
                        Columbia
                     burn as he records nothing to indicate it. It was on April 14, that Bruce drove his
                    team through Raleigh, North Calolina. His entry of the nineteenth of April, mentions the
                    assassination of Lincoln, but he does not refer to it later: 
                  
                     
                        Wed. 19 Graising Mules. Raining hard lass nite. Abraham Lincoln Presadent, Reported
                                    Kild. Talk of Pice [peace]. Sitizens come to the Division. Giving them Horses and
                                    Mules, that hant fit for the Survice.
                     
                  
               
            
            The surrender of Johnston's army is not mentioned, though two days before it took place,
                    Bruce states that there was "talk of Mooving on Rebel Johnsonquot;. The crossing of the
                        Roanoke River is recorded on May 2. On the ninth of May, Bruce claims to
                    have made twenty-five miles. It was on this day that he "past Castle Thunder and Liby Prisn
                    and on Round in the City of 
                        Richmond
                     and General Washington Monumentquot;.8 On May 24, the diarist
                    wrote: "The Army of Tennese and of 
                        Georgia
                     March to City of 
                        Washington
                    . Revied [reviewed] by Presadent Johnson, and Back to Campquot;.
            While in 
                        Washington
                     from May 24 to June 12, Bruce was busy a part of his time looking after teams and
                    equipment. On Friday, June 2, he turned over all the extra stock of collars, chains, harness and
                    horses. On the following Tuesday, he heard that he was soon "To Turn over 25 teemsquot;.
                    Presumably, this happened within a day or two, but there is no further mention of mules, or any
                    service that a teamster might have been called on to perform. On May 30, he had an opportunity to go
                    to the White House, when he and a friend "Rode on the 
                  
                     8 The 
                                Washington
                             monument in 
                                Richmond
                             is meant.
               
                     Wagin in the City to See threw in the Patin Offace and on to
                    the Presadent House or [and] Capitol. Seen near all in each room & one of the greatest seens
                    i Ever Seen in my lifequot;.
            It was on Monday, June 12, that the Eighty-seventh left 
                        Washington
                    : "Struct Tents. March to the City at 6. Stack guns. Wating for the Cars. Quite
                    warm, left the City about noon… ". Traveling on the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , the troop train passed northward to the junction at Relay House, just south of 
                        Baltimore
                    . It was dark when Hood's Mill about half way from 
                        Baltimore
                     to Frederick, was reached. The next morning the train was at 
                  Hancock, Maryland
               . After passing 
                  Cumberland, Maryland
               , the
                    train was cut into four divisions. Grafton, 
                        West Virginia
                    , was reached by midnight, when "grub" was served to the homeward
                    bound veterans. By the morning of the fourteenth, Bruce reports that they were at 
                        Bridgeport
                    , a town between Grafton and Clarksburg. That evening they landed at 
                        Parkersburg
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    , where they went into camp near the town and drew rations. From Parkersburg to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , transportation was by the River. After thirty miles, they changed boats, and were
                    required to do "5 miles fast walking" with the temperature high. They were all
                    night on the boats running at fifteen or more miles per hour. About the time of the boat change,
                    Bruce enjoyed looking at ripe wheat in the fields and some in the shock, while on other farms he saw
                    men hauling clover hay. With a short stop at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the boats went on to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, where the troops were landed at about eight P.M. on Friday, June 16. Having
                    left Parkersburg on Thursday morning, this was a good run.
            Taking the train at midnight, the boys in blue found themselves in 
                        Indianapolis
                     about six in the morning. From the seventeenth to the twenty-fourth of June, the
                    veterans remained at Camp Oak Glen, with considerable freedom to go about the City. On June 21 they
                    were tendered a "Resepttion Dinerquot;. Then the Eighty-seventh and Forty-second Indiana
                    infantry regiments with the Fifth and Sixth Cavalry, were marched to the State House to hear a
                    speech from Governor Morton. Other speeches were made by regiment commanders and by Generals
                    Carrington and Wagner, and some other officers who had come back to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from their homes.
            When Daniel E. Bruce was mustered out of the service at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 24, he received pay amounting to $254.  He bought clothing for which he paid $29, a bottle of oil
                    for seventy-five cents, a box for $2.50, a saddle for $29.50, and paid
                    $1.65 expressage on articles shipped to his home. He boarded the cars at ten P.M.,
                    changed at "Coakmo"9 and reached Winamac at six on the morning
                    of June 25. Bruce and five comrades were met by his Uncle Stephen Bruce, at whose home they were
                    given breakfast, and then hauled to Bruce Lake. After nearly three years, the
                    young man who had given strenuous service to his country as an army teamster was at home. At the end
                    of his diary entry for June 25, 1865, which he recorded the next morning, the veteran wrote:
                    "The first time i slep in bed since I left homequot;.
            
               
                  9
                        
                            Kokomo
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            A new series of pamphlets, "Prehistory Research Series," is being initiated by the
                    Society different from, and independent of, the Publications, now in their twelfth
                    volume. The new series is made possible by contributions received by the Archaeological Section.
                    Reports on archaeology and anthropology of the type hitherto published by the Historical Bureau in
                    its Indiana History Bulletin, will hereafter be included in this series. The page
                    size will be approximately that of the Indiana Magazine of History. This will
                    allow a better rendering of the cuts of excavations and artifacts than does the page size of the Bulletin.
            
            The articles contemplated for the series are the product of the researches of the staff of the
                    Historical Society and others working upon American archaeology and anthropology. Paul Weer, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who contributed "Preliminary Notes on the Siouan Family" to the Indiana History Bulletin, February, 1937 (Volume 14, No. 2, pp. 9–20,
                    reprinted by the Historical Society), has also contributed to the series similar notes on the
                    Iroquoian family, to be followed by a study of other groups. Dr. C. F. Voegelin, of DePauw
                    University, is to contribute etymological and philological studies upon Indian
                    languages—investigations into the linguistic relations of various Indian groups and
                    families; Glenn A. Black is to contribute reports on archaeological surveys and excavations and E.
                    Y. Guernsey, of 
                        Bedford
                    , is preparing for the series a historical and archaeological survey of 
                        Clark County
                    . Other articles on various phases of American, and especially Indiana, prehistory, are
                    contemplated. Miss Gayle Thornbrough, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has been added to the staff of the Society, with the management of the series and
                    seeing it through the press as her principal work.
            The archaeological publications heretofore issued in the Indiana History Bulletin
                    are listed on the cover of the reprint of "Preliminary Notes on the Siouan
                    Family," referred to above. The list includes surveys of 
                  Lawrence, Washington, Parke, Randolph
                (including the Fudge
                    Mound), 
                  Porter, Dearborn
                and 
                        Ohio
                     counties, the Excavation of the Albee Mound (two Bulletins),
                    "Excavation of a 
                        Blackford County
                     Site," Excavation of the Newlin Mound, the Archaeology of the 
                        Whitewater Valley, Bibliography on Indiana Archaeology, and an
                    article, "Sweeping a Prehistoric Floor" (a 
                        Marion County
                     site).
            An illustrated volume upon Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana by Eli Lilly,
                    president of the Society, is being prepared for the press. It is to be printed and bound by the
                    Lakeside Press as a special publication, entirely independent and separate both from the Indiana
                    Historical Society Publications and the "Prehistory Research Seriesquot;.
            
               Sons of the Wilderness: John and William Conner by Charles N. Thompson, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is announced as Volume 12 of the Indiana Historical Society Publications, constituting a volume by itself. This publication is expected during the summer.
                    Approved for publication are "The Contribution of the Friends to Education in
                    Indiana," by Mrs. Ethel McDaniels, of Wilkinson, and an article by Wiley J. Daniels, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , upon the bringing of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad to the latter city, an elaboration of a paper entitled, "A Chapter in
                    Early Indiana Railroad History—the Little Village at the End of the Road," read
                    by Mr. Daniels at the seventeenth annual Indiana History Conference, December 13, 1935.
            The question raised by a prospective member as to whether the Society should devote itself entirely
                    to Indiana and local history deserves consideration. In the opinion of the writer, the Society
                    should not do so. He would like to think of it as an organization centering in Indiana, of persons
                    interested in history, rather than as an organization for the promotion solely of Indiana history.
                    Almost all the Publications of the Society have dealt with the history of the
                    state, with localities within the state, and with people living here. Only a few Publications upon general themes have been issued. This is as it should be, for members
                    and contributors of the Society, for the most part, are in a better position to write upon the
                    former subjects. Articles of merit upon 
                        United States
                     or general history can usually find a more appropriate medium of publication in such
                    magazines as the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review, or the
                        American Historical Review, or in publications issued for the book trade.
                    However, we ought to secure occasionally for meetings of the Society and for publication, articles
                    of value upon subjects of general  scope. Historians might well
                    regard this as a medium for the preliminary publication of work which they have in hand and which
                    they plan to develop into more extensive, permanent contributions to historical knowledge. Writing
                    without official authorization, it is nevertheless safe to say that information about such articles
                    will be gratefully welcomed by those in charge of the programs of meetings and by the committee on
                    publications.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR HISTORY TEACHERS
            In the summer of 1833, when John Quincy Adams had almost reached "three score and
                    ten" and when he was prevented from carrying on his ordinary labors by a temporary ailment,
                    he devoted about an hour a day to teaching a granddaughter the alphabet. Of little Louisa Adams, he
                    says in his diary of August 5, 1833: "She seems to make no progress, though not deficient
                    in intelligence." This set the man, who had faced many hard problems in the course of his
                    career, to thinking. He decided that "the qualities perhaps most indispensible to the
                    schoolmaster are patience and perseverance." In a later sentence he put the same thing more
                    strongly: "Imperturable equanimity, untiring patience, unweariable perseverence are the
                    wants of the instructor."
            The old statesman had a resource which he used when he seemed unable to measure up to the required
                    degree of patience as a teacher. His own statement of the case as recorded in his journal is worth
                    passing on: 
                  
                     
                        When I feel much exasperated at my scholar's dullness of apprehension, my
                                    best resource is to tax myself with learning the Hebrew alphabet, which I have been
                                    endeavoring to do some forty odd years, and have not yet accomplished. The thickest
                                    skull upon which instruction ever left its labor never resisted the impression more
                                    than mine has done to exclude it; and as the association of ideas is sometimes odd
                                    in its operations, Louisa's difficulties in learning the English alphabet
                                    have put me for the twentieth, perhaps the thirtieth, time upon surmounting those of
                                    the Hebrew. I make my own indocility the apology for hers.
                     
                  
               
            
            In the fashion of the old-time readers, there may be added here:
            
               Moral: Let us who are high school and college teachers of history profit by the
                    method of John Quincy Adams. If not able to muster sufficient patience and perseverence to get
                    results from a slow class, when teaching some period of European or American History, suppose we try
                    again to master the Roman principate, taxation in a feudal kingdom, or the history of the voiding of
                    acts of Congress by the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    . It may thus be possible for many of us to make our "own indocility the
                    apology" for that of a class.
            
            It is of vital importance to the teacher of history, whether in high school or in college, that he be
                    a learner as well as a teacher. To be a learner, in the sense in which the term is here used, means
                    more than to study a text book and more than the reading of larger histories and biographies. It
                    means to be always a student of some problem or topic through the use of original sources and
                    scholarly monographs. The ideal college professor is one who can teach with skill, enjoyment and
                    enthusiasm, but who is likewise, from instinct or habit, always gathering information on some
                    subject in his own field—a real investigator. It is defensible for a college to employ a
                    man who is a poor teacher if he is strong in research. Perhaps it is also defensible to employ a
                    fine teacher who is not inclined toward research, but it is impossible to believe that the
                    effectiveness of such a teacher would not be enhanced by at least a small amount of research and
                    writing each year.
            The general view is that high school teachers of history should not be expected to do more than a
                    fair amount of collateral reading in connection with the courses taught. Certainly, it is held, they
                    cannot carry on any research work. The teaching load is heavy, extra-curricular duties are numerous,
                    and facilities for the study of original materials are meager or non-existant. It is nevertheless
                    true that very busy persons can do considerable research each year, and there are usually some
                    unexplored historical sources in every community. It is after all, to a considerable degree, a
                    matter of inclination or habit whether the high school teacher of history does more than just teach
                    with a minimum of daily preparation. One is inclined to suspect that if each high school instructor
                    in history was required to produce a short piece of independent work in every two-year period, the
                    production to be judged by competent critics, or give up his place, that most instructors would find
                    time to qualify. It is safe to assert that the quality of teaching would also improve from year to
                    year. Perhaps the enforcement of this same proposed requirement in colleges would prove helpful to
                    some of the professors.
         
         
         
            Document
            THE ORDINANCE OF 1787
            It being one hundred fifty years, on July 13, 1937, since the Congress of the Confederation passed
                    the Northwest Ordiance, it seems fitting that the document should be republished in this issue of
                    the Indiana Magazine of History. The Ordinance dealt with an age-old problem
                    though under somewhat new conditions which suggested a better solution than any hitherto reached in
                    history. Phoenicians, Greeks, Romans and the modern countries of western Europe were all colonizers
                    of remote areas. Some of the colonies of these peoples were established in areas already populated
                    and some in vacant or nearly vacant lands. What should be the political status of a colony after
                    reaching a reasonable degree of maturity and stability was the most difficult problem that
                    confronted colonizing states through the centuries—a question that received no adequate
                    answer until after the formation of the 
                        United States
                     of America.
            The mainland colonies of Great Britain formed themselves into a federation and set up a republican
                    government during the struggle for independence. This problem of establishing a general government
                    was extremely important. Not well solved in the first attempt, a more adequate central government
                    was proposed in 1787 and set up in 1789. Another problem, equally important, was that of dealing
                    with future colonies. The solution of this fundamental problem had to be attempted, but it was
                    entirely possible to blunder or to muddle along for a generation or a century before stumbling upon
                    a good solution. The fact that the new government was a federation of historic provinces was an
                    advantage. The further fact that American colonization must be carried on in areas only sparsely
                    populated by scattered Indian tribes was a second advantage. The last made it quite certain that
                    colonies of the new 
                        United States
                     would be dominated by settlers migrating from the old thirteen states, and the former
                    made it possible to think of adding each colony, as it reached a certain stage of development, to
                    the existing federation as another state. In addition to the above, the new 
                        United States
                    , beginning a great experiment in democracy, had leaders with vision who were willing to
                    extend self-government to colonies growing up on the frontier.
            
            The Ordinance of 1784, the original draft of which was drawn up by Thomas Jefferson, contains some
                    great provisions relative to western colonies (territories). Among them are the following: 
                        That their respective governments shall be republican.
                        That whensoever any of the said states shall have of free inhabitants as many as shall then
                            be in any one the least numerous of the thirteen Original states, such state shall be
                            admitted by its delegates into the Congress of the 
                                United States
                             provided the consent of so many states in Congress is first obtained as may at
                            the time be competent to such admission.…
                    
            
            The original draft was more detailed and liberal than the Ordinance as passed and the draft by
                    Jefferson had more influence on the Ordinance of 1787 than did the Ordinance of 1784 as passed by
                    the Congress. It should be stressed that the provisions of the Ordinance of 1787 dealing with
                    self-government and eventual admission to the Union on terms of equality with the existing states
                    were fundamental and more significant than the clauses relating to education, freedom of religion,
                    slavery, or intestate estates, important as were these parts of the Ordinance. With a considerable
                    degree of self-government granted to each colony (territory) as soon as there should be
                    ‘five thousand free male inhabitants of full age,’ colonists could not
                    complain. The Ordinance provided that, "whenever any of the said states shall have sixty
                    thousand free Inhabitants therein, such state shall be admitted by its Delegates into the Congress
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , on an equal footing with the original states in all respects whatever….
                    " This was the first time in the history of the world that such a liberal and laudable plan
                    was offered to colonies. The American people have a right to be proud of the members of Congress who
                    passed the Ordinance and of the statesmen responsible for the principles embodied in that famous
                    measure. It is indeed fitting that they should be honored for their work. 
                        An Ordinance for the government of the territory of the 
                                United States
                             North west of the river 
                                Ohio
                            .
                        
                     Be it ordained by the 
                                    United States
                                 in Congress Assembled that the said territory for the purposes of
                            temporary government be one district, subject however to be divided into two districts as
                            future circumstances may in the opinion of Congress make it expedient.1
                  
                        
                     
                        1 The text here used follows the printed copy recently published
                                in The Territorial Papers of the 
                                        United States
                                    
                         (II, 8–0) edited by Clarence E. Carter. The table
                                indicating the vote by states is taken from American History Leaflets
                                (edited by Albert B. Hart and Edward Channing), no. 32, pp. 2–4.
                  
                        
                        Be it ordained by the authority aforesaid, that the estates both of resident and non resident
                            proprietors in the said territory dying intestate shall descend to and be distributed among
                            their children and the descendants of a deceased child in equal parts; the descendants of a
                            deceased child or grand child to take the share of their deceased parent in equal parts
                            among them; and where there shall be no children or descendants then in equal parts to the
                            next of kin in equal degree—and among collaterals the children of a deceased
                            brother or sister of the intestate shall have in equal parts among them their deceased
                            parent's share & there shall in no case be a distinction between kindred of
                            the whole & half blood; saving in all cases to the widow of the intestate her third
                            part of the real estate for life, and one third part of the personal estate: and this law
                            relative to descents and dower shall remain in full force until altered by the legislature
                            of the district. And until the governor & judges shall adopt laws as herein after
                            mentioned estates in the said territory may be devised or bequeathed by wills in writing
                            signed and sealed by him or her in whom the estate may be, being of full age, and attested
                            by three witnesses, and real estates may be conveyed by lease and release or bargain and
                            sale signed, sealed and delivered by the person being of full age in whom the estate may be
                            and attested by two witnesses provided such wills be duly proved and such conveyances be
                            acknowledged or execution there of duly proved and be recorded within one year after proper
                            magistrates, courts and registers shall be appointed for that purpose and personal property
                            may be transferred by delivery saving however to the french and Canadian inhabitants
                            & other settlers of the Kaskaskies, Saint Vincents and the neighbouring villages who
                            have heretofore professed themselves citizens of 
                                Virginia
                            , their laws and customs now in force among them relative to the descent
                            & conveyance of property2
                  
                        
                     Be it ordained by the authority aforesaid that there shall be appointed
                            from time to time by Congress a governor,3 whose commission shall
                            continue in force for the term of three years, unless sooner revoked by Congress: he shall
                            reside in the district and have a freehold estate therein, in one thousand acres of land
                            while in the exercise of his office. There shall be appointed from time to time by Congress
                            a secretary, whose commission shall continue in force for four years, unless sooner revoked:
                            he shall reside in the district and have a freehold estate therein in five hundred acres of
                            land while in the exercise of his office; It shall be his duty to keep and preserve the acts
                            and laws passed by the legislature and the public records of the district and the
                            proceedings of the governor in his executive department, and transmit authentic copies of
                            such acts & proceedings every six months to the Secretary of Congress. There shall
                            also be appointed a court to consist of three judges any two of whom to form a court, who
                            shall have a common law jurisdiction and reside in the district and have each therein a
                            freehold estate in five 
                        
                           2 It seems a little strange that the Ordinance first provided
                                    for the disposal of intestate estates. This was, however, a very important problem
                                    and the equal division of such estates meant the application of a very democratic
                                    principle.
                        
                           3 After the reorganization of the federal government under the
                                    new Constitution, the power of appointing the territorial governors and judges was
                                    placed in the hands of the President.
                     
                             hundred acres of land while in the exercise of their
                            offices, and their commissions shall continue in force during good behaviour.
                        The governor, and judges or a majority of them shall adopt and publish in the district such
                            laws of the original states criminal and civil as may be necessary and best suited to the
                            circumstances of the district and report them to Congress from time to time, which law shall
                            be in force in the district until the organization of the general assembly therein, unless
                            disapproved of by Congress; but afterwards the legislature shall have authority to alter
                            them as they shall think fit.
                        The governor for the time being shall be Commander in chief of the Militia, appoint and
                            commission all officers in the same below the rank of general Officers: All general officers
                            shall be appointed & commissioned by Congress.
                        Previous to the organization of the general Assembly the governor shall appoint such
                            magistrates and other civil officers in each county or township, as he shall find necessary
                            for the preservation of the peace and good order in the same. After the general assembly
                            shall be organized, the powers and duties of magistrates and other civil officers shall be
                            regulated and defined by the said assembly; but all magistrates and other civil officers,
                            not herein otherwise directed shall during the continuance of this temporary government be
                            appointed by the governor.
                        For the prevention of crimes and injuries the laws to be adopted or made shall have force in
                            all parts of the district and for the execution of process criminal and civil, the governor
                            shall make proper divisions thereof, and he shall proceed from time to time as circumstances
                            may require to lay out the parts of the District in which the indian titles shall have been
                            extinguished into counties and townships subject however to such alterations as may
                            thereafter be made by the legislature
                        So soon as there shall be five thousand free male inhabitants of full age in the district
                            upon giving proof thereof to the governor, they shall receive authority with time and place
                            to elect representatives from their counties or townships to represent them in the general
                            Assembly, provided that for every five hundred free male inhabitants there shall be one
                            representative and so on progressively with the number of free male inhabitants shall the
                            right of representation encrease until the number of representatives shall amount to twenty
                            five after which the number and proportion of representatives shall be regulated by the
                            legislature; provided that no person be eligible or qualified to act as a representative
                            unless he shall have been a citizen of one of the 
                                United States
                             three years and be a resident in the district or unless he shall have resided
                            in the district three years and in either case shall likewise hold in his own right in fee
                            simple two hundred acres of land within the same; provided also that a freehold in fifty
                            acres of land in the district having been a citizen of one of the states and being resident
                            in the district; or the like freehold and two years residence in the district shall be
                            necessary to qualify a man as an elector of a representative
                        The representatives thus elected shall serve for the term of two years and in case of the
                            death of a representative or removal from office, the governor shall issue a writ to the
                            county or township for which he  was a member, to elect
                            another in his stead to serve for the residue of the term
                        The general Assembly or legislature shall consist of the governor, legislative council and a
                            house of representatives. The legislative council shall consist of five members to continue
                            in Office five years unless sooner removed by Congress, any three of whom to be a quorum and
                            the members of the council shall be nominated and appointed in the following manner, to wit;
                            as soon as representatives shall be elected, the governor shall appoint a time &
                            place for them to meet together, and when met they shall nominate ten persons residents in
                            the district and each possessed of a freehold in five hundred acres of Land and return their
                            names to Congress; five of whom Congress shall appoint & commission to serve as
                            aforesaid; and whenever a vacancy shall happen in the council by death or removal from
                            office, the house of Representatives shall nominate two persons qualified as aforesaid, for
                            each vacancy, and return their names to Congress; one of whom Congress shall appoint and
                            Commission for the residue of the term; and every five years, four Months at least before
                            the expiration of the time of service of the Members of Council, the said House shall
                            nominate ten Persons qualified as aforesaid, and return their names to Congress, five of
                            whom Congress shall appoint and Commission to serve as Members' of the Council five
                            years, unless sooner removed. And the Governor, legislative Council, and house of
                            Representatives, shall have authority to make laws in all Cases for the good government of
                            the District, not repugnant to the principles and Articles in this Ordinance established and
                            declared. And all bills having passed by a majority in the House, and by a Majority in the
                            Council, shall be referred to the Governor for his assent; but no bill or legislative Act
                            whatever, shall be of any force without his assent. The Governor shall have power to
                            convene, prorogue, and dissolve the General Assembly, when in his opinion it shall be
                            expedient—
                        The Governor, Judges, legislative Council, Secretary, and such other Officers as Congress
                            shall appoint in the District, shall take an Oath or Affirmation of fidelity, and of Office,
                            the Governor before the President of Congress, and all other Officers before the Governor.
                            As soon as a legislature shall be formed in the District, the Council and house assembled in
                            one room, shall have authority by joint ballot to elect a Delegate to Congress, who shall
                            have a seat in Congress, with a right of debating, but not of voting, during this temporary
                            Government.
                        And for extending the fundamental principles of Civil and religious liberty, which form the
                            basis whereon these Republics, their laws and Constitutions are erected; to fix and
                            establish those principles as the basis of all laws, constitutions and governments, which
                            forever hereafter shall be formed in said territory;—to provide also for the
                            establishment of States, and permanent government therein, and for their admission to a
                            share in the federal Councils on an equal footing with the original States, at as early
                            periods as may be consistent with the general interest—
                        
                     It is hereby Ordained and declared by the authority aforseaid, That the
                            following Articles shall be considered as Articles of compact between  the Original States and the People and States in the said
                            territory, and forever remain unalterable, unless by common consent, to
                            wit,
                        
                     ARTICLE THE FIRST. No person demeaning himself in a peaceable and orderly
                            manner shall ever be molested on account of his mode of worship or religious sentiments in
                            the said territory—4
                  
                        
                     ARTICLE THE SECOND. The Inhabitants of the said territory shall always be
                            entitled to the benefits of the writ of habeas corpus, and of the trial by Jury; of a
                            proportionate representation of the people in the legislature, and of judicial proceedings
                            according to the course of the common law; all Persons shall be bailable unless for capital
                            offences, where the proof shall be evident, or the presumption great; all fines shall be
                            moderate, and no cruel or unusual punishments shall be inflicted; no man shall be deprived
                            of his liberty or property but by the judgment of his Peers, or the law of the land; and
                            should the Public exigencies make it necessary for the common preservation to take any
                            person's property, or to demand his particular Services, full compensation shall be
                            made for the same;—and in the just preservation of rights and property it is
                            understood and declared, that no law ought ever to be made, or have force in the said
                            territory, that shall in any manner whatever interfere with, or affect private Contracts or
                            engagements, bona fied and without fraud previously formed
                        
                     ARTICLE THE THIRD. Religion, Morality and knowledge being necessary to good
                            government and the happiness of mankind. Schools and the means of education shall forever be
                                encouraged.5 The utmost good faith shall always be observed towards
                            the Indians; their lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent;
                            and in their property, rights and liberty, they never shall be invaded or disturbed, unless
                            in just and lawful wars authorized by Congress; but laws founded in justice and humanity
                            shall from time to time be made, for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for
                            preserving peace and friendship with them—
                        
                     ARTICLE THE FOURTH. The said territory, and the States which may be formed
                            therein, shall forever remain a part of this Confederacy of the 
                                United States
                             of America, subject to the Articles of Confederation, and to such alterations
                            therein as shall be constitutionally made; and to all the Acts and Ordinances of the 
                                United States
                             in Congress Assembled, conformable thereto. The Inhabitants and Settlers in the
                            said territory, shall be subject to pay a part of the federal debts contracted or to be
                            contracted, and a proportional part of the expences of Government, to be apportioned on them
                            by Congress, according to the same common rule and measure by which apportionments thereof
                            shall be made on the other States; and the taxes, for paying their proportion, shall be laid
                            and levied by the authority and direction of the legislatures of the district or districts
                            or new States, as in the original States, within the time agreed upon by the 
                                United States
                             in Congress Assembled. The 
                        
                           4 This seems a commonplace right in the 
                                        United States
                                     today, but it was the outcome of long periods of bitter struggle and
                                    warfare, something that should be kept in mind.
                        
                           5 This clause relating to education is often cited and highly
                                    praised. It meant little more than the expression of a hope on the part of those who
                                    sponsored it. It was certainly not a mandate. It took the people of Indiana, for
                                    example, a long time after admission to the Union to establish our free school
                                    system.
                     
                             legislatures of thos districts or new States, shall
                            never interfere with the primary disposal of the Soil by the 
                                United States
                             in Congress Assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find necessary for
                            securing the title in such Soil to the bona fide purchasers. No tax shall be imposed on
                            lands the property of the 
                                United States
                            ; and in no case shall non Resident proprietors be taxed higher than Residents.
                            The navigable Waters leading into the 
                                Mississippi
                             and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same shall be common
                            highways, and forever free, as well to the Inhabitants of the said territory, as to the
                            Citizens of the 
                                United States
                            , and those of any other States that may be admitted into the Confederacy,
                            without any tax, impost or duty therefor—
                        
                     ARTICLE THE FIFTH. There shall be formed in the said territory, not less
                            than three nor more than five States; and the boundaries of the States, as soon as 
                                Virginia
                             shall alter her act of Cession and consent to the same, shall become fixed and
                            established as follows, to wit: The Western State in the said territory, shall be bounded by
                            the 
                                Mississippi
                            , the Ohio and Wabash Rivers; a direct line drawn from the 
                                Wabash
                             and Post Vincents due North to the territorial line between the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Canada
                            , and by the said territorial line to the lake of the Woods and 
                                Mississippi
                            . The middle State shall be bounded by the said direct line, the 
                                Wabash
                             from Post Vincents to the 
                                Ohio
                            ; by the 
                                Ohio
                            , by a direct line drawn due North from the mouth of the great Miami to the said
                            territorial line, and by the said territorial line.—The eastern State shall be
                            bounded by the last mentioned direct line, the 
                        Ohio, Pennsylvania
                     ,
                            and the said territorial line; provided however, and it is further understood and declared,
                            that the boundaries of these three States, shall be subject so far to be altered, that if
                            Congress shall hereafter find it expedient, they shall have authority to form one or two
                            States in that part of the said territory which lies north of an east and west line drawn
                            through the southerly bend or extreme of lake 
                                Michigan
                            : and whenever any of the said States shall have sixty thousand free Inhabitants
                            therein, such State shall be admitted by its Delegates into the Congress of the 
                                United States
                            , on an equal footing with the original States, in all respects whatever; and
                            shall be at liberty to form a permanent Constitution and State Government; Provided the
                            Constitution and Government so to be formed, shall be Republican, and in conformity to the
                            principles contained in these Articles; and so far as it can be consistent with the general
                            interest of the Confederacy, such admission shall be allowed at an earlier period, and when
                            there may be a less number of free Inhabitants in the State than sixty thousand.
                        
                     ARTICLE THE SIXTH. There shall be neither Slavery nor involuntary Servitude
                            in the said territory otherwise than in the punishment of Crimes, whereof the Party shall
                            have been duly Convicted: Provided always that any Person escaping into the same, from whom
                            labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the original States, such fugitive may be
                            lawfully reclaimed and conveyed to the Person claiming his or her labor or service as
                                aforesaid—6
                  
                        
                     
                        6 This is both an anti-slavery provision and a fugitive slave
                                provision. It has been 
                  
                        
                        
                     Be it Ordained by the Authority aforesaid, that the Resolutions of the 23d
                            of April 1784, relative to the subject of this ordinance, be, and the same are hereby
                            repealed and declared null and void.—
                        Done so.
                        On passing the above Ordinance the yeas & nays being required by Mr. Yates
                        
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            Massachusetts
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Holten
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Dane
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            New York
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Smith
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Haring
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Yates
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            New Jersey
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Clarke
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Schurman
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    Deleware
                                
                        Mr. Kearny
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Mitchell
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            Virginia
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Grayson
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. R. H. Lee
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Carrington
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            North Carolina
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Blount
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Hawkins
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    South Caoolina
                                
                        Mr. Kean
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Huger
                        ay
                     
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            Georgia
                                        
                                    
                                
                        Mr. Few
                        ay
                        ay
                     
                     
                         
                        Mr. Pierce
                        ay
                     
                  
                        So it was resolved in the affirmative.
                    
            
            
               mentioned with force and feeling more often than any other part of the Ordinance, that is, the
                        part prohibiting slavery, but it is not the most vital or far-reaching provision. There was
                        virtual slavery in various parts of the old Northwest for a good many years in spite of this
                        prohibitory clause. There had to be a fight against slavery in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         even with the provision in the Ordinance. The anti-slavery clause aided the
                        free-state element, but they would quite certainly have won in the struggle against slavery had
                        the Ordinance been silent on the question.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Civil War and Reconstruction. By James G. Randall. 
                        Boston
                    , D. C. Heath and Company, 1937. Pp. xvii, 959, illustrations, maps, $4.50.
            This comprehensive work is a synthesis of the better monographs and accounts dealing with the
                    background, individuals, and events of the Civil War and Reconstruction and an admirable integration
                    of that synthesis with the author's own study and investigation in those fields. The author
                    has treated understandingly and sympathetically the opinions and purposes of both the actual
                    participants in the controversies and the subsequent historians of those events whether the
                    participants or historians were over-zealous abolitionists or per-fervid secessionists. In fact,
                    through the agency of quotations, he has permitted many spokesmen of both sides to present their
                    cases. His use of many recent studies on the struggle between the states and the readjustment of the
                    South tends to result in a more impartial and, therefore, a more scholarly account.
            In nearly nine hundred pages of compactly written text, the author has summarized the social,
                    economic, political, and cultural background of the war between the states; related the sharp verbal
                    controversies between the spokesmen of the North and South upon the questions of the status of
                    slavery in the slaveholding states, the extension of slavery into the territories, and the right of
                    a state to secede to protect its local interests. He has detailed the determined steps of the
                    secessionists in their withdrawal from the Union and the formation of their government, the wavering
                    policy of President Buchanan in the face of secession, and the firm policy of President Lincoln and
                    the Republicans to preserve the Union. He has traced the efforts of both the Federal and Confederate
                    governments to raise troops, acquire money, and procure diplomatic advantages abroad; set forth the
                    military, political, and economic phases of the war; and concluded with an account of the
                    politically minded Radical Republicans over-riding President Johnson and continuing under President
                    Grant with their plan to reconstruct the states legally, ignoring the need of the southern people
                    for social and economic rehabiliation. The treatment of the various phases has been inclusive,
                    although necessarily restricted in space.
            
            The style is concise and clear but rather heavy as a result of the packing of such a great mass of
                    information into one volume. The lack of readability, however, is more than outweighed by the value
                    of the work to teachers and students of the history of the 
                        United States
                    . In addition to the informational value, the book contains a selective bibliography of
                    forty-nine pages, which, however, has a paucity of the pertinent primary sources. There is an
                    adequate index of thirty-four pages and a good table of contents. There are eighty-seven pages of
                    illustrations, some of which contain as many as five portraits, and twenty-four maps and graphs.
            Finally, the book is remarkably free from typographical errors. Likewise factual errors are
                    negligible and, since the author has maintained a broad sympathetic perspective throughout the work,
                    errors of interpretation have been minimized. In its entirety, Professor Randall's book
                    represents a valuable contribution to the historiography of the Civil War and Reconstruction.
            RUSSELL J. FERGUSON.
         
         
            
               Solon Robinson, Pioneer and Agriculturist, II, 184–851. Edited by
                    Herbert Anthony Kellar. The Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1936. Pp. xvii, 556, illustrated, $2.00.
            The second volume of Solon Robinson includes carefully selected writings from the years 1846 to 1851,
                    prefaced by a calendar of all his located works. The editorial labor is of the same high type as in
                    the first volume and the format remains unchanged, but the reader will find a different, more
                    mature, more thoughtful Solon. As pioneer, dirt farmer, agricultural organizer, dreamer, political
                    enthusiast and reformer, the reader was apt to tolerate his views and understand his limitations of
                    earlier years. Now his limitations are fewer, his opinions more definite, his views broader and more
                    philosophical, but one may on occasion stop to question his motive or judgment. Generally accepted
                    as a national figure, he felt his responsibility. Apparently the traveling correspondent of the American Agriculturist and agent of Allen's Agricultural Warehouse
                    approached professionalism, whereas earlier his amateur standing could hardly be questioned.
            The scope and content of subjects upon which Robinson wrote are not always indicated by the title,
                    but the index is  fairly complete and it may also serve in part
                    as a table of contents. There is information upon: important persons; 
                        Canada
                    ; northern farms and southern plantations; domestic and foreign trade; the early history
                    of 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana; agricultural fairs and livestock shows; horticulture and gardening; buildings
                    and furniture; the use of various fertilizers; plows and other agricultural implements; railroads
                    and highways; value and cost of types of fences; recipes and cookery; bagasse; "Yaupon
                    tea"; lightning rods;, millstones—all and sundry were pressed upon a
                    "nonreading generation" for their diversion and education.
            Extensive travels through the eastern half of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     gave Robinson much opportunity to compare sections and methods. He recommended
                    "book farming," but found that whereever he traveled there was too often a
                    distinct distrust of things scientific or academic. Northern districts drew sharp rebukes for
                    antiquated and wasteful habits. He emphasized the need for soil conservation and the use of
                    fertilizer but found many farmers immune to his preaching. Guano and the sub-soil plow (sold by A.
                    B. Allen and Company) were favorite topics, but too many people could buy farms cheaper than they
                    could preserve those upon which they settled and the country seemed to like the "skin,
                    shave, and waste the soil" (p. 249) system of agriculture. Robinson encouraged prevention
                    of erosion, rotation of crops, and more careful cultivation.
            His favorable reception in the South provoked the following sentiment: "I am with people who
                    appreciate me for the talents & good qualities I possess, instead of hating, dispising
                    & cursing me because nature has endowed me superior to themselves" (pp.
                    48–0). In detailed descriptions of southern economy, he observed that cotton planting
                    alone was not very profitable; that sugar was an expensive and uncertain staple; that rice culture
                    demanded tedious preparation and attention; and that the South was too dependent upon the North for
                    products that could be produced at home. On the other hand, he believed that the South was too
                    suspicious of Yankees as a group. It was the "fear of ‘buying a pig in a
                    poke’" or a "Yankee humbug" (p. 130) that prevented a great
                    many southerners from buying improved implements and machinery.
            Included in this collection of writings is an extensive  treatise
                    on slavery and various other references to it, in which the author used the stock in trade arguments
                    of the leading protagonists of the institution. The poor living conditions of English and northern
                    free laborers are contrasted with the better lot of the southern slaves. There was need for better
                    understanding between North and South, but he saw little hope of it, as "no country was
                    ever cursed with worse enemies than the abolitionists" (p. 479). It is doubtless true that
                    he was justified in believing that his trip through the South would help to ease the sectional
                    tension.
            Wit, philosophy, cynicism, and dogmatism mark the treatment of subjects concerned with morals and
                    politics. People were negligent and irresponsible and would not profit by the experience and
                    experiments of others. "How much everyone should study contentment with his own lot,
                    striving more to improve his situation than to change it" (p. 453), may well be cited as
                    the motto for Robinson's articles, if not for his life. There was the instance of a whole
                    county being aroused to attend an agricultural fair—to see General Tom Thumb. His views
                    on current politics and intemperance are expressed in the statement that: "I don't
                    know how it is, exactly, whether it is in consequence of the sovereigns of southern 
                        Illinois
                     drinking so much whiskey, that General Cass gets so many votes in that district, or
                    whether so much whiskey is drank [sic] there in consequence of so many Cass men
                    being there…. " (pp. 13–32).
            This volume, like the first, shows Robinson as a far-sighted, keen reformer and progressive. He read
                    widely, traveled extensively and thought deeply. He was a remarkable person; his writings are
                    presented in proper form as a memorial to a leader in American development. Many others will hope,
                    as does this reviewer, that the remainder of the writings of Solon Robinson may find such capable
                    attention.
            FRED COLE.
         
         
            
               Unhappy 
                            Spain
                        . By Pierre Crabites. 
                        Louisiana State
                     University Press, 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , 1937. Pp. 244, $2.50.
            The tragic situation brought upon 
                        Spain
                     by the army rebellion is responsible for several books dealing with that unfortunate
                    country. Most of them are journalistic productions hastily put together in order to capitalize on
                    timely interest.
            
            
               Unhappy 
                            Spain
                        
                is not the work of a venturesome war correspondent but of a dignified judge
                    and lecturer on civil law at 
                        Louisiana State
                     University. This work, divided into twenty-one chapters and finished in December, 1936,
                    is a study of nineteenth century 
                        Spain
                    , with a few final pages devoted to the contemporary period.
            Mr. Crabites, consciously or unconsciously, takes it upon himself to defend the Catholic Church in 
                        Spain
                     and to make apologies for decadent and immoral monarchs from Ferdinand VII to Alfonso
                    XIII. The narrative begins with the restoration of Ferdinand VII to the throne of 
                        Spain
                     after the defeat of Napoleon. This bigot, imposed upon 
                        Spain
                     by the Quadruple Alliance, was responsible for many of the troubles that beset 
                        Spain
                     in the following century. He suppressed all liberty, and under him religious zealots
                    persecuted mercilessly the liberals who had approved the constitution of 1812. As a result the
                    secret lodges began to work for the restoration of liberty. Mr. Crabites seizes upon this detail to
                    launch a virulent attack against masonic lodges. According to him all continental Grand Orient
                    Masons are atheists, and all politicians, who for one hundred years strove for social or economic
                    improvements for the people, were masons or influenced by them. For him there is no possible
                    compromise with changing times; the democrats of the past were atheists; today they are anarchists.
                    If Spanish intellectuals labor for tolerance and progress, they simply show their Moorish strain.
            Mr. Crabites has no affection for the Spanish people. There is not a word of sympathy for them in
                    their struggles and sufferings. The poverty and misery of the workers and peasants are of no
                    interest to him. In fact the people hardly count in his approach to Spanish history. His only
                    concern is for the crafty politicians and intrenched institutions in their bickerings for power. To
                    say that the Spanish people are incapable of self government (p. 214), that they are selfish (p. 72)
                    and callous (p. 160) does not prove anything, for we can easily direct these charges against any
                    people. He accuses the Spanish people of cowardice because they did not show enthusiasm in the
                    Spanish American War. It was not cowardice but weariness of useless colonial ventures. They will
                    fight for a cause, as they fought against Napoleon and as they are fighting now. The author devotes
                    considerable space to the Spanish American War and concludes that we intervened in 
                        Cuba
                    
                     solely to protect our country from Cuban mosquitoes that
                    threatened our shores every summer.
            The book being an attack against the Spanish republican government, Mr. Crabites spares no means to
                    prejudice the reader against that government. He does not have the facts in mind. He maintains that
                    the Popular Front which won the elections on February 16, 1936, included the syndicalists and the
                    anarchists. A greater error is the affirmation that Azana's government from
                    193–934 was Ararcho-syndicalist (p. 203). He should know better and accuracy should be
                    important even when one has a theory to present. The author does not make the current accusation
                    that the government is communistic but condemns it more harshly. The government is, according to Mr.
                    Crabites, dominated by anarchist gangsters. So the army revolted to save 
                        Spain
                     from such conditions! Like many other apologists for the present rebels, Mr. Crabites
                    confuses the reader by asserting that the extremists were in power before the revolt began, though
                    the truth is that not even the socialists were represented in the Cabinet. To-day it is different,
                    of course. To gain the cooperation of all the important groups defending the republic they were
                    given representation in the government, and we find men representing diametrically opposed
                    pholosophies working together against the common enemy.
            In brief, Unhappy 
                            Spain
                        
                while it contains some interesting material fails to give us an insight into
                    contemporary 
                        Spain
                    . It is a book this is very unsatisfactory to those who know something about 
                        Spain
                     and it is unfortunately misleading to those who do not. Its main faults are: narrowness
                    of view; the tendency to see in every liberal an anarchist or an atheist; lack of sympathy for the
                    Spanish people; and a lack of acquaintance with established facts. Mr. Crabites ends his work with a
                    warning to the American people to beware of propaganda. The reviewer concurs with him in this
                    warning, especially after reading his volume.
            AGAPITO REY.
         
         
            
               The Life and Times of Giles Richards (182–860). By Ophia D. Smith. 
                        Ohio State
                     Archaeological and Historical Society, 
                        Columbus
                    , 1936. Pp. xii, 130, illustrated, $2.00.
            This small volume, edited by Dr. Harlow Lindley, Secretary  of
                    the 
                        Ohio State
                     Archaeological and Historical Society, is made up of a brief sketch of Giles Richards
                    and his family with a considerable number of letters preserved by different members of the family.
                    Elizabeth Richards married Alfred West Gilbert in 1848. In 1873, Mr Gilbert bought
                    "Elland", the Giles Richards home, and lived there until his death in 1900. The
                    Richards and Gilbert manuscripts were found in the attic of this old home and were acquired by the
                    Library of Miami University at 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               .
            Giles Richards was born in 1754 in the colony of 
                        Connecticut
                    . In 1789 he married Sally Adams, daughter of a clergyman of Roxbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who belonged to a collateral line of the family of John Adams, second President of the 
                        United States
                    . Mr. Richards engaged in business with success. He traveled widely and knew many
                    prominent men of his day. He died in 1829 at Dedham, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Six of the children of Giles and Sally (Adams) Richards grew to maturity. A daughter
                    Sarah married Amos Lawrence. Two sons, Giles and Amos Adams, migrated to 
                        Ohio
                     in the period following the War of 1812, where they were later joined by their brother
                    Charles.
            The correspondence is not arranged chronologically, but is classified and parts of it printed in each
                    of chapters IV to VII (which are headed, respectively, "Elland", "Letters
                    of Travel, 183–878", "Social Life in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 183–848", "The 
                        Ohio
                     Female Collegequot;. Since this arrangement has been followed, a chronological list of
                    the letters included should have been supplied. The following paragraph from the
                    "Preface", correctly indicates the nature of the information which may be gathered
                    by reading the correspondence: 
                        These letters contain valuable information on the river trade in the early nineteenth
                            century, the early textile manufacturing of southern 
                                Ohio
                            , the home and community life from 1830 to 1862, the social and economic
                            conditions in 
                                New Orleans
                             and the new countries of 
                                Illinois
                             and 
                                Iowa
                             in the thirties and forties, the social life in 
                                Cincinnati
                             in the forties, and a glimpse of college life as a girl saw it at 
                                Ohio
                             Female College in the fifties….
                    
            
            The author adds what must, unfortunately, be said all too often of manuscript collections:
                    "It is to be regretted that a more complete series of records cannot be offered, but time
                    has a heart breaking way of spiriting away the very papers that one needs to complete a
                    story." Nevertheless,  the little volume is well worth
                    while and readers will enjoy it and be thankful for its preparation and publication.
         
         
            
               Anglo-French Boundary Disputes in the West, (174–763) Edited by
                    Theodore Calvin Pease. 
                        Illinois State
                     Historical Library, 
                        Springfield
                    . Pp. clxxi, 607, maps, $2.50.
            This large volume (
                  
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections, XXVII, "French Series", II) is made
                    up of an "Introduction" of one hundred seventy-one pages and five hundred
                    sixty-eight pages of documents. The "Introduction" is, as the author states,
                    "in a sense the story of the Franco-English diplomacy of the Seven Years Warquot;. It is
                    divided into three parts: "To the Rupture of Diplomatic Relations, July, 1775";
                    "War and Diplomacy, 175–761"; "The Making of the Peace of
                    Parisquot;.
            The "Documents" are printed chronologically, but under sixteen headings in as many
                    separate divisions. The French documents appear in the original language with accompanying
                    translations. They constitute an unusual body of excellent source material carefully edited and
                    preceded by a brief but scholarly monograph. The index seems to be fully adequate. The volume is
                    indeed a splendid piece of work which students of Anglo-French relations in the period from 1755 to
                    1763 will welcome and use to advantage.
            W.O.L.
         
         
            "The Oratorical Principles and Practice of Beveridge" (Archives of
                        Speech, vol. I, no. 4, University of 
                        Iowa
                    ). By Herold T. Ross, 
                        Iowa City
                    , 1936. Pp. 9–68.
            In any list of outstanding orators who have been heard within the memory of living Americans the name
                    of Albert J. Beveridge stands near the top. From the time of his election to the 
                        United States
                     Senate until his death in 1927 he was one of the masters of the platform art. In his
                    scholarly monograph, "The Oratorical Principles and Practice of Beveridge",
                    Professor Herold T. Ross of DePauw University describes the education and preparation which preceded
                    Beveridge's emergence as a nationally recognized orator and analyzes his speaking technique
                    during his distinguished career. Beveridge was blessed with undoubted natural endowment—a
                    keen mind, a fine voice and an impressive appearance; but behind every  oratorical triumph lay hours of study, revision and practice. This
                    diligence continued throughout his career.
            Young Beveridge had already elected to be an orator when he came to Indiana Asbury, now DePauw,
                    University, in 1881. "The atmosphere of ‘Old Asbury’, whose
                    representative had won the Interstate Oratorical Contest in 1881, was propitious. College life
                    centered in the literary societies where debates, declamations, oratorical and essay contests
                    provided absorbing activities. Ability to win upon such occasions was the highest distinction which
                    a student could achieve. Under such conditions, it was natural that the students should have
                    formulated defininte theories for oratorical development, in accordance with which they made their
                    preparation. Beveridge read widely and practiced public speaking at every opportunity.
                    "Many a morning," wrote David Graham Phillips, "I have seen him, long,
                    long before sunrise, start across the snow into the woods to practice; and he would get back in time
                    to study Shakespeare or the great orators for an hour before breakfast." Apocryphal or not,
                    such a story is illustrative of Beveridge's efforts to improve his speaking technique. By
                    the time of his graduation in 1885, he had captured numerous campus prizes and had won the state and
                    interstate oratorical contests.
            In the law office of Senator Joseph E. McDonald "the practice of thorough preparation and
                    revision acquired in college was developed into a deep-seated habit." Court work taught the
                    young attorney much in the adaption of speech and manner to different audiences, and the maxim of
                    the office, "A case properly stated is a case nearly won," caused him to
                    concentrate on clarity and simplicity. At this time he began his study of constitutional issues
                    which formed the subject matter of some of his notable speeches. His addresses were carefully
                    outlined and organized. Although he was effective as an extemporaneous speaker, he rarely departed
                    from a prepared manuscript. He did not commit speeches to memory, but the practice and preparation
                    preceding delivery resulted in a virtual repetition of the words of the manuscript. This memory
                    faculty was not an unalloyed asset. While he was successful in delivering a prepared address, he
                    often seemed fearful that his achievement would not reach the excellence he had set for himself.
                    Sometimes he was nervous and irritable  until he reached the
                    platform, and during campaigns he occasionally offended local committees and politicians.
            Professor Ross finds certain general principles defended in the speeches of Beveridge: 
                        Whatever would make the 
                                United States
                             the greatest republic on earth, is desirable as a national policy.
                        Whatever contributes to the inherent welfare of the American people is Constitutional.
                        Whatever challenges in any way the fundamental institutions or the exercise of the
                            Constitutional government should be condemned.
                    
            
            With such a broad nationalism as a sympathetic background and with his habits of research, exhibited
                    in all his speeches and orations, it is not surprising that after his service in the Senate he
                    should write outstanding biographies of John Marshall and Abraham Lincoln.
            Professor Ross briefly presents Beveridge's position on the issues of imperialism, foreign
                    affairs, labor and state rights. He does not indicate the narrowing of Beveridge's
                    nationalism into the creed of the orthodox isolationist which is evident in his later addresses.
                    "When any changing of the map of the earth requires a conference of the Powers, and when at
                    any Congress of the Nations, the American Republic will preside as the most powerful of powers and
                    most righteous of judges, what American heart thrills not at the prospect?" This Wilsonian
                    excerpt from Beveridge is dated 1900. Nothing like it appears in speeches relative to the League of
                    Nations, which he opposed. On domestic issues his liberal nationalism remained more constant.
            Generalization from example was perhaps Beveridge's most conspicuous method of
                    argument," states the author in his discussion of the logical proofs of the
                    orator's speeches. The orator also employed deductive reasoning in many of his addresses,
                    and he was very effective in refuting the arguments of political opponents. He had faith in the
                    judgment of ordinary citizens, if issues were presented clearly and forcefully, and he carefully
                    constructed and developed his arguments so that they would be convincing to his auditors. Other
                    effective methods of driving points home are described and illustrated by Professor Ross.
            When Beveridge began his career, the oratory of the period was, like its architecture, too highly
                    embellished. However, he escaped the lure of the "spellbinding" of the day, and
                         after his election to the Senate his style became more
                    simple and direct. Occasionally he "spilled over." In several speeches he was
                    guilty of the "over use of an effective oratorical device," and in others he
                    succumbed to crude word pictures, probably in imitation of Robert Ingersoll whose oratorical skill
                    he naturally admired. After 1900 these crudities became rarer and were replaced by pungent epigrams,
                    forceful statements, and passages of beautiful prose.
            Professor Ross has written an analysis of interest, not only to students of speech, but to thousands
                    who remember Beveridge as one of the great orators and public figures of his day. Those who have
                    been impressed and thrilled by the orator's words will enjoy this
                    "back-stage" study.
            H. M. STOUT.
         
         
            The Newberry Library of 
                        Chicago
                     has published (1937) A Check List of Manuscripts in the Edward E. Ayer
                        Collection. This volume, compiled by Ruth Lapham Butler, runs to two hundred ninety-three
                    pages. There is an "Introduction" of two and a half pages, and a very complete
                    "Index" of seventy-three pages in which all the items in the calendar of
                    manuscripts are indicated by the titles, or names, and by the numbers given in the check list.
                    Through a half-century Mr. Ayer collected documents relating to the archaeology and ethnology of the
                    American Indian, to the history of various Indian tribes and to pre-Columbian geography. Other data
                    relate to the history of the Hawaiian and Philippine Islands. The entire check list is arranged
                    under the following headings: "North America", "Spanish
                    America", "Philippine Islands", "Hawaiian Islands",
                    "Indian Languages", "Philippine Languages", and
                    "Hawaiian Languagesquot;. This work should prove of great value to specialists who consult
                    the manuscripts. Copies of the volume, as long as the limited supply holds out, may be purchased
                    from the Newberry Library at $5.00 each.
            Dr. James A. Woodburn has recently completed a very interesting and valuable account, under the
                    title, Woodburn History: Some Generations of a Family, of which he has had a
                    limited number of mimeographed copies made and bound in paper. This story of his family, Professor
                    Wood-burn begins with his great-grandfather, James Woodburn, 
                    who was, so far as is known, the first of the name to migrate to America. The two hundred sixty-two
                    pages of Woodburn history are based on letters, diaries, and numerous other documents in the
                    possession of the family. The Wood-burn family is of Scotch-Irish descent. James Woodburn came from 
                        Ireland
                     to America just before the War of Independence and after several changes of location
                    settled down in 
                  Chester County, South Carolina
               , where he died in 1812. His son, Dorrance B.
                    Woodburn, migrated from 
                        South Carolina
                     to 
                        Monroe County
                    , Indiana, in 1830. The first Wood-burn home in Indiana was four miles south east of 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            The second son and fifth child of Dorrance B. Woodburn was James Woodburn, father of Dr. James A.
                    Woodburn. He was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1817. Dying in 1865, when he was but forty-eight years of age, James Woodburn led an
                    active and interesting life. He acquired a good education at Indiana University and made his mark as
                    a teacher. He felt very keenly the shortcomings of the public schools and labored with enthusiasm
                    and high purpose to improve them. He became the principal of the Preparatory Department of Indiana
                    University in 1853. He carried also the title of Adjunct Professor of Languages which meant about
                    the same as Associate Professor today. He remained on the faculty of the University till his death
                    in 1865.
            In his account of the Woodburn family, Professor Wood-burn includes very little beyond the time of
                    his father's death. The narrative includes much matter from the sources used, which adds to
                    its value. There is also much valuable information about 
                        Monroe County
                     families who were related to the Woodburn family. Persons interested in the history of
                    the Woodburn family, in 
                        Monroe County
                    , in Indiana University, or in United Presbyterians will find copies of the mimeographed
                    volume in the Indiana State Library, in the Public Library of 
                        Bloomington
                    , and in the Library of Indiana University.
            In The Southern Magazine for April-May, 1937, there is an article, "The
                    Glamour of the Old South", by Nina Oliver Dean, which includes a paragraph that all
                    students and writers who do research in history can well afford to read and reflect upon. Starting
                    with the statement, "In the last decade  the grim,
                    stark realism of the literature of the South has just about succeeded in dimming completely the
                    radiance of Southern glamour", the writer, after a brief discussion of the question,
                    concludes with this unanswerable passage: 
                        As long as there stands one ancient white-pillared house with a drawing room where light from
                            wax tapers in old silver candlelabra shines softly upon the portraits upon the wall above
                            and upon rosewood, mahogany and damask below; as long as there is a nursery where Joel
                            Chandler Harris' "Brer Rabbit" and the "Tar
                            Baby" are dearly familiar; as long as there is left in the land one colored mammy
                            who can cook fried chicken to a state of golden brown perfection that would make a French
                            chef envious; as long as this mammy has a little darkey boy that sticks his head from behind
                            the pantry door and shouts triumphantly, "Christmas Gif!"; as long as the
                            rotunda at the University of 
                                Virginia
                             stands guard over the most beautiful lawn in America; as long as the stars
                            shine on 
                                Alabama
                            ; as long as the peach blossoms are pink in 
                                Georgia
                            ; as long as South Carolinians and Virginians quarrel over whether eggnog should
                            be "spooned" or drunk; as long as there is one 
                                Kentucky
                             saddle mare mincing and pirouetting from her bine grass pasture up the avenue
                            to the "big house"; as long as the bright memory of Robert E. Lee remains
                            shining and unstained; as long as a mockingbird sings in a boxwood hedge and Cherokee roses
                            bloom in a Southern garden; as long as there is moonlight, magnolias and
                            romance—the Old South is not dead!
                    
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            SIX LONG YEARS GO BY
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Several things that were significant in my life happened between the fall of 1890 and that of
                        1896.1 To me those years passed slowly. Certainly they did not sweep along
                    at such a rate as have similar periods since 1920. Then I was impatient to reach the end of each
                    year, but for a long time now I have ceased to rejoice over the closing of any year. Once there
                    seemed plenty of time ahead to accomplish the things that I expected to do, but today so many remain
                    unfinished, or not even started, that I can only hope to complete a meager part. I think it was well
                    to plan much, and I am glad that I still have the desire to carry on and add a little more to the
                    modest total.
            I began to teach in October, 1890. I was married in June of 1894. In June, 1896, I completed my
                    course in the Indiana State Normal School. In September of that year, I became a teacher in the high
                    school of 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana. My first five years of teaching were done in my native county.2 After three years in country schools, each in a different township, I was given the
                    principalship of a village school. This was a new three-room school, formed by the abandonment of
                    two country schools—one about a half mile west and the other about an equal distance east
                    of the town of Yeoman. The following year, my last in 
                        Carroll County
                    , I spent at 
                        Camden
                    , where I was in charge of a long established four-room school.
            After the close of my first term, which ended on the last Saturday in January due to a shortage of
                    funds in Deer Creek Township, I entered the Indiana State Normal School in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The quarter was half gone when I took up the work in four regular classes.3 I passed in three of the courses and 
                  
                     1 The first chapter of this autobiography appeared in March, 1936, and
                            other chapters have followed regularly since, one in each successive issue. I attempted to
                            persuade several different persons, who reached maturity before 1900, to write their life
                            stories. In each case I failed, and, hoping that no reader would take offence at my
                            boldness, I finally started to tell my own story. The present is the sixth chapter or
                                installment.—Editor.
                  
                  
                     2 The three country schools were: "Plank-road"
                            School, in Deer Creek Township: Heistand School, in 
                                Madison
                             Township; Dimmitt School in Jefferson Township. In 189–4, I was
                            principal of the Yeoman Schools in Jefferson Township, and the next year of the Camden
                            Schools in 
                                Jackson
                             Township.
                  
                     3 Having decided to attend the State Normal School, I wrote a letter
                            of inquiry to President William W. Parsons. His reply discouraged entrance at the middle of
                            the quarter, but I wrote again. Being young and innocent, I stated that if "hard
                            work and honest endeavor" could bring success, I believe that I should win in the
                            struggle. This statement and the fact that the schools in my township were closing
                            prematurely brought a second reply which was favorable.
               
                     was given credit for the second-half of the course in the
                    fourth subject. In addition, I was given credit in the pennmanship course. I do not mean that it was
                    easy to earn credits in the institution. On the contrary, the members of the faculty seemed to hand
                    out failures rather lavishly. Indeed there were few institutions where the rule that students must
                    work or retire from the scene was more rigidly applied. I remained through the succeeding quarter of
                    1891, and returned for the spring quarters of 1894 and 1895. I did not teach the next year, but
                    spent the three quarters in the Normal School from which I was graduated in June, 1896.4
            
            The free, public schools of Indiana were operating successfully before I was six years old. It is,
                    therefore, still very difficult for me to realize that the system had really been established less
                    than twenty years when I began to teach in 1890. Much progress has been made since, but it would be
                    impossible to name another period in any state or country where a more rapid advance in education
                    was made than in Indiana from 1873 to 1890. In the rural school that I attended for nine years
                    before entering high school, and, in each of the country and town schools with which I was connected
                    as a teacher, the attendance was remarkably regular, textbooks were purchased by almost every family
                    as a matter of course, and rather unusual progress was made by the pupils. My astonishment, when I
                    think of all this, is all the greater when I remember the newness of the school system, the meager
                    training of the teachers, and the absence of truant officers. The reasons seem to be: that, having
                    waited long for the coming of a free school in every neighborhood, there was a very general spirit
                    of appreciation and pride on the part of the people; that, though the training of most teachers was
                    woefully inadequate, a great many of them were devoted to their work and concentrated with much
                    determination on the subjects that they were required to teach; that, in a period of few interesting
                    activities, going to school surpassed everything else in appeal to the children who made up the
                    classes to be taught.
            My first school was large, I was inexperienced, and I 
                  
                     4 In all, I was in residence six full quarters and two half quarters.
                            By earning practically the full number of hours for a quarter in each of the half quarters
                            mentioned and carrying extra work during my senior year, I was able to complete the
                            "old four-year course" (three years for high school graduates) in less
                            than the nine quarters. It was still true, in my period (189–896) that most of
                            the students were not high school graduates.
               
                     knew the boys and girls well, since it was in the home
                    district. For these reasons, I fear that I did a rather poor job. However, I did not fail. In my
                    second school, there were fewer pupils and I was somewhat better prepared. It seems to me that I
                    must have done fairly well under the circumstances. In any event I began to feel an urge to make
                    teaching a life work. For my third year as a teacher, the fates took me to a district in a distant
                    part of the county where I was unacquainted. In this particular school, the pupils had been very
                    poorly taught for a few years by a plodding, unprepared, but opinionated man. It was not only
                    necessary to interest the younger children and show them how to work, but the older ones as well.
                    There was little chance to make any headway with the pupils in the second, third and fourth years
                    until they were taught to write and to read script. It was a discouraging task. At the end of six
                    weeks of labor, I felt that I had exhausted my resources without noticable results. I had reached a
                    crisis. As I walked toward the home where I had engaged room and board about an hour after the close
                    of school,5 I resolved to go back one more day. If I could convince myself that
                    some progress was being made, I would stay—if not, I would quit. I knew a young man who
                    held a teacher's license but who had no job. I was sure that he could be induced to step
                    into my shoes. I do not know why, but things seemed to go better the next day, so I remained at my
                    post and I am still a teacher. I have always felt that I not only taught the boys and girls of that
                    school with some success, but that I somehow lifted them to a higher level of living.
            My first year as principal was one of the most delightful of my teaching career. My job was to
                    supervise the work of a primary teacher and an intermediate teacher and to teach the classes of the
                    seventh and eighth years. Compared to my previous work in handling one-room country schools, this
                    was an inspiring task. There was nothing to distract my attention and I was able to make the most of
                    my opportunity. At the close of the year, I accepted an offer from the trustee of Jackson Township
                    to take charge of the schools at 
                        Camden
                    . My salary at Yeoman was $2.75 per day for twenty-one days per month,
                    including pay for one Saturday each month on which 
                  
                     5 I lived during the term in the home of John Million, which was
                            located about a half mile west of the school house. The family was one of the finest that I
                            have ever had the opportunity to know.
               
                     day I was required to attend the Township Institute. Had I
                    remained at Yeoman, I was to have been advanced by twenty-five cents per day. Since I would be paid
                    $84 per month at Cam-den, including the "institute fee," with a term of
                    seven instead of six-months, I naturally made the change. The new salary was regarded as very good
                    in 1894, when the country was in the grip of a great depression. In general the wages of teachers
                    were low before the coming of the panic of 1893, but there was no reduction during the hard times,
                    certainly no general cut in salaries such as teachers experienced in the recent depression.
            Though I was the first principal at Yeoman, there had been a number of predecessors at 
                        Camden
                    . Several of them were able men who rose to higher positions in the educational world.
                    The three teachers associated with me cared for the pupils of the first seven years, leaving me to
                    handle the eighth grade and to introduce the freshman work of the high school as it was then
                    organized in Indiana. I need not say that I had a busy year. There were several bright pupils, with
                    some from homes of considerable culture. The town furnished most of the children, though there were
                    a few from the country. A good many new problems of discipline had to be faced, and it was hard to
                    arouse general or genuine interest in any subject. In short, I found myself in the midst of a
                    community that was too thoroughly sophisticated to get the most out of life. This was a stage that
                    the town had reached not long before and which it tended to pass out of in a year or two. I was
                    young and inexperienced, had only a year of college training plus four months in a business college,
                    and I had neither traveled nor read widely. I had, however, ambition, a curiosity that enabled me to
                    learn, and a fresh outlook on life. Working under several handicaps, I did as much as I could for
                    the school and solved some problems that left a smoother pathway for my successor. Near the end of
                    the term, I handed in my resignation, probably not a necessary procedure, as I feel pretty certain
                    that the newly elected trustee intended to bestow the principalship on another man regardless of any
                    claim that I may have had to be considered.
            While I was teaching in 
                        Carroll County
                    , I had to deal with four different township trustees as well as the county
                    superintendent of schools. The latter was Charles W. Metsker,  a
                    young man, perhaps ten years older than myself.6 He had spent but a short time
                    in college, but he was intelligent and devoted to his work. He was unusually kind to me and showed
                    too much, rather than too little, appreciation of whatever I was able to accomplish. The first
                    township trustee who employed me had been a blacksmith7 for many years before he
                    was elected to this public office. He was a substantial man in his community, with a large family,
                    who maintained an equality with the families of the farmers of the neighborhood. The second trustee
                    for whom I worked was an honest, kind, old man who meant well.8 At the close of
                    my term in 1892, he told me that he was planning to shift me to a different district possibly to the
                    principalship of a two room school. To the last named place, he appointed a man with more
                    experience. The other school went to a man who canvassed the patrons of the district and obtained
                    their signatures to a petition asking the trustee to hire him. This was a common practice. The plan
                    worked in this case, and I was out entirely. On the recommendation of the county superintendent and
                    the kind, old trustee just mentioned, I was given the Dimmitt School in Jefferson Township.
            The trustee who employed me for the two years from 1892 to 1894, was a farmer with a very limited
                    education and no polish.9 He imbibed a little too freely on occasion but
                    possessed native intelligence and had developed good judgment. It was a pleasure to work with him.
                    He was fair to every one and did much to improve the schools of his township. The last township
                    trustee to engage me was a physician of Cam-den.10 He was a man of considerable
                    latent force who talked very little. He did nothing whatever to hinder me in my work, but I cannot
                    recall that he made a single suggestion to me during the seven months. When, at the end of the
                    school term, I informed him that I had resigned to spend the next year in school, stating that I
                    might wish a testimonial when 
                  
                     6 The first term of Mr. Metsker began in 1891, a Mr. Barnes being his
                            immediate predecessor. The term of County Superintendent was then two years. Reelected in
                            1893, Mr. Metsker served four more years without the necessity of an election in 1895. This
                            was due to the fact that a now act changing the time of election was pronounced
                            unconstitutional by the Indiana Supreme Court. Superintendents then in office continued to
                            serve until their "successors were elected and qualifiedquot;. After his period as
                            county superintendent, Mr. Metsker spent the res of his life as a ward principal, first in 
                                Bellingham
                            , and later in 
                        Seattle,
                                    Washington
                     , where he died about six
                            years ago.
                  
                     7 James A. Arnott.
                  
                     8 James St. John.
                  
                     9 John Dilling.
                  
                     10 Cr. Charles Camp.
               
                     seeking a position after graduation from the Normal School, he
                    looked me over carefully and said very deliberately: "When the time comes write whatever
                    you care to and I will sign it."
            In the summer before taking up my work in 
                        Camden
                    , on June 27, 1894, to be exact, I was married to the daughter of a farmer who had come
                    into our neighborhood in the spring of 1889. A little less than twenty years of age at the time of
                    our marriage, this young woman whom I led to the altar had spent two quarters in the Normal School
                    at 
                        Terre Haute
                     and had taught one term. I rented a small cottage, which still stands on the same spot
                    in a good state of preservation, for five dollars per month. When I had purchased enough furniture
                    for this modest home, I was a little less than even with the world. I was soon to earn
                    $84 per month, so I saw no reason to worry over a small debt. Living costs were low at
                    the time. We could buy choice steaks at ten and twelve cents per pound. We could buy choice steaks
                    at ten and twelve cents though not unreasonable in price could hardly be purchased as cheaply as
                    now. This was because ready-to-wear garments for men and women were still very unsatisfactory in the
                    eighteen-nineties. To be well-dressed, a woman must buy the cloth and take it to a dressmaker, while
                    a man who liked to wear properly fitting suits must go to the tailor. Shoes were not expensive,
                    standard brands both for men and women selling for from $2.50 to $3.00 per
                    pair. When I bought the first pair of shoes for Bertha Thomas Lynch, she had been my wife for about
                    a week. They cost me $3.50. In that day this was regarded as a rather fancy price, and to
                    pay as much as $5.00 for a pair of men's shoes was looked upon as a foolish
                    extravagance.
            The panic of 1893 and the years of business stagnation that followed, I remember only too well. The
                    depression did not end with the election of 1896, but lasted through 1897 and 1898. If ever there
                    was a period of hard times when society, through its great democratic agencies, federal, state and
                    local governments, did nothing to bring about recovery, the years from 1893 to 1899, certainly
                    constituted that period. The moving picture and the automobile had not yet come. The entertainment
                    which vast numbers receive from athletic contests, collegiate and professional, except on a very
                    small scale, was unknown. Business was not only dead in the depression of the nineties, but it
                    looked the part. During those periods  there was little
                    movement. People stayed at home as much as possible. During the recent depression, moving-picture
                    houses repeated performances several times daily. Great crowds attended baseball, basket-ball, and
                    football games. Automobiles were constantly speeding along highways and over the streets of the
                    nation's cities. Not only this, but everywhere laborers were employed in order that their
                    families might live and that business and manufacturing might be stimulated through the increased
                    purchasing power created by work projects for those who would otherwise have been idle.
            Farm prices were not very high at any time during the two decades following 1873, but were much above
                    the depression level of the years following 1893. There was nevertheless a good deal of discontent
                    among farmers during the last years prior to the panic. When I returned from the Normal School at
                    the end of June in 1891, I found that a chapter of the Farmers' Alliance had been formed in
                    the home neighborhood. Tillers of the soil, with their wives, sons and daughters, had almost all
                    joined the organization. Of course much the same thing had been happening over the Middle West, in
                    the South, and in the great plains area for some time and the movement was still on. Democrats and
                    Republicans alike showed enthusiasm for the aims of the Alliance. A staunch Republican told me that
                    there would be nothing left of the two old parties by the time of the campaign of 1892. As far as he
                    was concerned, his vote had been cast for Republican candidates in the past, but in the future he
                    would vote for his own interests. For a time this sentiment was quite common among the men of the
                    community. The local Alliance chapter struck out against the existing regime to the extent of
                    pooling orders for sugar, tobacco and a few other commodities, but that was about as far as local
                    action went. In many places, grain elevators were purchased by farmer groups in an attempt to save
                    the "excess" profits that were being garnered in by the middlemen.
            The campaign of 1892 found most of the Alliance men of Indiana back in the ranks of the old parties,
                    and 
                        Carroll County
                    , though an agricultural community, was no exception to the rule. Indiana was too far
                    east to be much affected by Populism, the true home of which was the eastern, or more heavily
                    peopled, portion of the semi-arid plains, plus considerable 
                    parts of the South. In 1892, the voters of my home county, like those of most of the country, were
                    absorbed by the discussion of the tariff question. The pageantry that had been so characteristic of
                    many previous campaigns was conspicuous by its absence. As never before, Democrats and Republicans
                    read arguments and listened to speeches on both sides of the question. 
                        Carroll County
                    , at the end of the contest of 1888, when the tariff was first discussed extensively,
                    gave Harrison electors 2,607 votes as against 2,560 for 
                        Cleveland
                     electors. Four years later, after a more intense tariff controversy, the returns for 
                        Carroll County
                     showed 2,361 for 
                        Cleveland
                     electors and 2,230 for Harrison electors. The Populist electors, James B. Weaver being
                    the candidate, received 237 votes.11 In 1894, in the midst of hard times with
                    Democrats in power, the swing was back to the Republicans. In the presidential elections of 1888 and
                    1892 and likewise in the congressional elections of 1894, the voters of agricultural Carroll
                    responded to changing currents very much as did Indiana and the nation. My first vote was cast in
                    1892. The Australian ballot system was used for the first time in Indiana in 1890 The election of
                    1888 had all too completely demonstrated the need of a new system of voting, and the use of official
                    ballots that must be marked in voting booths meant a very timely and wholesome reform. I am sure,
                    however, that the honest men from the country-side felt somewhat ashamed that widespread purchase of
                    votes had made the new method of balloting necessary.
            When my school term ended in 1893, I did not go away to school, but entered into a farming
                    arrangement with my father. We rented some ground from a neighbor and planted an extra field of
                    corn. My expenses were small, but I did not do well as a farmer. A long drouth cut the production
                    very low. I was to have had our half of the corn from the rented field-When corn-husking time
                    arrived, that half was traded for a cow. The price of cattle had already fallen on account of the
                    panic, but my father succeeded in making a sale. Since I was already teaching and therefore earning
                    money again, I accepted only half the selling price of the cow. With this sum 
                  
                     11 The three parties together did not poll as large a vote in 1892 as
                            the combined vote of the two major parties in 1883. The Democrats carried the County in
                            1892, but the Democratic voters were fewer than four years earlier. The Populists drew votes
                            from both the old parties. The falling off in the total seems to have been due largely to
                            the lack of interest in the election displayed by the "floatersquot;. In 1888 this
                            class had been unduly "stimulated" to participate in the balloting.
               
                     I purchased a very pretty, simple, gold ring, with a small but
                    genuine stone. This represented the total return on my outlay of capital and labor during the period
                    from the middle of April to the middle of October, but it made me very happy to bestow the ring on
                    the girl of my choice who wears it yet.
            I have mentioned that I resigned my position as principal of the Camden Schools in the spring of
                    1895, in order to complete my course in the Normal School during the following academic year.12 By attending the spring quarter immediately following the close of my school
                    term, I was able to do this. During the summer of 1895, I taught in a local
                    "normal", or summer review term for teachers, as I had done the summer before and
                    as I did again the next year.13 These "normals" were common
                    for a good many years, but passed out quickly after colleges and normal schools established summer
                    sessions. The local "normals" usually ran for six or eight weeks. The teaching was
                    divided between, two instructors, and fees were collected from the teachers and prospective teachers
                    who attended. The tuition was five dollars for six weeks and seven dollars for eight weeks. The
                    total garnered in was divided between the instructors who shared the small expense of the venture.
                    No credits were earned and nobody failed. There can be no regrets that such schools passed out of
                    existence, but they served a purpose in their day. During each of the three summers when I was
                    connected with such "normals", I taught 
                        United States
                     history, reading, and methods. I cannot honestly say that I did not enjoy the work. I
                    should add that most of the students were really interested in the subjects taught and actually
                    accomplished something.
            At the end of the summer, my young wife and I packed our furniture for the first time and shipped it
                    to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . There we rented a part of a house, owned by a charming, intelligent, old Irish woman,
                    who lived in the rest of the house alone. At the end of the year, we packed our household goods
                    again and stored them till fall, when we had them shipped to 
                        Elkhart
                    , where I had obtained a "position" in the high school. 
                  
                     12 My plan is to deal with the Indiana State Normal School, is I knew
                            it from 1891 to 1896, in the September issue of the Magazine.
                  
                  
                     13 During the six-weeks session of 1894, the
                            "normal" was held in the school building at 
                                Camden
                            , my colleague being George Grosjean. In 1895 the session was again held in 
                                Camden
                             and ran for eight weeks. Cary D. Landis, now Attorney General for the State of 
                                Florida
                            , was my co-laborer. In the summer of 1896, the review session was held in
                            Flora. It ran for six weeks and Isaac F. Myer was the other instructor. Mr. Myer was later
                            County Superintendent and since that period has been in the insurance business. He now lives
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     We still possess a few pieces of the household furniture and
                    some of the dishes that we purchase din 1894, though we have since that time lived in twenty-four
                    houses, stored our effects six times, and shipped our belongings from one town or city to another by
                    train or truck nine times—not a low record, surely, even for a college professor.
         
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Dr. Clyde F. Snider is assistant professor of Political
                    Science, University of 
                        Illinois
                    . Charles K. Palmer is an instructor in history and geography, 
                        Washington
                     High School, East 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana. Clyde Peirce is principal of the schools at Huntertown, Indiana. Fred Cole is
                    Editorial Associate, Journal of Southern History, and assistant in history, 
                        Louisiana State
                     University. Dr. Russell J. Ferguson is associate professor of history, University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Dr. Agapito Rey is associate professor of Spanish, Indiana Uniersity. Dr. H. M. Stout
                    is associate professor of political science, DePauw University.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to com plete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices
                    above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write
                    to the Indiana, Magazine of Histor.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                  
                     * Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                  Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
                  Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
                  Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
                  Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
                  
                     * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                  
                     * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                  
                     * Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 190–913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files. 
                  183–833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–835. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  185–854. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 189–899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (190–929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy
                    Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for
                    any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at
                    $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            Pioneers of the Surber Family
            MAUDE SURBER SWISHER
            
            Isaac Surber and his wife, Artemacy Mayfield Surber, were pioneers of 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana. The Surbers originally came from some province of 
                        Germany
                    . The family lived there in prominence until after the Reformation in the sixteenth
                    century. Then the family gave up titles and possessions during a struggle for existence while
                    suffering from persecution and repression. Finally they fled to 
                        Holland
                     and from that country migrated to America. The first of the Surbers to cross the
                    Atlantic, sailed from Rotterdam on May 29, 1735, on the ship Mercury. At this time
                    came Henry Surber. fifty years old, Hendryk, sixteen, and Varena, five. Others who came to America
                    later were: Hans Surber, who left Rotterdam on the ship Priscilla on September 11,
                    1742, and Johannes, who left on the ship 
                        
                            Halifax
                        
                     on September 22, 1752.
            The writer's branch of the Surber family settled in 
                        Virginia
                    , Captain Adam Surber and Colonel Jacob Surber being the first of this line. Both served
                    in the Revolutionary War. After the War, members of the family migrated to 
                  Pulaski County, Kentucky
               . Isaac Surber was born in 
                        Virginia
                    . He married Artemacy Mayfield in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1829. They came to 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, settling on land near Gosport. Here they lived for the remainder of their
                    lives, and here on their farm they reared their family.
            The Mayfield family, that early settled in 
                        Virginia
                    , came from 
                        England
                    . The Mayfield Coat of Arms dates back to 1684. It may be described as a lion's
                    head cut off and holding in the mouth a mayflower, golden or bright yellow. In the front crest are
                    small perpendicular, but bright red, lines. The honor was bestowed because the Mayfields had helped
                    to feed the people in a crisis. There are several old manor houses in 
                        England
                    , located in Sussex, Derbyshire, and West Surrey that once belonged to Mayfield
                    families.
            Mayfield in Sussex is a very old town with the ancient row of timbered buildings, beautifully
                    designed. The Archbishop's Palace, with the tradtion of the famed St. Dunstan (925 to 988
                    A.D.), clinging to it, is there. Dunstan, when  Archbishop of
                    Canterbury, crowned princes at Mayfield.1 John Mayfield, Sr., who served as a
                    soldier throughout the Revolutionary War, was born in 
                  Albemarle
                            County, Virginia
               . He died in
                            
                  Pulaski County, Kentucky
               , in 1816. He was the father of Artemacy Mayfield Surber,
                    whose mother was Clarinda Pleasants Mayfield (174–821). The marriage of Clarinda and John
                    Mayfield took place in 1767.2
            
            Isaac Surber was born in 
                  Wythe County, Virginia
               , in 1789, and died near Gosport in 1849. His wife,
                    Artemacy Mayfield Surber, was born on October 9, 1804, in 
                  Pulaski
                            County, Kentucky
               . The marriage
                    occurred on' November 3, 1829, in 
                        Pulaski County
                    . They came to 
                        Owen County
                     in 1830. Mrs. Surber outlived her husband by fourteen years, dying on February 9, 1863.
                    Both are buried in the cemetery near Gosport, where a monument marks their graves.
            
                    
                        Children of Isaac and Artemacy Surber:
                        3
                        
                     Elizabeth Surber—b. Jul. 12, 1830; m. Richard Mugg, Oct. 16, 1851; d. Mar.
                                27, 1883. Children of Richard and Elizabeth Surber Mugg (all born near Qunicy, 
                                    Owen County
                                , Indiana, were: Jeremiah, Joseph Thomas, Isaac Newton, John H., George
                                McClellan, Riley Morton, Belle V., Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                , Charles Surber, Henry Mayfield.
                     Mary Surber—b. Oct. 5, 1832; m. Joel Ogles, Oct, 18, 1861; d. Jan 15, 1891.
                                Children of Joel and Mary Ogles: James I., Elmer E., Iviena, Ulysses Surber. All
                                deceased.
                     Thomas Surber—b. Dec. 76, 1834; m. Nancy Montgomery, Nov. 9, 1863; d. Jan.
                                28, 1909. Children of Thomas and Nancy Surber: Charles, Frank, Oda, John, Curtis, Gurd,
                                Samuel.
                     Thressa J. Surber—b. Feb. 15, 1837; m. W. M. Walters, Oct. 16, 1852; d.
                                Sept. 7, 1865. Children of this family unknown.
                     Henrietta Surber—b. Feb. 15, 1837; m. (1) Frederick Stierwalt, Dec. 10,
                                1864, and (2) Rev. Runyon. Henrietta died March 28, 1928, leaving no children.
                     Sarah E. Surber—b. Nov. 30, 1841; m. Thomas Seay, Dec. 25, 1859; d. Sept.
                                14, 1867. Children of Thomas and Sarah Seay: Lillie, James.
                     Clarinda Surber—b. Feb. 22, 1844; m. William Riley Mugg, Dec. 10, 1864; d.
                                Feb. 13, 1926. William Riley Mugg was a brother of Richard Mugg, who married Elizabeth,
                                sister of Clarinda. Children of William R. and Clarinda Mugg were: Javis, Mandiza, Mary
                                Maude. 
                           
                              1 Reuben Newton Mayfield, "History of the
                                        Mayfield Family," Compendium of American Genealogy: First
                                            Fatuities of America, edited by Frederick Adams Virkus, II, 122. See
                                        also references to Mayfield family ibid., III, IV.
                           
                              2 The Pleasants were from 
                                            Virginia
                                         where they intermarried with the Randolphs. Artemacy Mayfield
                                        Surber had a brother, John Mayfield, Jr. (176–813), who married Mary
                                        Wolfe (179–748).
                           
                              3 These records were filed in the State Library (Genealogy
                                        Section) by Miss Ura Sanders of Gosport, Ind. Miss Sanders is a descendant of
                                        Isaac Mayfield (brother of John Mayfield, Sr.) who was also a Revolutionary
                                        soldier. Names and dates of births, marriages, and deaths, are given as far as
                                        known.
                        
                     
                     
                     Henry Clay Surber—b. Nov. 30, 1846; m. Mary Elizabeth Day Mallicoat, June
                                6, 1868; d. Sept. 14, 1885. Children of Henry Clay and Elizabeth D. M. Surber: Maude,
                                Artemacy Gertrude, Claude Clay, Parker Albert. Maude (or Mary Maude) and Claude Clay
                                Surber are yet living, the last in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Ind. (P.O. Box 706). Maude married James A. Swisher and lives at 411 N.
                                Main Street, 
                                    Paris
                                , Ill. She compiled the records of this family and also placed a tablet in
                                their memory in the Riverside Cemetery, 
                                    Spencer
                                , Indiana, where Henry Clay and Mary Surber, her parents, are buried. She is
                                a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution through the service of John
                                Mayfield, Sr. (Number 270639).
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            The Isaac Harvey Family
            ETHEL JONES MCEWEN
            
            Isaac Harvey, son of William and Judith Harvey, was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     on September 21, 1718. His parents were born in 
                        England
                    . They were married on June 12, 1714. The mother was a widow when she married William
                    Harvey, her first husband being Peter Osborn. William and Judith Harvey came to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     soon after their marriage, where they built the house in which Isaac was born. The
                    Harvey home was on the Brandywine not far from Chadds Ford, where 
                        Washington
                    's troops fought the British on September 11, 1777. Before the Revolutionary
                    War, the home had passed into the hands of William Harvey, Jr., a brother of Isaac. During the
                    Battle of Chadds Ford a cannon ball struck the house and lodged in the wall. The building, which
                    still stands, remained in the hands of the Harvey family until 1926.
            Isaac Harvey married Martha Newlin, daughter of Nathaniel and Jane (Woodward) Newlin, who was born on
                    September 18, 1721. They lived in 
                        Chester County
                        Pennsylvania
                    . She died in 
                        North Carolina
                     on November 23, 1906. Her husband had passed away on April 3, 1792.
            
               Children of Isaac and Martha (Newlin) Harvey: 
                  William Harvey—b. Nov. 29, 1749; d. Mar. 3, 1781; m. Elizabeth Carter about
                            1762. Elizabeth—dau. Nathaniel and Ann (McPherson) Carter; b. June 16, 1737.
                            Eight children.
                  Hanna Harvey—(no record).
                  Martha Harvey—b. (date unknown); d, 1825; m. (1) —— Shy;
                            (2) Jesse Towell, at Spring Meeting, N.C., on July 5, 1795.
                  Rachel Harvey—b. (date unknown); m. Joseph Hadley, son of Joshua and Patience (
                                Brown
                            ) Hadley of Chatham, at 
                                Cane Creek
                             Meeting, N.C. Joseph—b. Oct. 5, 1745.
                  Edith Harvey—b. (date unknown); m. (1) John Reynolds (2) George Madden, son of
                            Barnabas Madden. George Madden—b. 1759; d, 1823; soldier in Revolutionary War.
                  Caleb Harvey—b. 1754; m. Mary Mooney, Jan. 21, 1779, at 
                                Cane Creek
                             Meeting, N.C.
                  Ruth Harvey—b. Dec. 25, 1755; m. Thomas Adkinson, 1781, at 
                                Cane Creek
                             Meeting, N.C.
                  Nathan Harvey—b. Sept. 21, 1759; m. Agnes Hoggatt. Agnes—b. Dec. 25,
                            1756; dau. Anthony and Mary (Agnes) Hoggatt.
                  Isaac Harvey—b. (date unknown); d. in 
                                Ohio
                            ; m. Lydia Dicks (Dix), Aug. 11, 1784. Lydia—dau. Zachariah and Ruth
                            (Hiatt) Dicks.
               
            
            
            The children of Edith Harvey (daughter of Isaac and Martha Newlin Harvey) and her second husband,
                    George Madden, were: Eli, George, Elizabeth, Edith, and Martha. The last named daughter, Martha
                    Madden, married John Tow-ell, son of Jesse and Hanna Rice Towell. The second son of John and Martha
                    Madden Towell was Jesse Towell, who was born on December 27, 1800. He died on March 3, 1833, in 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana. On February 2, 1826, he married Sarah Ann White of 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana. Sarah Ann was the daughter of Caleb and Parthenia White. She was born on May
                    17, 1803, and died on February 11, 1857. Parthenia Towell (daughter of John and Sarah Ann Towell)
                    was born on August 16, 1828, and died on June 22, 1885. She married Jonathan Lindley Jones on March
                    23, 1848. Their son, William Jesse Jones, was born at Paoli, Indiana, on December 12, 1855, and is
                    still living. He married Alice A. Wagner on May 22, 1883. She was born at 
                  Rochester, New
                    York
               , on May 11, 1859, and died at 
                  Danville, Illinois
                on December
                    12, 1919.1
            
            Isaac Harvey, Sr. (son of William and Judith Harvey) was a soldier in the Revolutionary War, though
                    he was born in 1718. His name is included in the list of white male inhabitants of the Township of
                    Upper and Lower Chichester in the proper classes.2 The will of Isaac Harvey,
                    Sr., dated "Fourth Day Fourth Month, 1800," of the County of 
                        Orange
                     and State of 
                        North Carolina
                    , gives: 
                        To my beloved wife Martha Harvey my House where I now live with all of my household Goods and
                            a Sufficient maintenance out of the produce and Income of my Lands, with sufficient firewood
                            to be cut and brought to the Door during her natural life….
                    
            
            Children mentioned in the will: Isaac, Caleb, Hannah, Rachel, Martha, Ruth; children of deceased son,
                    William, and of deceased daughter, Edith Madden. To his son Nathan, after 
                  
                     1 The writer of this family history (Ethel Jones McEwen) is a daughter
                            of William Jesse and Alice A. (Wagner) Jones.
                  
                     2 Newlin Township, 6th class, 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Archives, Fifth Series, vol. 5, page 792. This record was accepted by the
                            D.A.R. on June 20, 1933, as a supplemental record. The D.A.R. number of the writer (Ethel
                            Jones McEwen) is 256.026, on the service of Daniel Bonine. The record of George Madden (m.
                            Mrs. Edith Harvey Reynolds, widow of John Reynolds) was accepted Feb. 14, 1934. There are
                            many descendants of Isaac Harvey who will be interested in these records. Descendants of
                            Edith Harvey Madden are entitled to both records.
               
                     decease of his wife Martha, he bequeathed land, plantation
                    houses and household goods, after all debts were paid. This son, Nathan Harvey, was named executor
                    in the will, which was witnessed by James Newlin and H. Hastings.3
            
            
               
                  3 The genealogical information presented in this article is based on
                        Bible, family and church records, and on tombstone inscriptions. Many of the family lines have
                        been traced down to the present generation. Encyclopedia of American 
                                Quaker
                             Geneoioav, I, by William Wade Hinshaw, verifies many of these
                    records.
            
         
         
         
            The Enoch Smith Family
            JAMES H. TAYLOR
            
            William and Joice Smith were the parents of Enoch Smith, who was born on June 7, 1772, in
                            
                  Shenandoah County, Virginia
               , and died on August 24, 1824, in 
                  Clark County, Kentucky
               . Enoch Smith reached 
                        Kentucky
                     before he was married, but it is not clear whether his parents left 
                        Virginia
                     or not. He probably had brothers and sisters, but of them, we have no definite
                    information. After coming to 
                        Kentucky
                     on April 29, 1829, he married Nancy Poston. She was the daughter of Elijah (or Elias)
                    Poston and his wife Susannah. The Poston family had come to 
                  Bourbon
                            County, Kentucky
               , from 
                        Maryland
                    , when Nancy was a young girl.
            
                    
                  Children of Enoch and Nancy Poston Smith: 
                     Susannah Smith—b. Dec. 16, 1797.
                     William P. Smith—b. Sept. 4, 1799; d. Sept. 23, 1873; m. (1) Sophia Greer
                                (2) Elizabeth Tull (no children). (3) Mrs. Elizabeth Smith Thompson, daughter of George
                                and Nancy (Sharp) Smith of 
                           Shelbyville,
                                        Ky.
                         Mr. Smith was a distant
                                cousin of his third wife. No children born of this third marriage.
                     Daniel Smith—b. July 7, 1801; d. Jan. 15, 1872; m. Eliza Ann Gardner, Jan.
                                15, 1824. Eliza—b. May 31, 1806; d. Dec. 27, 1884. Ten children.
                     Cynthia Smith—b. Nov. 3, 1803.
                     Ann Smith—b. Nov. 28, 1805.
                     Jepthah Smith—b. Nov. 7, 1807.
                     Harvty Smith—b. May 24, 1810.
                     Jefferson Smith—b. Feb. 24, 1812.
                     Lydia Smith—b. Oct. 13, 1813.
                     Emily Smith—b. Aug. 12, 1815; D. Dec. 27, 1815.
                     Sanford Smith—b. Dec. 25, 1816.
                     Malinda Smith—b. Aug. 23, 1821; m. Truston Woolen; lived near
                                        
                           Georgetown, Ky.
                         Mrs. Woolen visited cousins at Fountaintown,
                                Ind., about 187–0. and had with her two daughters, Sally and Amelia, then
                                grown, but not married.
                  
               
                
            William P. Smith, eldest son of Enoch and Nancy (Poston) Smith, married Sophia Greer, who was born
                    Nov. 8, 1807, and died Oct. 21, 1854. Sophia was a daughter of James and Elizabeth (Mothershead)
                    Greer, and granddaughter of Stephen H. and Ruth (Anderson) Greer. Sophia Greer was also a
                    granddaughter of Nathaniel Mothershead and Ruth Burt, daughter of Moses and Hanna (Green) Burt.
                    James  and Elizabeth M. Greer came to Indiana in 1829 from
                            
                  Georgetown, Kentucky
               .
            
                    
                  Children of William P. and Sophia (Greer) Smith: 
                     
                                James Enoch Smith—b. July 11, 1827; d. July 22, 1905 at Fountaintown, Ind. (
                                        Shelby
                                     Co.) m. Margaret Cunningham, 1854. Margaret—b. Nov. 26,
                                    1835; d. Feb. 15, 1865; dau. David and Eleanor (Rawlings) Cunningham.
                                Two children of James Enoch and Margaret (Cunningham) Smith were: Mary Ann
                                    Smith—b. June 17, 1855; d. Sept. 1, 1857, and Sarah Elizabeth
                                    Smith—b. Sept. 22, 1860; m. Aug. 27, 1886, Charles Isham Taylor (born on
                                    Sept. 2, 1864). Four children. James Enoch Smith—m. (2) Nancy Abigail
                                    Thompson. Abigail—b, 1845; d, 1827; dau. of Joseph and Elizabeth (Smith)
                                    Thompson. Their children were: Margaret Smith b. Oct. 23, 1866, William Harvey Smith
                                    (b. Aug. 24, 1869), Adelaide Smith,1 11 (b. May 13, 1874, and m.
                                    Dr. Harry Miller) and James Robert Smith (b. Dec. 3, 1876).
                            
                     Jeptha Dudley Smith—b. May 14, 1829 (moved to vicinity of Stuart, 
                                    Iowa
                                .)
                     Nancy Elizabeth Smith—b. Oct. 31, 1831; d. (in infancy).
                     William Leland Smith—b. Jan. 4, 1835; d. in Civil War.
                     Cynthia Ann Smith—b. Jan. 16, 1838; m. Jason McGauhey.
                     Daniel Harvey Smith—b. Jan. 13, 1841; d. in Civil War.
                     Malvins (Mothershead) Smith—b. Nov. 1, 1845; d. Nov. 11, 1926; m. Goerge C.
                                Thompson (step-brother)2.
                  
               
                
            Daniel Smith, second son of Enoch and Nancy (Poston) Smith, married Eliza Ann Gardner, who was a
                    daughter of Thomas Gardner and Nancy Ann Flowers of 
                  Milton, Kentucky
               . They lived
                    near 
                  Milton, Kentucky
               . Daniel died while with his son Dr. John W. Smith, at Gosport,
                    Ind.
            
                    
                  Children of Daniel and Eliza (Gardner Smith:3
                        
                     Levi P. Smith—b. Nov. 15, 1824; d. Oct. 5, 1848 (unmarried).
                     Thomas Sinclair Smith—b. Jan. 28, 1827; d. Aug. 7, 1827.
                     John W. Smith—b. May 11, 1830; d. Jan. 9, 1903; m. (1) ‘Malinda
                                Davis Bell, of 
                                    Ky.
                                , (2) Mary Eliza Davis, June 20, 1859, a first cousin of the first wife;
                                lived at Gosport, Ind. Five children. Joseph H. Smith is the doctor mentioned in the
                                succeeding footnote.
                     Sarah Ann Smith—b. Apr, 18, 1835; m. (1) Richard Maddux (2) 
                                    Warren
                                 Callis. Six children. 
                           
                              1 Adelaide Smite Miller is a Daughter of the American
                                        Revolution (No. 78125), on the service of Nathaniel Mothershead.
                           
                              2 Errors in John Walter Wayland's, History of 
                                    Shenandoah County,
                                                    Virginia
                                 
                              
                                        (p. 664), regarding this family, are here corrected.
                           
                              3 These records have been prepared from family sources.
                                        Two family Bibles were available for the older generations given, and as all
                                        dates are the same in both Bibles the records are believed to be accurate. There
                                        were many doctors in this family who are well known in Indiana: Dr. John W.
                                        Smith of Gosport is the best known. His son Dr. Samuel E. Smith, was a professor
                                        in the School of Medicine of Indiana University for twenty years, being Provost
                                        during the last few years of his life. Dr. John D. Mothershead was an early
                                        physician of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , as was also Dr. Nathaniel H. Greer, both being connected with the
                                        William P. Smith line of this Smith family. Robert Fisk Smith who is listed
                                        above was a doctor of Glade Springs, 
                                            Va.
                                        
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     James Harvey Smith—June 19, 1836; lived in Indiana; name of wife or date of
                                marriage unknown. Five children.
                     Robert Fisk Smith—b. Mar. 29, 1839; lived in 
                                    Va.
                                 after Civil War; m. Florence M. Edmondson, of Glade Springs, 
                                    Va.
                                 Six children.
                     Nancy Gardner Smith—b. Mar. 29, 1839 (twin of Robert Fisk Smith) m. Henry
                                Brown; lived in Gosport, Ind. Six children.
                     Albert Redford Smith—b. July 5, 1841; killed in Civil War.
                     Oliver Strother Smith—b. Apr. 13, 1846; lived and died near Stamping
                                Ground, 
                                    Ky.
                                 Eight children.
                     Daniel Truston Woolen Smith—b. Sept. 10, 18—.
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            
               Attention: Queries should be typed to avoid mistakes in names and dates. They must
                    be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should be brief and definite. Answers for
                    publication will be appreciated. In connection with any answer, the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given. Traditions must be
                    verified. Bible records are requested for publication. Mail answers to Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris,
                    Salem, Indiana.
            Query 26: GRAY FAMILY
            John Gray was born in Md. and fought throughout the Revolutionary War. His wife was born in 
                        Ireland
                     and they lived for a short time in 
                        Va.
                     A son, Jesse, was born on Sept. 2, 1789, at Newberry S.C. Jesse married Sarah Stone in
                    1808 (dau. of William Stone). John Gray came to 
                        Wayne
                     Co., Ind., in 1810. A History of 
                        Randolph
                     Co., Ind., states that John Gray had 11 children, naming three: John, Hezekiah, who
                    went to 
                        Texas
                    , and Jesse, a soldier in War of 1812. Wanted Revolutionary service of John Gray, name
                    of his wife, with dates for both, also names and marriages of all his children.—H. G. F.
            Query 27: BARNES FAMILY
            Amos Barnes and his wife are buried in the Barnes cemetery 61/2 miles southwest of 
                        Huntington
                    , Ind. Inscriptions not clear, but Amos Barnes, died Oct. —, 1841. Their son,
                    John Barnes, died Jan. 5, 1849, and his wife, Elizabeth Barnes, died July 12, 1848. Bible records
                    show that Elizabeth, daughter of Jesse and Sarah (Stone) Gray, was born Oct. 5, 1812. Revolutionary
                    service is wanted for Amos Barnes, name and dates for his wife, and all their
                    children.—H. G. F.
            Query 28: BADGER FAMILY
            William Badger was born in 
                        Va.
                     Jan 15, 1775. He married (1) Catherine Ferguson, and their children were: Ann (married
                    Simeon Rish); Mary (married a Harris), and Jane (married Joshua Harris). William Badger, married (2)
                    Mary Emery. Their son Samuel W. born in Pa. Dec. 8, 1815. He married Jane T. Atkin. William died in
                    1857, perhaps in 
                        Ohio
                    . He had a brother Thomas, who lived in 
                  Wooster, Ohio
               , about 1840.
                    Would like parentage of William Badger, date of his marriage to Catherine Ferguson, with date of her
                    birth and death.—A. L. M.
            
            Query 29: PREWITT FAMILY
            Price E. Prewitt (Pruitt) was born in 
                        Ky.
                     about 1808, son of Joseph and Patsy (Elliot) Prewitt. Price Prewitt died March 1877 or
                    1878, in Owen Co. Ind., and was buried in the Jackson Family cemetery, near New Hope Church. He
                    married on Oct. 11, 1831, in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , his second wife, Elizabeth Stewart (Stuart), daughter of Thomas and Margaret Hannah
                    (Wason) Stewart. Elizabeth, died 1841 or 1851, in 
                        Greene
                     Co. Ind., and was buried in the Owen cemetery, near Worthington. No dates are on their
                    tombstones, only names. Dates of birth and death are wanted. The father of Joseph Prewitt, was
                    Elisha, who married Tabitha Collins. I would like the parentage of Tabitha Collins, and relationship
                    to John Collins, pioneer Methodist minister of 
                        Ky.
                    , and to Richard H. Collins, the 
                        Kentucky
                     Historian.—L. D. P.
            Query 30: ELLIS FAMILY
            Joseph Ellis, whose daughter Sarah, married Samuel Sellers in 1799, in Garrard Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , lived in 
                        Va.
                    , as Sarah was born 1783, in 
                        Va.
                     Do not know where in 
                        Va.
                     Would like this information, with name and dates of wife of Joseph Ellis, and record of
                    any service he may have given in Revolutionary War.—B. S. J.
            Query 31: MARTIN FAMILY
            William and "Caty" Martin's daughter Susan, (born 1799) married Lewis
                    Prichard, in Henry Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , in 1816. Wanted dates for William and Caty Martin, where they came from, and
                    Revolutionary service, if any, in this line.—B. S. J.
            Query 32: GWYN FAMILY
            Joseph Gwyn was born Dec. 19, 1771, and died near Midway, Woodford Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , in Jan. or Feb. of 1859. His children were Robert, John, Isabella, Joseph Mitchell,
                    Mildred, Eliza and William. Who was the father of Joseph Gwyn?
            Query 33: MITCHELL-BARNES FAMILY
            John Mitchell married Mary Ann Barnes and they lived in Owen Co., Ind., previous to 1828. She had a
                    brother Enos Barnes, and their father is thought to have been a revolutionary soldier, but his first
                    name is not known. The parents of Mary Ann Barnes Mitchell lived in her home in their old age. Any
                    information of the 
                        Mitchell
                    -Barnes family, when in Owen Co., Ind., will be appreciated.—C. E. K.
            
            Query 34: WILLIAM COX FAMILY
            William Cox was one of the first of the name to come to America. He is said to have come from
                            
                  Bristol, England
               . Was he a member of the Friars Friends Meeting,
                            
                  Bristol, England
               ? Are any records of this meeting to be found in the Congressional
                    Library, at 
                        Washington
                    ?—E. M. C.
            Query: 35 THE DEMAEEST FAMILY
            A record of the Demarest (Demaree) family has been for some years in course of compiling, by Rev. Dr.
                    W. H. S. Demarest, former President of Rutgers College and Miss Mary A. Demarest of 
                        New Brunswick
                    , N. J. The family, French Huguenot from Picardy, 
                        France
                    , is descended from David Demarest (des Marest) who with his wife and four children came
                    to this country by way of 
                        Holland
                     in 1663 and received by purchase the large tract of land known as the French Patent on
                    the Hackensack river in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1677, from the Indians, a purchase confirmed by the Proprietors of East Jersey.
                    Branches of the family, after the Revolutionary War, migrated from 
                        New Jersey
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                     and some of their descendants thence to Indiana and elsewhere in the Middle West.
                    Virtually all of these descendants have had correspondene with some of these families of the present
                    day. The work is now being completed, and it is requested that through the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, any one of this family interested, and not known to us, make
                    themselves known at any early date, by addressing the Rev. Dr. W. H. S. Demarest, Seminary Place, 
                        New Jersey
                    , or by writing to the Editor of the Genealogical
                    Section.—M. T. M.
            Answer to Query 9 (Sept 1936, p. 310, L. E. F.) Since sending in this query, I have received a copy
                    of deed (Record Book 41, p. 250) Clark Co., Ind., naming "Heirs of James Fislar",
                    as follows: wife, Gracy Fislar (second wife); Roderick G. Fislar; America S. Woodmansee (husband,
                    William); Elnora Fislar; Mary Fislar; Sally B. Fislar; Napoleon B. Fislar; William H. Fislar; Louisa
                    Walker (Some corrections made in spelling of names). Deed is dated March 4, 1851. A record of the
                    marriage of James Fislar to Susanna Bowman, (first wife) date given, Aug. 3, 1808. Another deed
                    giving heirs of Joseph Bowman, dated April 9, 1817 (Record Book, 12, 165) for Lot 48 in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , signed by James Fislar and wife,  indicates
                    Susanna Bowman Fislar, was the daughter of Joseph Bowman. These records prove that the parents of my
                    great grandfather Roderick Fislar, were James and Susanna (Bowman) Fislar, living in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind. The second wife, Gracy Fislar, is shown in the 1850 Census in 
                        Jackson
                     Co., Ind., with younger children, including William H. and Napoleon B. Fislar, half
                    brothers of Roderick G. Fislar. Most of wife's children were married in 
                        Jackson
                     Co., and I have these marriage records—Leslie E. Fislar, Veterans'
                    Hospital, Lincoln, Neb.
            Answer to Query 18, (March 1937 p. 107). In the Census of 
                        Washington
                     Tp., 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Ind., for 1850, the following is given: 
                        
                     Noah Ausman—age 33, laborer, born in 
                                    Ohio
                                .
                     Hannah Ausman—age 22, ——, born in 
                                    N. Y.
                                
                     
                     Census of 1860 (same township and county):
                     Noah W. Osborn—age 43, cripple, born in O.
                     Hannah Osborn—age 25, wife, born in N.J.
                     John C. Osborn—age 5, born in Ind.
                     Nancy Osborn—age 3, born in Ind.
                     Christena Osborn—age 9 months, born in Ind.
                     Abraham Ausman—age 80, laborer, born in Pa.
                     Ester Ausman—age 69, wife, born in Pa.
                     Bennagah Ausman—age 29, laborer, born in O.
                     Lidia Ausman—age 31, wife, born in O.
                     (Noah Ausman and Noah Osborn are doubtless the same person, as this family was known
                                by both names. Abraham Ausman may be the Abner Ausman mentioned in the query. The poor
                                writing and spelling of the Census are responsible for the mistake.—Mrs.
                                Edward C. Crider, 1213 West 
                                    Monroe
                                 St., 
                                    Kokomo
                                , Ind.
                  
                    
            
            Answer to Query 22 (March, 1937, p. 108). The exact date of the marriage (The query should have
                    referred to marriage not birth) of Joel Cloud and Rebecca Thompson is not recorded
                    in Hinshaw's Encyclopedia of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy, but the date he recived certificate of membership to the Lick Creek
                    M. M. (
                        Orange
                     Co., Ind.) is Nov. 30, 1822. This is from Spring Monthly Meeting, 
                        Orange County
                     (after 1849, Alamance Co.), N.C. This is found on p. 445. Also a certificate dated Feb.
                    28, 1818, for John Cloud of Eno to the Lick Creek Monthly Meeting, in 
                        Orange County
                    , Ind. Spring Meeting is about 15 miles southeast of Graham, in 
                        Alamance County
                    , N. C. This county was cut off from 
                        Orange County
                    , N. C., in 1849.—M. T. M.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            THE TANNEHILL FAMILY
            A copy of family records as found in an old Bible in the possession of Mrs. Fern Phipps Sprunger, 513
                    West Walnut Street, 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, and copied by Mrs. Hazel Grimes Finch, Registrar of the Mississinewa Chapter, 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana. This Bible was printed in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , for Mathew Carey, No. 118 Market Street, October 27th, 1802.
            
                    
                  Children of Samuel Tannehill:
                    (First record) 
                     Mary Tannehill—b. July 24, 1756.
                     James Tannehill—b. Mar. 19, 1759.
                     Rachel Tannehill—b. Feb. 5, 1764.
                     Christine Tannehill—b. Dec. 14, 1766.
                     Samuel Tannehill—b. Dec. 17, 1768.
                     Ruth Beali Tannehill—b. Dec. 23, 1770.
                     William Tannehill—b. May 19, 1773.
                     Ninian Tannehill—b. July 13, 1775.
                     Zachariah Tannehill—b. Jan. 13, 1777.
                  
               
                    (Second record) 
                     Samuel Nogle—b. 1789.
                     Anna A. Danning—b, 1806.
                     James Foglesong—b. Dec. 21, 1818. His hand and pen.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of John Birdsong and his wife Ruth: 
                     David Birdsong—b. Jan. 4, 1806.
                     Otho Birdsong—b. June 6, 1809.
                     Mary Birdsong—b. Apr. 11, 1811.
                     Elizabeth Birdsong—b. Jan. 9, 1813.
                     Ruth Birdsong—-b. May 24, 1815.
                     Matilda Birdsong—b. Jul. 4, 1817.
                     Susanna Birdsong—b. Mar. 11, 1819.
                     James Birdsong—b. Dec. 29, 1820.
                     John Birdsong—b. June 21, 1823.
                     Mahaly Birdsong—b. August 14, 1825.
                     Okey Birdsong—d. Apr. 25, 1883.
                     Otha Birdsong—d. Apr. 25, 1843.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of Henry Nogle: 
                     Ruth Nogle—b. Dec. 26, 1788.
                     Samuel Nogle—b. Aug. 28, 1789.
                     Mary Nogle—b. Dec. 15, 1791.
                     Henry Nogle—b. Sept. 31, 1793.
                     Janus Nogle—b. No. 2, 1797.
                     James Nogle—b. Nov. 2, 1797.
                     Elizabeth Nogle—b. July 11, 1801.
                     
                     Ichabod Spencer—b. 1774; d. Oct. 23, 1850, aged 76 years, 9 months, 13
                                days.
                     Ruth Spencer, wife,—b. 1788; d. Oct. 16, 1864. Aged 76 years, 2 months and
                                10 days.
                     Mahala Spencer—dau. Ichabod and Ruth Spencer; m. Alonzo A. Baker. Alonzo
                                A.—b. Dec. 16, 1816, in 
                                    Herkimer County
                                , N.Y.; d. May 6, 1884. Thirteen children.
                     (On page four of this Bible the name James Nail, with no dates, appears in three
                                places).
                  
               
                
            THE RISH FAMILY
            An exact copy of records taken from a Bible no win possession of Adah L. Miller of 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, Yount Apartments. Inside of the front cover appears the entry:
                    "Isaac G. Barrick was born February 2, 1829." On the first page is found another
                    entry: "William Badger was born January 15, 1775."
            
                    
                  Marriages: 
                     Margaret Rish—m. John Shriver, Jul. 14, 1839.
                     Hannah Rish—m. Ezekiel Wolf, May 8, 1842.
                     Rachel Rish—m. John Coulson, Nov. 3, 1842.
                     Joseph Rish—m. Catherine Kreiling, Jul. 4, 1844.
                     Catherine Rish—m. Nimrod Barrick, Dec. 23, 1850.
                     Sarah Rish—m. Isaac Barrick, Jan. 23, 1850.
                     Christina Rish—m. Nimrod Wildman, Nov. 25, 1852.
                     Ann Jane Rish—m. Manuel Reed, Jul. 24, 1853.
                     On blank pages between Old and New Testament, the following are recorded:
                     Ann Jane Mitchell—b. Jul. 22, 1822.
                     Simeon Rish—b. Jan. 5, 1780; son of Jacob and Margaret (Kissinger) Rish.
                     Anne Rish—b. Dec. 23, 1798; dau. of William and Catherine (Far-person)
                                Badger. William Badger—b. in 
                                    Va.
                                 Jan. 15, 1775; d.——, 1857. Married by Geo. Brown.
                                Esq. of 
                           Columbians County, Ohio
                        -Simeon Rish to Ann Badger,
                                April 4, 1816.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of Simeon and Anne Rish: 
                     Joseph Rish—b. Jul. 19, 1815.
                     Hannah Rish—b. Aug. 7, 1818.
                     Margaret Rish—b. Sept. 10, 1820.
                     Betsey Rish—b. May 13, 1823.
                     Cristina Rish—b. July 24, 1825.
                     Rachel Rish—b. Feb. 8, 1827.
                     Cathern Rish—b. Jan. 2, 1829.
                     Sarah Rish—b. April 17, 1831.
                     Ann Jane Rish—b. Apr. 15, 1833.
                     Mary Rish—b. Mar. 10, 1837.
                     
                     James Robertson Rish—b. Apr. 26, 1839.
                     Tamar Rish—b. Nov. 24, 1842.
                  
               
                    
                        Deaths
                        
                     Elizabeth Rish—d. Aug. 12, 1832.
                     Mary Rish—d. April 24, 1843.
                     Tamar Rish—d. Sept. 21, 1845.
                     Simeon Rish—d.—Mar. 1, 1848.
                     Joseph Rish—d. Mar. 25, 1848.
                     Catherine Barrick—d. Sept. 4, 1849.
                     Mary Ann Barrick—d. Sept. 17, 1849.
                  
                    
                
            THE ADAM WIBLE FAMILY
            (Contributed by E. S. Harvey of 
                        Kokomo
                    , Indiana, the records being supplied through the courtesy of Franklin J. Hole,
                            
                  Monrovia, Kansas
               .)
            Adam Wible married Hannah Harris on January 1, 1788. Hannah was born on July 1, 1767. She died on
                    January 15, 1794. On December 16, 1795, Mr. Wible married Jane Van-cleave, who was born on January
                    29, 1777. (Vancleave records indicate that the birth year was 1778).
            
                    
                  Children of Adam and Hannah (Harris) Wible: 
                     Susannah Wible—b. Oct. 4, 1788; d. Aug. 22, 1812.
                     John Wible—b. June 26, 1790; d. Aug. 16, 1815.
                     Joseph Wible—b. June 14, 1792; d. July 10, 1800.
                     Samuel Wible [twin of Joseph]—b. June 14, 1792; d. [Jul. —,
                                1888].
                     Dorsity Wible—b. Aug. 23, 1793; d. Jul. 10, 1800.
                  
               
                    
                  Children of Adam and Jane (Vancleave) Wible: 
                     Ruth Wible—b. [page torn], 1796; d. (date unknown).
                     Margarite Wible—b. Aug. 23, 1798; d. Dec. 11, 1798.
                     Charlotte and Polly Wible (twins)—b. Oct. 6, 1799.
                     Joseph C. Wible—b. May 26, 1803; d. (date unknown).
                     Margarite Dorsity Wible—b. Dec. 15, 1805.
                     Benjamin Vancleave Wible—b. Feb. 7, 1808.
                     Sirena Wible—b. Feb. 22, 18 [illegible] d. Aug. 20, 1811.
                     Eliza Elizabeth Wible—b. Jan, 18, 1812.
                     Adam [J.] Wible—b. June 29, 1814 (probably 1813).
                     Benjamin M[iller] Wible—b. Aug. 12, 1814.
                     John Vancleave Wible—b. Mar. 27, 1816.
                     Isaiah [B.] Wible—b. Dec. 30, 1817.
                     Hugh Conway Wible—b. Mar. 20, 1821.
                  
               
                
            Samuel Wible (youngest son of Adam and Hannah Harris Wible) was born in 
                  Nelson County, Kentucky
               , on June 14, 1792. He married Polly Rigney on May 15, 1815. Polly was
                    born in 
                  Surrey County, North Carolina
                on December 19, 1796.  She was the daughter of William Rigney (b. August 27, 1768) and Amariah
                    (Potter) Rigney (b. Nov, 18, 1772). William Rigney and Amariah Potter were married on September 22,
                    1791. Samuel Wible died on July —, 1888. He entered land in 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana in 1818.
            
                    
                  Children of Samuel and Polly (Rigney) Wible: 
                     John Mayhugh Wible—b. Aug. 27, 1816; killed by Morgan's raiders at 
                                    Salem
                                , Indiana, Jul. 10, 1863.
                     Hannah Wible—b. May 23, 1819; d. Jan. 13, 1852.
                     William Eigney Wible—b. Jan. 26, 1821; d. Sept. 21, 1897.
                     Mary Dow Wible—b. Feb. 23, 1823; d. Aug. 15, 1907; m. James Harvey Hale.
                     Adam Wible—b. Jan. 17, 1825.
                     Samuel Harris Wible—b. Dec. 8, 1828; d. Jan. 2, 1843.
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Tombstone Inscriptions
            PERSONS BURIED IN MT. SALEM CEMETERY1
            
            
                    
                  James Mitchell—Oct. 14, 1767—June 9, 1846.
                  Nancy Mitchell—June 25, 1771—Oct. 10, 1844.
                  Mary E., daughter of Joseph and E. F. Mitchell—July 31, 1830—Aug.
                            24, 1838.
                  Richard Perry—died Sept. 30, 1870, aged 48 year 6 months 15 days.
                  Barbary, wife of Richard Perry—born Jan. 2, 1824, married March 17, 1842, died
                            June 18, 1847.
                  Rachel Buck, wife of J. Buck—died Oct. 5, 1866, aged 66 years.
                  David Perry—April 4, 1790—May 20, 1854, aged 64 years.
                  Lorinda, wife of David Perry—born about 1800, died April 15, 1840.
                  Moses H., son of Jacob and Sophia Trisler—Jan. 15, 1841—Aug. 25,
                            1841.
                  Joseph M. Buck—Oct. 11, 1852—Aug. 17, 1853.
                  Mary A. Bennett, wife of J. Bennett—March 15, 1818—Dec. 26, 1842.
                  Basil Hill—died Nov. 28, 1866, aged 64 years, 5 month, 3 days.
                  Isaac Hill, son of Basil and Charity Hill—Jan. 9, 1825—Sept. 26,
                            1851.
                  Sophia Hill—Jan. 19, 1814—Oct. 14, 1854.
                  Thomas Hill—March 6, 1777—May 5, 1850.
                  Millek Hill—Jan. 28, 1778—Oct. 14, 1854.
                  Florence, daughter of J. and Susan Woodward—185–857.
                  Joseph H., son of J. and Martha Dillman—Aug. 16, 1851—May 16, 1857.
                  Martin I., son of J. and Martha Dillman—Nov. 1, 1852—July 25, 1853.
                  Mary E., daughter of Louis and Lydia Litz—July 14, 1869—Aug. 24,
                            1870.
                  Sarah Jane, daughter of J. and P. Fox—died Jan. 22, 1854, aged 6 years, 9
                            months, 5 days.
                  Vitelle, daughter of L. and L. A. Litz—May 14, 1880-June 1, 1891.
                  William H. Fox—Oct. 4, 1844—March 12, 1864.
                  James T., son of J. and M. Fox—died March 23, 1872, aged 12 years, 9 months, 7
                            days.
                  James Fox—Aug. 14, 1817—March 16, 1877, aged 59 years, 7 months, 2
                            days.
                  Benjamin F. Helms—Oct. 19, 1841—Nov. 5, 1875.
                  Benj. F., son of Wm. and N. Taylor—died Dec. 6, 1861, aged 16 years, 9 months,
                            9 days. Co. G 31st Regt. Ind. Vol.
                  William Taylor—July 15, 1789—Nov. 11, 1849, aged 60 years, 3 months,
                            26 days.
                  Nancy, wile of William Taylor—April 26, 1800—March 1, 1845, aged 44
                            years, 10 months, 5 days.
                  Son of Jesse and Mary Fox—May 7, 1884—June 13, 1888.
                  Daisie, daughter of Jesse and Mary Fox—June 17, 1892—July 1, 1892.
                  John A. Fox—May 4, 1819—March 4, 1885.
                  Mary J. Fox—Oct. 22, 1829—Dec. 23, 1906.
                  Salmon, son of F. and S. M. Howard—died Oct. 17, 1847, aged 6 years, 11 months,
                            25 days.
               
                    
                  
                     1 This cemetery is located on what is now State Highway No. 37, about
                            six miles south of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. The inscriptions were copied by Mrs. Charles R. Emery of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                  Rebecca, daughter of F. and S. M. Howard—died July 11, 1849, aged 2 months, 1
                            day.
                  Eli Howard—died Feb. 21, 1870, aged 37 years, 8 months, 23 days. Co. T. 59th
                            Regt. Ind. Vol.
                  Nelson Fox—died Sept. 2, 1932, aged 73 years, 11 months, 9 days.
                  John H. Hines—died Oct. 20, 1867, aged 27 years, 7 months, 18 days.
                  Jerusha Ann, daughter of S. B. and M. Perry—Jan. 12, 1854—Nov. 19,
                            1854.
                  Samuel B. Perry—died July 27, 1863, aged 37 years, 6 months, 8 days.
                  Mariah, daughter of G. and F. Finley—died May 6, 1869, aged 38 years, 6 days.
                  George Finley—Feb. 15, 1789—Nov. 3, 1851.
                  Fanny, wife of George Finley—Jan. 9, 1875, aged 79 years, 4 days.
                  George Iseminger—Sept. 23, 1766—Nov. 23, 1848.
                  Almira, wife of John Horton—died Dec. 25, 1848, aged 27 years, 20 days.
                  Elizabeth A., wife of C. G. Harrell—died April 25, 1857, aged 29 years, 5
                            months, 2 days.
                  Milton J., son of B. and A. Trisler—died March 8, 1858, aged 1 month, 29 days.
                  Daniel Trisler—died Feb. 2, 1867, aged 33 years, 11 days.
                  James W. Anderson, son of G. A. and K. Anderson—Nov. 19, 1805—March
                            15, 1841.
                  In memory of Katherine Anderson, consort of George Anderson,—March 22,
                            1782—Sept. 22, 1845, aged 63 years, 6 months.
                  William Ross—May 17, 1758—April 21, 1875, aged 116 years, 11 months,
                            4 days.
                  Elizabeth Ross—Oct. 21, 1791—Feb. 13, 1852.
                  Reuben Ross-Jan. 12, 1822—Sept. 23, 1840.
                  Sally Young—died Aug. 13, 1859, aged 44 years, 10 days.
                  Mary E. Young—died March 31, 1852, aged 1 month, 2 days.
                  Avis W. Ross—Feb. 12, 1887—May 27, 1892.
                  Eddie W. Ross—Sept. 12, 1871—Sept. 21, 1872.
                  Jennie E. Ross—Sept. 12, 1859—March 7, 1875.
                  Catherine Ross—Aug. 30, 1853—Sept. 30, 1876.
                  Walter W. Ross—May 12, 1883—Oct. 28, 1885.
                  Emma Ross—Sept. 28, 1861—Feb. 3, 1880.
                  Elizabeth, wife of W. W. Ross—Jan. 20, 1840—July 19, 1874.
               
                    (The following names and dates are from Bible records. They are known to be buried in Mt. Salem
                        Cemetery, but lie in unmarked graves.)
                    
                  William Wilson Ross—July 22, 1830—Dec. 30, 1912.
                  Eliza Ellen Ross, his wife—Aug. 8, 1847—Sept. 26, 1911.
                  Foris Sylvester—Feb. —, 1841—Oct. 27, 1921. Co. G, 31st
                            Regt. Ind. Vol.
                  Rachel Emma Sylvester, his wife—Aug. 5, 1855—July 13, 1928.
               
                    
                    REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIERS BURIED IN 
                            KNOX COUNTY
                        
                  2
               
                    
                  Charles Fitzgerald of Md.—died 1836; complete service; family data partly
                            known.
                  Augustine Jennings of 
                                Va.
                            —died 1786; service from family history; dying in 1786, no pension;
                            probably buried on his farm and plot abandoned; grave cannot be found; unmarried daughter
                            buried in a country graveyard; another daughter married a Withers.
                  James Johnson of 
                                Va.
                            —died 1817; service indicated in will of his son; wonderful family
                            record obtained from inscriptions in cemeteries and from wills; daughters married into
                            Henderson and McDonald families; not to be confused with Lieut. Col. James Johnson, Pa., who
                            also lived in 
                                Knox
                             Co., but moved to 
                                Illinois
                             and died there.
                  William McCord of 
                                Va.
                            —died 1846; Revolutionary War service and family data, of this
                            soldier proven; Starner line descended from this man.
                  Jesse McKinsey of Md.—died 1818; good service record of this soldier; after
                            death at 
                                Vincennes
                            , his widow moved to 
                                Ohio
                            , and received a pension there; grandchildren belonging to this line have family
                            names, Walter and Cocheral.
                  Jonathan Purcell of 
                                Va.
                            —died 1813; service and lineage proven; brother of William Purcell
                            (already proven in 
                                Knox
                             Co., Ind.); also brother of Edward Purcell, who died in 
                                Daviess
                             Co., Ind.
                  Howard Putman of Mass.—died 1834; complete data of this man; died in 
                                Knox
                             Co., but was buried in 
                                Illinois
                            ; descendants of the name of Putman, and two daughters known to have married
                            into Claypool and Sprague families.
                  George Snapp of 
                                Va.
                            —died 1845; authentic service; complete genealogy of the family to
                            the third and fourth generations; names associated with this line—Craig, in 
                                Ky.
                            , and Winemiller, Parmeter, Tewalt, of earlier generation.
                  Michael Thorn, Jr.—born in 
                                Va.
                            ; served in Pa.; died 1844; received pension; Michael, Sr. and Michael, Jr., and
                            five others of the name received grants of land for service in 
                                Knox
                             Co. militia, 1790; no family data for Michael, Jr.
                  Jaret Young of S.C.—died 1835; pensioner; service proven; left large family;
                            through daughters, lineage branches into families of Hollingsworth, Fox, Howard, Boyd, of
                            Sullivan Co., Ind., and into Sylvester families.
               
                
            
               
                  2 This list was prepared and sent in by Eva B. Davenport of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana (810 E. Sycamore Street). The Francis Vigo Chapter, D.A.R., of 
                            Vincennes
                        , has been seeking proof and records of soldiers buried in 
                            Knox County
                         who fought in the Revolutionary War for some years. The records of fifty soldiers
                        are now available to those who may be Interested. The work is as yet incomplete. The roster of
                        soldiers buried in Indiana is now being compiled by a committee of which Mrs. Roscoe C. O. Byrne
                        of 
                            Brookville
                        , Indiana, is the chairman. The new list here presented contains the names of
                        soldiers whose records have been authenticated.
            
         
      
      
         
      
   
