
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 106, Issue 4, pages 325-429. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:106+issue:4+year:2010&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                A Passionate Missionary to the West
                Charles Beecher in Fort Wayne, Indiana, 1844-1850
                PEGGY SEIGEL
                In the decades before the Civil War, the Reverend Lyman Beecher and his
                    accomplished children challenged the consciences and held the imaginations of
                    Americans as few others of their day. When Beecher left Boston in 1832 to become the first president of
                    Lane Theological Seminary near Cincinnati,
                    he was considered the preeminent New England preacher, "a general and a
                    statesman" in "the Kingdom of Christ" and a leader of
                    Presbyterian reform. Under his leadership, Lane was charged with training
                    Presbyterian ministers as missionaries "to hold the great West for
                    Protestantism." Beecher's sons and daughters followed in his venerable
                    footsteps as pastors, educators, and leaders in the struggle against slavery.
                    Sharing the reform passions of their period, the Beechers felt it was their
                    mission to 
                        The author sincerely thanks the staff at the Allen County Public
                            Library for their great help during long hours of research. Thanks to
                            John Beatty in particular for guiding her to the American Home
                            Missionary Society papers. She also thanks the editor and the anonymous
                            reader of the IMH for their suggestions. Related articles by the author
                            are "Who's Hiding in Our Basements? Abolitionists and the
                            Underground Railroad in Allen County, Indiana, Reconsidered," Old Fort News, 6 (No. 2, 2003) and "The Fort
                            Wayne Standard: A Reform Newspaper in the 1850s
                            Storm," Indiana Magazine of History, 97
                            (September 2001).
                    
                     establish a just kingdom on earth by
                    spreading the gospel of a loving God.1
                 Within the Beecher family, Charles (1815-1900), the ninth of eleven children,
                    has remained a shadow behind his more famous older siblings, Edward, Henry Ward,
                    and Harriet Beecher Stowe, and their luminous father. An examination of Charles
                    Beecher during his six years as pastor of Second Presbyterian Church in
                            Fort Wayne, Indiana, brings
                    recognition to this self-described "original" member of the Beecher
                    family. Looking at Charles's struggles in Fort
                        Wayne on behalf of New School Presbyterianism also
                    helps us understand the changes within the denomination on the western frontier.
                    Finally, Charles's emergence in the early 1850s as a national spokesman for
                    abolition can be understood as part of a continuum begun during his years in
                            Indiana.
                When Charles Beecher arrived in Fort Wayne
                    in May 1844 to take the pulpit of the newly organized Second Presbyterian
                    Church, he was an unlikely candidate for success. Twenty-nine years old, he had
                    only the previous year been licensed as a Presbyterian minister after a long
                    period of self-doubt and rejection of traditional Calvinism. Although every one
                    of Lyman Beecher's children diverged from their father's Calvinism to
                    some degree, Charles seems to have had the hardest time coming into the
                    Presbyterian fold. Following in his brothers' well-worn footsteps by
                    entering the ministry ran counter to his temperament. Studies of Charles during
                    the decade before he arrived in Fort Wayne
                    portray him as extremely self-absorbed and given to adolescent affectations that
                    embarrassed his family. While his moody personality no doubt reflected an
                    extreme case of angst, Charles seems to have been ill-equipped to cope with the
                        world.2
                Growing up in the Beecher family under Lyman's strong influence, Charles
                    developed a love of music and learning that was intensified by 
                        1Robert Meredith, The Politics of the
                                Universe: Edward Beecher, Abolition, & Orthodoxy
                                    (Nashville,
                                    Tenn., 1963), 147; Edward
                            Beecher, quoted in Charles Beecher, ed., Autobiography,
                                Correspondence etc. of Lyman Beecher D.D., 2 vols.
                                    (New York, 1865), 2:582;
                            Charles Edward Stowe and Lyman Beecher Stowe, Harriet
                                Beecher Stowe: The Story of Her Life (Boston, 1911), 66.
                        2Marie Caskey, Chariot of Fire:
                                Religion and the Beecher Family (New
                                    Haven, Conn.,
                            1978), 140- 166; Samuel A. Schreiner, Jr., The Passionate
                                Beechers: A Family Saga of Sanctity and Scandal That Changed
                                America (Hoboken,
                                    N. J., 2003), 223; Jane
                            Shaffer Elsmere, Henry Ward Beecher, The Indiana Years,
                                1837-1847 (Indianapolis, 1973),
                            205.
                    
                    
                    
                        Charles Beecher, c. 1870. Known for his writings on theology and the
                            Bible and for his public opposition to slavery, Beecher established his
                            first pastorate in Fort Wayne,
                                    Indiana in 1844.
                    his years at the best New England prep schools and Bowdoin College. His
                    passion for music was such that he declared he would earn his living from it—a
                    keen disappointment to his father, who assumed that all of his sons would follow
                    the deathbed wish of his beloved first wife, Roxana, that they enter the
                    ministry. Even more distressing to Lyman and the family was Charles's
                    rejection of fundamental Presbyterian theology. His interest in the popular
                    "science" of phrenology led him to doubt that human beings could
                    possess free will; his personal reading of Jonathan Edwards's theology
                    confirmed that belief. Charles further 
                    reasoned that the inevitable human condition—his own included—was that of
                    infidelity. In the words of biographer Marie Caskey, Charles now believed that
                    "[w]ithout free will, there could be no such thing as religious faith or
                        hope."3
                Despite his doubts, in 1834 Charles returned to the Beecher fold after his
                    graduation from college. Controversy had followed Lyman from
                            Boston, even though he had moved west to avoid
                    theological dispute in favor of saving the inhabitants of the new western
                    frontier. By the time Charles arrived, Lyman had already survived a trial for
                    heresy, arising from the growing New School/Old School split within
                        Presbyterianism.4 Lane Seminary had also lost fifty-one
                    students the previous school year, when the board of trustees had forbidden them
                    to express support for abolitionism. Despite Lyman's attempts to moderate
                    between factions, a large group of students had angrily withdrawn from the
                        seminary.5
                Other members of the Beecher family, too, faced controversy over their
                    antislavery beliefs. Charles's scholarly oldest brother Edward, president
                    of Illinois College in Jacksonville, published a
                    series of sermons outlining a revisionist theology aimed at elevating the
                    "standard of personal holiness throughout the universal church."
                    Edward had closely aligned himself with fellow minister Elijah Lovejoy and his
                    struggle to continue his abolitionist newspaper in Alton, Illinois. After
                    Lovejoy was assassinated in 1837, Edward became a national leader in the cause
                    for immediate abolition. In Cincinnati, where violent mob
                    attacks twice destroyed the presses of the abolitionist newspaper The Philanthropist, Henry Ward and Harriet, both then living in
                            Ohio, felt compelled to take 
                        3Meredith, Politics of the
                                Universe, 213; Lyman Beecher Stowe, Saints,
                                Sinners and Beechers (Indianapolis, 1934), 336; Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 143.
                        4Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 34-67,
                            is helpful on Lyman Beecher's theology. The Old School/New School
                            division within Presbyterianism involved a number of factors. Doctrinal
                            disputes raged over narrowly differing views of "sin, human
                            ability, and salvation." Old School leaders wanted the Presbyterian
                            Church to have complete control over its missionaries; the New School
                            cooperated with other denominations, particularly through the American
                            Home Missionary Society. New School adherents were more likely to be
                            active in reform movements, especially for the abolition of slavery. For
                            a summary of the issues and how the split played out in
                                    Indiana, see L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths: A History of Indiana's Churches and Religious
                                Groups (Bloomington,
                                    Ind., 1995), 125-27. For a deeper
                            discussion of the theological differences, see George M. Marsden, The Evangelical Mind and the New School Presbyterian
                                Experience: A Case Study of Thought and Theology in
                                Nineteenth-Century America (New
                                Haven, Conn.,
                            1970), 31-58.
                        5Sources vary over the number of students who
                            withdrew from Lane; Marsden, The Evangelical Mind, p.
                            94, puts it at fifty-one. On abolitionist sentiment at the school, and
                            the split led by Theodore Weld, see Robert H. Abzug, Passionate Liberator: Theodore Dwight Weld and the Dilemma of
                                Reform (New
                                    York, 1980), 74-122.
                    
                     action. Henry volunteered for a home
                    militia charged with protecting the city from further violence. He and Harriet
                    both wrote antislavery articles condemning the violence and the attacks on free
                        speech.6
                Both Henry and Charles attended classes at Lane Seminary. Henry assiduously
                    prepared for the ministry, was ordained, and began to serve a small congregation
                    in Lawrenceburgh, Indiana. In
                    contrast, Charles withdrew from political conflicts and intellectual debates
                    into a solitary melancholy. Having proposed marriage to Sarah Coffin while in
                    college, Charles now broke off the relationship, believing himself to be in love
                    with another girl. He became his own brooding romantic fictional character,
                    hopelessly yearning for a beautiful young maiden. In 1838, at the age of 23, he
                    cut himself off from his family to seek adventure as a musician in
                            New Orleans. Lyman was distraught. Later in
                    life, Charles recalled how his father said goodbye: "'My son,' he
                    said, with quivering lip, 'eternity is long!' and, with a glance of
                    anguish and a grasp of the hand, he turned away." The absent Charles became
                    the focus of Sunday morning family prayers.7
                During the next two years, Charles's rebellion was tempered by his exposure
                    to slavery, as well as by personal illness and prolonged poverty. Forced to take
                    a job as a clerk at a wholesale house, he was sickened by what he saw of slavery
                    when he visited cotton plantations to collect debts from planters. Prostrated by
                    yellow fever and again dependent on his father for financial survival, Charles
                    realized that he needed to change the direction of his life. He reestablished
                    his relationship with Sarah, and they married in 1840. While Charles had
                    languished in New
                        Orleans, Henry Ward had advanced his ministerial
                    career, leaving his small-town parish for Second Presbyterian Church in
                            Indianapolis. When Henry offered Charles a
                    position as organist and choir director at the rapidly growing church, Charles
                    eagerly accepted. The young couple, with their first-born son, became part of
                    the extended family of Henry Ward and Eunice Beecher.8
                
                    6Joan D. Hedrick, Harriet Beecher Stowe:
                            A Life (New
                            York, 1994), 106-108. Edward Beecher's Narrative of the riots at Alton: in connection with the death
                            of Rev. Elijah P Lovejoy (Alton,
                                Ill., 1838) was nationally circulated.
                    7Meredith, Politics of the Universe,
                        92, 96, 105-106; Caskey, Chariot of Fire, chap. 6;
                        Beecher, ed., Autobiography...of Lyman Beecher,
                        464.
                    8The most detailed description of Charles's life
                        in New Orleans is Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 151-61.
                
                
                For the next few years, Charles turned Second Presbyterian Church into a center
                    for classical and religious music. His Bible studies classes and occasional
                    sermons were popular and well attended. Aside from any recognition he earned,
                    however, he had little income and was again forced to depend on his
                    father's limited resources.
                Charles's life made an abrupt turn in March 1843 when he underwent a
                    transformative experience that his family understood as a coming to God and
                    acceptance of Christ. The last of Lyman and Roxana's sons to undergo this
                    apparent conversion, Charles was now considered "safe" in his
                    religious beliefs and ready to enter the ministry. Henry lost no time in
                    arranging for Charles to be brought before an examining board of the
                    Indianapolis Presbytery in August 1843. According to records, Charles was
                    granted a license to preach anywhere within the bounds of the Presbyterian
                    Church. When Henry learned of an opening in Fort Wayne's First Presbyterian
                    Church, he saw an opportunity for Charles to have a church of his own and, for
                    the first time, a regular, if meager, income with which to support his
                        family.9
                Henry was eager to help Charles for personal reasons as well. Located on the
                            Wabash and Erie Canal, Fort
                        Wayne was Northeast Indiana's main
                    trading center. Its population of 3,000 was growing daily with new settlers
                    arriving from the East and from Germany. First Presbyterian
                    Church was the denomination's most important church in the area; securing
                    control of its pulpit would add to Henry's growing reputation for church
                    leadership. Henry also embraced the challenge as one more chapter in the
                    continuing New School-Old School war. Nowhere was the competition for control
                    more bitter than among the emerging Presbyterian congregations in
                            Indiana.10
                 Under its former minister, Rev. Alexander T. Rankin, First Presbyterian Church
                    had affiliated with the Old School. Rankin's allegiance was divided,
                    however, for while he opposed separation from the denomination, he supported his
                    brother and mentor, Rev. John Rankin of Ripley,
                            Ohio, an outspoken leader in New School reform and
                    the anti-slavery movement. Among the 139 members of Fort
                        Wayne's 
                        9Within the family, Henry Ward assumed most of the
                            responsibility for guiding Charles into the ministry. Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 162; Elsmere, Henry Ward
                                Beecher, 203-220.
                        10George R. Mather, Frontier Faith:
                                The Story of the Pioneer Congregations of Fort Wayne, Indiana,
                                1820-1860 (Fort Wayne,
                                    Ind., 1992), 163-64. Rudolph details the
                            thirty-year conflict in Indiana and notes that, by 1850, the number of
                            Old School and New School ministers in the state was equal. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths, 125-27.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHARLES BEECHER IN FORT WAYNE Henry Ward Beecher, 1853, in an engraving
                            by J. C. McRae, from a painting by T. Hicks. Of all the members of the
                            Beecher family, Henry Ward did the most to help his brother Charles find
                            a calling to the ministry and a congregation to serve.
                        Courtesy Photographs and Prints Division, Library of Congress
                     congregation, a significant number were known to favor the more
                    liberal New School theology.11
                Henry's effort to take over the pulpit of First Presbyterian was blocked
                    before he was able to reach Fort Wayne. Old School supporters, learning of his
                    intentions, had hastily arranged for the scholarly Old 
                        11Larry Gene Wiley, "The Reverend John
                            Rankin: Early Ohio Antislavery Leader" (Ph.D. diss., University of
                            Iowa, 1976), 127; Elsmere, Henry Ward Beecher,
                            206.
                    
                     School pastor and Hanover College professor
                    Dr. William C. Anderson to preach on the Sunday morning before Beecher's
                    arrival. Intent nevertheless on establishing a New School congregation for
                    Charles, Henry wooed prospective churchgoers for two weeks in April, preaching
                    in the musty Allen County Courthouse and visiting in homes. Henry also had the
                    support of prominent banker Hugh McCulloch. McCulloch had often visited
                    Henry's church when he traveled to Indianapolis, and the two men had become friends.
                    The banker offered Charles and his family a place to stay in his spacious home.
                    By the time Charles arrived in early May, Henry had drawn six members away from
                    the First Presbyterian congregation. Among these charter members was Susan Man
                    McCulloch, Hugh's wife, who as a schoolgirl had attended Catherine
                    Beecher's female academy in Hartford,
                            Connecticut. Six others joined, altogether a small
                    but sufficient number. Plans were put into place to secure partial funding from
                    the American Home Missionary Society (AHMS), the New
                        York-based New School organization that funded
                    missionaries in the West.12
                Two days after Charles arrived, Henry returned to Indianapolis, and Charles found himself
                    "pitched" into what he came to consider "the hardest [religious]
                    field in all Indiana." Only a few people entered into full
                    membership, but attendance at Sunday evening meetings often reached 150. People
                    came to services in the courthouse expecting debates with First
                    Presbyterian's pastor and leaders. Charles later recalled being told that
                    he needed to "put in [his] best licks" and "knock the socks off
                    those Old School folks!" Beecher instead told people that he "had
                    nothing particular to say for New School" because he "always supposed
                    his father knew all about that." When asked why he had come to
                            Fort Wayne, he replied that he did not know,
                    but that if "the Lord wished him to stay he would show."13
                
                    12Mather, Frontier Faith, 164-65;
                        Elsmere, Henry Ward Beecher, 206-208; Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a Century: Sketches and Comments
                                (New York, 1888), 144. According to Susan
                        McCulloch, she and her husband kept "a prophets chamber for clergymen
                        of all denominations." Wilhelmina and Clifford Richards, eds.,
                        "The Recollections of Susan Man McCulloch," Old Fort
                            News, 44 (No. 3, 1981), 13.
                    13Charles Beecher to Amelia Ogden, May 20, 1845,
                        folder 27, reel 1, microfilm collection M-45, Beecher-Stowe Family Papers,
                        Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America,
                        Harvard University. Ogden had cared for Charles following Roxana
                        Beecher's death. Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 17.
                        Charles's wit is evident in the journal he kept when he accompanied
                        Harriet on her author's tour of Europe; see Joseph S. Van Why and Earl
                        French, eds., Harriet Beecher Stowe in Europe: The Journal of
                            Charles Beecher (Hartford,
                                Conn., 1986).
                
                
                
                    Hugh McCulloch, c. 1860. An influential banker in 1840s
                                Fort Wayne, McCulloch,
                        together with his wife Susan Man McCulloch, was an early supporter of
                        Beecher and his newly formed Second Presbyterian Church.
                    Courtesy Brady-Handy Photograph Collection, Photographs and Prints Division,
                        Library of Congress
                
                As Charles began to visit people about town, he met many who were not aligned
                    with organized churches. They were intellectually curious, some leaning toward
                    Universalism, others Unitarians like Hugh McCulloch, "skeptical, utterly
                    beyond the reach of any existing organization." Although they did not agree
                    with what he preached, they opposed the persecution of his little church.
                    Charles later wrote that  they were willing
                    "to hear the Gospel," and "before they knew it, the Lord had a
                    cord around their hearts and they became warm personal friends." Committing
                    themselves to the growth of the congregation, the new supporters pledged $300,
                    no small sum for the day.14
                In the following weeks, Old School leaders, including a visiting pastor from
                            Indianapolis, continued to label
                    Charles's small congregation as a group of Unitarians and heretics and
                    attempted to persuade newcomers that First Presbyterian Church was the real New
                    School church. Once again, Charles's strategy was disarming. He encouraged
                    members and friends in his congregation to attend meetings that First
                    Presbyterian organized. Charles invited their visiting pastor to preach at his
                    service, and in turn he attended prayer meetings at First Presbyterian, where he
                    "talked and sang and prayed and wept."15
                The new pastor's early months in Fort Wayne
                    tested his physical and emotional fortitude. In his first quarterly report to
                    the AHMS home office in September 1844, Charles candidly reported the
                    difficulties he faced. He was still recovering from an illness that had kept him
                    confined all winter. His wife's health was poor as well, preventing her
                    from visiting new acquaintances. Membership in his church had risen to nineteen,
                    but only a very small number were males. Stressing the importance of Fort Wayne
                    to both factions of Presbyterianism, Charles wrote that the Old School had sent
                    a second pastor to the area to build support; he hoped that the AHMS as well
                    would send more missionaries. The Old School's charges of heresy against
                    his church continued to be "uncompromising," even if disguised in
                    "civil" and "polished" language.16
                Charles felt that his greatest difficulty, however, was his personal deficiency
                    in faith-"my own evil heart & want of genuine conformity to the spirit
                    & example of Jesus." Haunted by old feelings of inadequacy, he confided
                    to the director of the AHMS that he had "the misfortune" of being
                    "rather original" which led to charges of being "any thing but
                        
                        14Charles Beecher to Amelia Ogden, May 20, 1845,
                            folder 27, reel 1, Beecher-Stowe Family Papers.
                        15Ibid.
                        16Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, September 16,
                            1844, reel 56, Series 1: Incoming Correspondence, American Home
                            Missionary Society Papers 1816-1894 microfilm collection (hereafter AHMS
                            Papers). Sarah Beecher experienced complications following the birth of
                            their first child in New
                                Orleans in 1841, and her poor health was a
                            continuing concern. Elsmere, Henry Ward Beecher,
                            204.
                    
                     sound in the faith." Adversity
                    nevertheless helped Charles recognize his commitment to his mission: "Now
                    if I thought that New School were not worth something—If I thought it were not
                    somehow dear to God, I would not stand a day longer."17
                On a reassuring note, Charles reported that he had been well received when he
                    preached in the country and that he knew of four locations where New School
                    churches could be organized. Furthermore, he had obtained music books; the
                    ladies' sewing society was raising funds for oil lamps needed for evening
                    services; and Henry's church in Indianapolis had sent him a violin. His spirits
                    were particularly lifted because there was "a good prospect of a large
                    singing school" later in the fall.18
                Family letters tell a similar story of Charles's hardships. Charles confided
                    to his father that he felt pulled down by a "jaded, overwearied sense of
                    inability" and was again plagued by religious doubt. Recalling his own
                    periods of despondency, Lyman responded with a long letter detailing rules he
                    tried to follow that kept him in balance and prevented doctrinal conflict. Lyman
                    cautioned Charles that only after great consideration should he "push
                    noiselessly, and with unprovoking, meek modesty, a new truth amid the
                    prescriptive rights of error." Furthermore, Lyman advised to "[n]ever
                    attack the opposite opinion, or amplify its absurdity or mischief, or stigmatize
                    it by hard names." In the early fall, Henry learned that attacks by Old
                    School opponents were so serious that Charles might lose his church and be
                    permanently damaged by accusations of Unitarian sympathies. In a letter hastily
                    written to their father on September 13, 1844, Henry stressed "that
                    everything depends upon his [Charles] succeeding in this enterprise."
                    Needing to stay in Indianapolis with Eunice,
                    who was due to give birth, Henry urged Lyman to hurry to Fort Wayne to bolster Charles's
                        position.19
                Lyman refrained from rushing to Fort Wayne,
                    but in the weeks preceding Charles's November ordination, both he and Henry
                    continued to send letters filled with advice. Lyman's explication of
                    Presbyterian 
                        17Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, September 16,
                            1844, reel 56, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                        18Ibid.
                        19Beecher, ed., Autobiography... of
                                Lyman Beecher, 469, 472-73; Elsmere, Henry Ward
                                Beecher, 209-210; Henry Ward Beecher to Lyman Beecher,
                            September 13, 1844, folder 41, reel 1, Beecher-Stowe Family
                            Papers.
                    
                     theology reassured Charles that the
                    Presbyterian Confession was open to more than one interpretation. Above all, he
                    wrote, if Charles would "provide no mark for the enemy to fire at, all,
                    with diligence and spirituality, will go well." Knowing Charles's
                    penchant for originality, Henry advised his brother to avoid conflict and
                    misunderstanding by keeping his sermons "practical" and
                        "popular."20
                A week prior to Charles's examination for ordination, Lyman Beecher rode up
                    to Hugh McCulloch's home in Fort Wayne
                    late on Saturday afternoon, covered with mud but in high spirits following a day
                    and a half of continuous travel. From his home in Walnut Hills outside of
                            Cincinnati he had traveled north by canal to
                    St. Mary's, Ohio. Then, following a brief rest, he had set off
                    around 10:00 p.m. to ride the remaining sixty-two miles to
                            Fort Wayne through the often impassable area
                    known as the Black Swamp. While he was accompanied part way by a guide, the
                    elderly man's stamina was clearly reason for celebration. Revived by a cold
                    bath, a whiskey rubdown, and a hearty supper, Lyman rose the next morning with
                    renewed energy to deliver sermons twice that day. On each successive evening he
                    led worship services and discussions until Henry's arrival at the end of
                    the week. Clearly, Lyman relished the challenge of establishing Charles in a New
                    School stronghold in Fort Wayne. Hugh McCulloch,
                    for one, was deeply impressed by the elder Beecher's personal charm,
                    confirming the reputation the church statesman had among his students. He
                    "proved to be one of the most social and agreeable of men," McCulloch
                    wrote. "[H]e abounded in sympathy, in geniality, in good-will for
                        everybody."21
                Charles's ordination by the recently established New School Presbytery of
                            Fort Wayne on November 8 was marked by
                    solemnity and decorum. His responses to questions regarding doctrinal beliefs
                    and his trial sermon on faith no doubt reflected the family advice he had
                    received over the previous months. In the evening candlelight ceremony,
                    following a sermon by Henry, Dr. Beecher concluded the service by giving the
                    ministerial charge. Charles was fulfilling his late mother's dying wish
                    that all her sons were to be ministers, Lyman remarked. His son's 
                        20Beecher, ed., Autobiography... of
                                Lyman Beecher, 476-77.
                        21Fort Wayne Times & Peoples
                                Press, April 19, 1845; Beecher, ed., Autobiography... of Lyman Beecher, 477. Susan McCulloch
                            remembered that Lyman Beecher "rode my favorite horse all the way
                            from Piqua." "Recollections of Susan Man McCulloch,"
                            13.
                    
                    
                    
                        Lyman Beecher. Charles's father had been an important influence on
                            his decision to become a minister. The elder Beecher continued to give
                            advice and support during his son's pastorate in
                                    Fort Wayne.
                        Charles Beecher, ed., Autobiography, Correspondence etc. of
                                Lyman Beecher D.D. (1865)
                    
                     future role "as an ambassador of Jesus
                    Christ" would be "to negotiate peace between God and men—the mightiest
                    power God delegates to mortals." Revealing his belief that they were
                    experiencing "a period of high conflict and glorious history," Lyman
                    issued a call for spiritual rebirth: "Take heed of the heart...The power of
                    the heart set on fire by love is the greatest created power in the
                    universe...LOVE can, by God's appointment, carry the truth quick and
                    powerful through the soul, and will, in a few generations, subdue and
                    tranquillize the world." Finally, he reminded Charles of the great cause
                    before them: "To plant Christianity in the West is as grand an undertaking
                    as to plant it in the Roman empire, with unspeakable greater permanence and
                    power." Commenting upon Lyman's remarks, Susan McCulloch wrote that
                    "there was not a dry eye in the house."22
                Henry and Lyman remained in Fort Wayne for the next three
                    weeks, holding religious services and drumming up support for Charles's
                    church. Nine members were added to the congregation. Most promising was the
                    financial commitment from business leaders and new friends to a building fund so
                    that the church could move out of the stifling room at the courthouse and into a
                    building of its own by the next summer. At the end of November, supporters had
                    pledged a total of $1500. A suitable lot "two blocks from the public
                    square" on Berry Street, "[t]he prettiest spot in town," was
                    secured. According to Susan McCulloch, major donors included her husband; Royal
                    Taylor, a prosperous wholesale merchant who had married her good friend Alida
                    Hubbell; Dr. Charles Sturgis, a member of First Presbyterian Church; Capt. Asa
                    Fairfield and William Rockhill, also directors of the State Bank; and Alexander
                    Ewing, a major land developer.23
                Charles's December quarterly report to the AHMA was a marked contrast to the
                    one sent a few months earlier. He was hard pressed to 
                        22Beecher, ed., Autobiography... of
                                Lyman Beecher, 477-79; Elsmere, Henry Ward
                                Beecher, 215-16; Susan Man McCulloch to Mary I. Man,
                                    Plattsburgh,
                                    New York, November 20, 1844, in Clifford
                            H. Richards, ed., The Fort Wayne Letters of Susan Man
                                McCulloch 1836-1865 (n.p., 1981). At its session on October 12,
                            1844, the Synod of Indiana (New School) established Fort Wayne
                            Presbytery by dividing Logansport Presbytery. The Fort Wayne Presbytery
                            now consisted of 10 counties in northeastern Indiana with five ministers, one licentiate,
                            and nine churches. George William Allison, Forest, Fort,
                                and Faith: Historical Sketches of the Presbytery of Fort Wayne,
                                organized January 2, 1845 (Fort
                                Wayne, Ind.,
                            1945), 12.
                        23Susan Man McCulloch to Maria Halsey,
                                    Plattsburgh,
                                    New York, January 13, 1845, and Susan Man
                            McCulloch to Mary I. Man, November 20, 1844, both in Richards, ed., Fort Wayne Letters of Susan Man McCulloch.
                    
                     identify the Old School factions as a
                    significant difficulty. While he still struggled to feel a "pure love like
                    that of Christ," he reported that "[p]ublic opinion is now settled
                    that the enterprise will Succeed & hence audiences increase." Church
                    activities now included a Sabbath school for young people, Sunday afternoon and
                    evening services in the courthouse, the hoped-for singing school (with 57
                    attendees), and a monthly concert series. He was meeting as well with a group of
                    people five miles west of town, where a young man of his church led a Sabbath
                    school. Indicating that he was not able to stay away entirely from controversy,
                    Charles confided that during the fall presidential elections he had made it
                    known he would not vote, even though members of his congregation, with one
                    exception, were staunch Whigs. "It is well however for them to learn at the
                    start that their pastors vote is his own, not theirs," he wrote. What
                    Charles left unstated was his opposition to Henry Clay as the Whig candidate for
                        president.24
                Although his success had owed much to his inimitable family, during his first
                    seven months in Fort Wayne Charles Beecher had
                    clearly demonstrated his own personal gifts. In the next five and a half years,
                    he drew people from across denominational and socioeconomic lines to a wide
                    range of religious and civic programs. One could argue that his successes were
                    due to the sheer exuberance of his personality and his unflagging energy,
                    qualities generally attributed to all of the Beechers. Unquestionably, Charles
                    also impressed people with his remarkable intellect and his gifts as a preacher
                    and musician. As one would expect from a Beecher, Charles also strove to be a
                    moral compass for the Fort
                        Wayne community. At personal risk, he challenged
                    church practices and politics of his day.
                In the spring of 1845, Charles and his family were able to settle in their own
                    house, helped by the generosity of church members and friends. In "A
                    Card" to the local newspaper, he thanked all who had recently gathered at
                    his residence "doubly expressing their regard by their presence and
                    presents." Hoping that they would return, he declared "[t]he latch
                    string always on the outside."25
                
                    24Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, December 16, 1844,
                        reel 56, series 1, AHMS Papers. The congregation west of town was described
                        as on the Yellow River Road.
                    25Fort Wayne Times & People's
                            Press, March 29, 1845. The home was located on lot number two,
                        block twenty-six of Ewing's division (on present-day Wayne Street, land
                        now occupied by the First Presbyterian Church parking lot). Allen County Indiana Land & Property Records, 1829-1901, Book
                        N, p. 484, Book P, p. 712.
                
                
                While mutual affection helps explain the continued growth of the congregation,
                    Charles obviously felt he had found his calling. He organized concerts, singing
                    classes, Bible study and prayer meetings, as well as classes for children, all
                    in addition to his regular preaching. Members found him "witty, being
                    similar to his brother, Henry Ward, in this respect" and "a splendid
                    musician" who led hymn singing on his violin. Writing to her mother in
                            New
                            York, Susan McCulloch remarked that
                    "Nobody goes to sleep under his preaching." Attendance at Sunday
                    services grew to be as high as 200; singing classes swelled to 130. In the
                    church's first years, several community leaders served as trustees,
                    including Royal Taylor, Benjamin W Oakley, and Hugh McCulloch.26
                Charles rejoiced that people who attended his services had "more intellect
                    than any other or all others here." He was particularly pleased by a prayer
                    meeting led by congregation members and an evening discussion group that
                    encouraged even the most shy to talk about subjects ranging from temperance to
                    prayer to church business. As his church grew, he thought that members showed
                    "more seriousness ... & less skepticism." As Charles had hoped,
                    his congregation served as an example to other churches, if not yet of "a
                    progressive state of holiness" then at least of a new religious
                        consciousness.27
                Charles's ministry continued to reach into surrounding rural areas. Before
                    the new building was completed in February 1846, he reported to the AHMS that he
                    had scheduled regular Sunday morning meetings alternately in five different
                    areas near Fort Wayne, riding back to town for the afternoon and evening
                    services at the courthouse. The congregation five miles west on the Yellow River
                    Road toward Columbia City included about fifty persons. At another location,
                    typical of new settlements in northeast Indiana, followers
                    of five different denominations met together and, according to Charles,
                    "agreed to lay aside their differences & unite upon a simple
                    congregational plan." Several young men who were members of the church
                    walked as far as fifteen to twenty miles to many of these locations to conduct
                    Sabbath schools. Charles felt that Columbia, the
                    seat of Whitley
                            County and "a drinking wicked place"
                        
                        26Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, March 13,
                            1845, February 4, 1850, reels 56, 59, series 1, AHMS Papers. A former
                            member of Beecher's choir is quoted in Joseph Gaston, Portland, Oregon, Its History and Builders ... (Chicago,
                            1911), 727; see also Susan Man McCulloch to Maria Halsey, February 26,
                            1846, in Richards, ed., Fort Wayne Letters of Susan Man
                                McCulloch.
                        27Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, October 27,
                            1845, April 5, 1847, February 15, 1848, reels 56, 57, 58, series 1, AHMS
                            Papers.
                    
                     that was growing up "without
                    Gospel," especially needed a missionary. After Second Presbyterian had its
                    own building, Charles continued to ride out in the early mornings to preach in
                    two rural neighborhoods. A number of country people also joined his
                            Fort Wayne congregation.28
                Charles's ministry extended beyond New School Presbyterian borders through
                    various reform associations. In the spring of 1845, for example, he formed a
                    committee with other pastors and lay leaders to "seek out indigent persons
                    and persons in distress, in this vicinity and afford them relief." In
                    October, he led community religious leaders in forming a society to bring about
                    the "moral and social improvement" of laborers and boatmen who had
                    swarmed into the area due to the rapid growth of the Wabash and Erie Canal. Charles was
                    one of three ministers who agreed to contact the American Bethel Society to
                    request that a missionary be sent to the area the next spring. Soon afterward,
                    collections were taken to purchase Bibles to be distributed to "the
                    destitute of the counties of Allen and Adams"—for religious reasons,
                    certainly, but also to promote literacy among people with few opportunities for
                    schooling. In addition, Charles frequently wrote to the AHMS on behalf of Rev.
                    John Bayer, a missionary among German immigrants in Allen
                    and Adams Counties.29
                In this same period, Charles was also taking a public stand in support of New
                    School Presbyterianism. In October 1845, less than a year after his ordination,
                    he joined his brother Henry and twenty-seven other ministers and elders to form
                    the Constitutional Presbyterian Church of Indiana. In one of the first of many
                    efforts by New School ministers to push the Presbyterian General Assembly (New
                    School) to take a stronger position against slavery, they called for a meeting
                    prior to the May Triennial Assembly in Philadelphia to try "to devise a remedy for
                    the evil." Charles's association with this initiative did not prompt a
                    response from more conservative ministers within the Fort Wayne (New School)
                    Presbytery, but what did become an issue of debate among his 
                        28Other meeting places were three miles northwest
                            on the Goshen Road, north on the St. Joseph
                                River, and along the Maumee River. Charles Beecher to
                            Milton Badger, April 22, August 1, October 27, 1845, July 19, 1847,
                            reels 56, 57, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                        29Fort Wayne Times & Peoples
                                Press, April 12, October 11, November 29, 1845. The American
                            Bethel Society was founded in New
                                York in 1837 to provide religious and moral
                            guidance to canal workers. See Roger E. Carp, "The Limits of
                            Reform: Labor and Discipline on the Erie Canal," Journal of the Early Republic, 10 (Summer 1990),
                            214-15.
                    
                     fellow ministers was a Bible discussion
                    class, open to the public, that Charles offered at the courthouse.30
                 The four-part lecture series entitled the "Genuineness, Authenticity, and
                    Entire Inspiration of the Sacred Scriptures" began with a study of the
                    first five books of the Bible. In a quarterly report to the AHMS, Charles
                    described a generally positive response from large audiences he categorized as
                    skeptics, infidels, Jews, Universalists and "Nothingarians," eager to
                    hear evidence "that the Bible was Gods word." He encouraged open
                    discussions, emphasized understanding biblical texts apart from any religious
                    creed, and promoted study and prayer. He declared his lectures a welcome
                    alternative to Alexander Rankin's "stiff dose of Calvinistic Logic as
                    dry as brick-dust & hard as the nether mile-stone." Out of knowledge of
                    the Bible, Charles believed, would come faith.31
                The dedication of the new Second Presbyterian Church building on February 22,
                    1846, was a celebration of accomplishment. In little over one year, the young
                    congregation had raised some $2500 and built an attractive brick edifice that
                    was completely furnished and paid for. Charles alone had collected $500 from
                    other New School congregations. Aside from the celebration, however, the
                    dedication ceremony was also an opportunity for Charles to challenge his
                    opponents and test the degree of support his fledgling congregation was willing
                    to give him.32
                Morning and afternoon, before a crowded sanctuary, Charles preached in support of
                    greater religious freedom, arguing that it was unrealistic to expect "to
                    create absolute unity of belief." He told the assembled listeners: Even on what we are pleased to term fundamental truths,
                        there must exist different modes of seeing; different grades of believing;
                        different forms of expressing; and the only unity that ever will be attained
                        before the Resurrection of the Just, on earth, will be a unity of thinking
                        differently, in love.
                    
                        30The Anti-Slavery Bugle,
                            February 20, 1846. Two other ministers of the Fort Wayne Presbytery,
                            Thomas Anderson of Huntington and Alexander Lemon of Wabash, were also
                            listed, along with Luther and Samuel Donnell, known leaders of the
                            Underground Railroad from Decatur
                                County. Beginning in 1846, New School General
                            Assemblies passed resolutions condemning slavery. Nationwide, the New
                            School became united against slavery in 1857, when the Presbytery of
                            Lexington (Virginia) withdrew. See
                            Marsden, The Evangelical Mind, 188.
                        31Fort Wayne Times & Peoples
                                Press, October 11, November 29, 1845; Charles Beecher to Milton
                            Badger, February 5, 1846, reel 57, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                        32Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, March 16,
                            1846, reel 57, series 1, AHMS Papers
                    .  Ministers, he urged, must be freed
                    from narrow paths of religious study which required them to follow a
                    denominational creed in addition to the Bible: "[L]iberty of opinion in our
                    Theological Seminaries is a mere form." No doubt speaking from his own
                    experience, he made the case that ministers who deviated from their
                    denominational creed were "whispered to be unsound, unsafe,
                        heretical." They risked losing their members, their reputations,
                    and their very livelihood. "There is something criminal in saying anything
                    new. It is shocking to utter words that have not the mould of age upon
                    them." More than ever, Charles said, he was firmly convinced that the Bible
                    was "the perfect and thorough furniture of the Christian minister."
                    Finding God's love in the Bible offered hope to a world that otherwise
                    seemed to be set on a course of destruction. This was his strategy for winning
                    the religious war for the West, for enabling mankind to avoid "that final
                    storm of divine indignation which shall sweep away the vain refuges of
                        lies.""33
                Susan McCulloch considered Charles's sermons "two of the best...I have
                    ever heard. If you were to hear him now you would hardly believe him the same
                    person he was when you were here," she wrote her mother. Indicating a
                    noticeable difference of opinion in the community, however, she added, "If
                    he is spared, he will make a noise in the world." Following his sermons, a
                    committee of fellow New School ministers of the Fort Wayne Presbytery
                    interviewed him to express grave concerns over what they considered his
                    "misapprehension of the views and practices of the Presbyterian
                    Church." While they agreed not to press charges of heresy against him, they
                    filed a report expressing their opinion that some of Charles's views were
                    "subversive of all order in the house of God."34
                Although Charles was thus marked as "unsound" in his faith by his
                    religious peers, members of his congregation stood strongly behind him and would
                    have agreed with Susan McCulloch's observation that "every person that
                    I have seen or heard of that was not prejudiced in favor of the other
                    denominations came out of church delighted with the sermons." Furthermore,
                    influential members and friends of his 
                        33Charles Beecher, The Bible, a
                                Sufficient Creed, being two discourses delivered at the dedication
                                of the Second Presbyterian Church, Fort Wayne, Iowa [sic] February 22, 1846 (Boston, 1846), 9, 37- 39, 42.
                        34Susan Man McCulloch to Maria Halsey, February
                            26, 1846, quoted in Elsmere, Henry Ward Beecher,
                            219-20.
                    
                     congregation, including Hugh McCulloch,
                    encouraged Charles to publish the sermons in a booklet entitled The
                        Bible, a sufficient creed. In their opinion, the sermons were "an
                    able and fearless exposition of truths, which lie at the very foundation of
                    Protestantism, and which seem for years to have been lost sight of by the great
                    body of Protestant Christians." According to Beecher family records,
                    Charles's bold defense of religious freedom became "widely quoted
                    throughout the country," although it was sometimes attributed to his more
                    famous brother Henry.35
                The following winter, a New School Presbyterian minister then serving in
                            Wells and Adams Counties
                    commented to the AHMS on a visit with Charles Beecher in Fort
                        Wayne. "Much interest prevails in that church
                    at present on the subject of religion," he reported. "God's
                    spirit is evidently operating upon the hearts of sinners there and the members
                    of the church are awakened to their responsibility." Charles's own
                    reports to the society exposed a less public side of his ministry. He had found
                    it too costly to feed his horse, he wrote, and preferred instead to sell it so
                    that he could have additional income. Revealing the common practice of paying
                    the minister in goods rather than currency, he reported that church members had
                    been tardy with contributions of wood, bringing five loads only when the need
                    became known; a sexton had only recently been appointed to help; and he was
                    waiting for the quarterly support from the AHMS to pay his rent. Moreover, he
                    was once again doubting his calling to the ministry.36
                In correspondence with Lyman, Charles revealed his hesitancy to stand out as a
                    public adversary. He had "been digesting all the good advice brought away
                    with me," he wrote, and had come to think that "however wrong the
                    world is, I was not born to set it right." "I feel disposed to get
                    behind the scenes where I can sit on quietly," he told his father, to write
                    only lectures that were not controversial. Charles, however, could not stay long
                    on the sidelines of issues he regarded as morally impelling.37
                
                    35Ibid.; Stowe, Saints, Sinners and
                            Beechers, 338.
                    36J. G. Brice to Milton Badger, February 24, 1847,
                        reel 57, series 1, AHMS Papers; Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, February
                        5, 1846, February [n.d.], 1847, reel 57, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                    37Charles Beecher to Lyman Beecher,
                                Walnut Hills,
                                Ohio, June 24, 1847, folder 24, reel 1,
                        Beecher-Stowe Papers.
                
                
                Less than two months after his doubt-filled letter to his father, Charles
                    delivered a sermon on principles "which must be applied.., in all ensuing
                    elections, high and low, or our country is forever ruined." The text was
                    published in full in the local Times & Press on August 21,
                    1847, to quell what he termed "some misunderstanding." Charles took a
                    step into the political arena, building a case against voting for either
                    candidate in the campaign underway for U.S. Representative for the Tenth
                    Congressional District. Voting was "a high privilege, a duty," and
                    "a principle that must revolutionize the world," he argued. Even if a
                    man were in "a minority of self alone," a Christian was justified in
                    withholding his vote from any candidate who violated God's universal and
                    eternal commandments. Without naming either candidate, he clearly targeted Whig
                    William G. Ewing and Democrat William Rockhill, both prosperous businessmen from
                            Allen
                            County. Ewing's candidacy was particularly
                    controversial because he allegedly owned slaves in Missouri.38
                Public reactions to Charles's sermon were surprisingly muted, given the
                    local Whig support for Ewing. Reporting to the AHMS in the spring of 1848 on
                    events of the last year, he wrote that he was making some progress, although the
                    period had been difficult. "Moral influences came to a head in that year
                    tendi[n]g to drive me away. Odd fellowship, Sons of Temperence, Infidelity, And
                    Universalism, had all received rebuke, & grown restive. Politics also had
                    felt a little sore."39
                Charles continued to devote much time to bringing the Bible to life for his
                    congregation. "I am ... stedfast in faith—and steadily
                    teaching—teaching—teaching—unfolding the Bible—explaining, defending—&
                    pouring out of it waters of life," he reported to the AHMS. Scenes from
                    Christ's life became so real to him that he collected a series of lectures
                    into a narrative entitled The Incarnation; or, Pictures of the
                        Virgin and Her Son. Helped in part by Harriet's editing and by her
                    growing reputation as a writer, the book was published by the New York firm
                    Harper and Brothers in 1849. Episodes such as the journey of Mary and Joseph to
                    Bethlehem and Jesus' temptation in the wilderness were packed with
                    emotional description and a visceral immediacy. In the wilderness, as night
                    falls, "a thousand beasts prowl forth," and Jesus "hears their
                        
                        38Fort Wayne Times & Peoples
                                Press, August 21, 1847.
                        39Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, May 5, 1848,
                            reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                    
                     stealthy tracks, their fierce pantings, and
                    the gloom is lurid with their fiery eyes."40
                A review from the New York Weekly Mirror reprinted in the Fort
                    Wayne Times described Charles's work as one of "delicate fancy,
                    dramatic power, felicity in description, and occasional instances of splendid
                    imagination," on a level with Milton's Paradise
                        Regained. The reviewer for the Times was far less kind, describing
                    Charles's writing style as obscure and redundant. The book was available
                    locally at the bookstore of D. W Burroughs on Columbia Street, the commercial
                    hub of the town near the canal.41
                In his correspondence with the AHMS and with his family, Charles again despaired
                    over his role as a minister. He felt that churches had become a business,
                    "seeking to secure the patronage of that half of the community that
                    contributes." "I feel deeply sensible that we are in Babylon
                    here," he wrote in one letter to the AHMS; a few months later he wrote that
                    "the Enemy here is So Mightily Entrenched in the Church so-called." In
                    letters to family, he predicted the consequences of humanity living in
                    "alienation from God" and "alienation from his neighbor."
                    "This guilty land will not escape," he wrote to Harriet. "Father
                    may not live to see it. But I for one expect either to die by violence or to
                    live in the fastness and retreats of the forest. The plot is laid. The explosion
                    will come soon." In predicting a coming judgment day, Charles expressed a
                    militant zeal that was widely shared by Protestants in the years leading up to
                    the Civil War. Given his commitment to righting the wrongs of the world, Charles
                    could also have been reacting to the increasing conflicts in his own life.42
                Charles and Sarah now had four children, and lack of finances continued to beset
                    the family. In January 1849, a local newspaper ran an invitation to a
                    "Donation Visit" to the Beechers, for which visitors brought clothing
                    and other goods for the pastor's household. Epidemic disease was still a
                    concern as well. In late summer, cholera spread across 
                        40Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, October 30,
                            1848, February 24, 1849, reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers; Charles
                            Beecher, The Incarnation; or Pictures of the Virgin and Her
                                Son (New York, 1849), 92-94,
                            198-99.
                        41Fort Wayne Times, November 8,
                            1849.
                        42Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, October 30,
                            1848, February 24, 1849, reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers; Charles Beecher
                            to Harriet Beecher Stowe, May 1, 1848, folder 29, reel 1, Beecher-Stowe
                            Papers
                    .  the Ohio Valley to Fort
                        Wayne, where at least sixty residents died. Charles
                    led community prayer services and attended the dying. In these same months,
                    Charles expanded his reform activities, participating in a series of temperance
                    meetings with other ministers and civic leaders aimed at curtailing the sale of
                        liquor.43
                Outside forces began to loosen the hold of Second Presbyterian Church and Fort
                    Wayne on Charles and Sarah. Edward Beecher had left Illinois to return to Boston, the beginning of the end of the Beecher
                    family mission to the West. In 1847, Henry accepted a call to Plymouth Church in
                    Brooklyn, New York. By late 1849, Harriet and her
                    husband Calvin Stowe, devastated by the loss of a baby to cholera, were making
                    plans to move to Brunswick, Maine.
                    Family loyalties were pulling Charles back to the East.
                The family's overwhelming health problems became a decisive factor in their
                    departure. Charles was so exhausted and weak that Lyman and several of his
                    friends recommended that he step down from the ministry altogether. Sarah was
                    "nearly prostrated" by illness, and three of their four children
                    suffered from a malarial fever, known at the time as ague. Years of living on a
                    missionary's limited salary were taking their toll, and the coming
                            Indiana summer was something to dread. "The
                    indications of providence have been such as to determine me to remove my family
                    to the East to spend the summer," he wrote to the AHMS.44
                In fact, Charles had made the decision to leave his church and
                            Fort Wayne. The timing for his planned
                    departure, however, was unfortunate. In April 1850, he had become the stated
                    minister for his congregation, a position that implied a long-term mutual
                    commitment. Over his six years in Fort Wayne
                    he had earned wide respect and affection. He had more often than not been
                    accepted, "originality" and all. "The people are unanimous in
                    wanting me to stay," Charles wrote to the AHMS. He had built a congregation
                    out of a cross-section of society with different religious beliefs and
                    socioeconomic backgrounds, ranging from 
                        43Fort Wayne Times & Peoples
                                Press, January 4, December 6, 1849; Charles Beecher to Milton
                            Badger, October 31, 1849, reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers. Charles
                            described his sickness as the first stage of cholera, but reported that
                            he had recovered quickly. Lyman Beecher's stepsister Esther
                            reported that while staying with Charles during a cholera scare, his
                            family was "suffering from lack of fresh food, being too poor to
                            buy any. The quarterly stipend from the AHMS had miscarried," so
                            she used personal funds to cover the grocery bill. Caskey, Chariot of Fire, 13.
                        44Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, February 24,
                            May 27, 1850, reel 59, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                    
                     community leaders like the McCullochs to
                    "young persons in humble life." He had reached hundreds of people
                    through his sermons, Bible classes, and prayer meetings. His choirs and
                    music-making had brought great joy. He had made friendships that were hard to
                    break, including that with Hugh McCulloch, for whom, as Charles would write to
                    Susan, "he would give more for his differences than for most men's
                    agreements." Finally, through his ministry, he seemed to have fulfilled his
                    father's charge to make peace between God and men, and done so on his own
                    terms. His ministry had moved beyond his father's cautious guidelines, even
                    if that sometimes meant being "a minority of self alone."45
                Charles's last day in Fort Wayne was June 3, 1850.
                    He told his congregation that he hoped to be able to return in the fall and that
                    he could be reached at the home of his brother, Rev. Edward Beecher, in
                            Boston.46
                As he became more confident in his Fort Wayne
                    ministry, Charles was inevitably pulled into debates over the great moral issue
                    of slavery. He also confronted fellow ministers in the Fort Wayne Presbytery and
                    fellow temperance leaders over institutional racism toward free blacks that few
                    whites wanted to acknowledge. By the time he returned to New England in the
                    summer of 1850, he was ready to join Edward, Henry, and Harriet on the national
                    antislavery stage.
                As far back as 1818, the Presbyterian General Assembly had declared slavery
                    "a gross violation of the most precious and sacred rights of nature,"
                    "utterly inconsistent with the law of God" and "totally
                    irreconcilable with the spirit and principles of the Gospel of Christ."
                    Moreover, the same assembly had urged Christians "to efface this blot on
                    our holy religion" by completely abolishing slavery "throughout
                    Christendom, and if possible throughout the world." Since that time,
                    however, Presbyterian leaders had avoided "harsh censures" on their
                    religious brethren. Following the Old School-New School division in 1838, New
                    School ministers had become even more restrained.
                In the 1840s, New School ministers in Indiana felt
                    tremendous pressure to avoid voicing opinions against slavery. If even suspected
                    of 
                        45Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, February 24,
                            1849, May 27, 1850, reels 58, 59, series 1, AHMS Papers; Sarah and
                            Charles Beecher to Susan McCulloch, January 21, 1852, in Richards, ed.,
                                Fort Wayne Letters of Susan Man McCulloch.
                        46Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, May 27, 1850,
                            reel 59, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                    
                     harboring abolitionist convictions,
                    ministers were threatened with the walkout of angry parishioners. Charles's
                    colleague, Rev. John H. Brice of Wells County, had
                    written to the AHMS that members of one of his small congregations had
                    threatened to withdraw because of an unfounded rumor that he had organized a
                    temperance and abolitionist church. In 1843, at his church in
                            Indianapolis, Henry Ward Beecher had preached,
                    in careful and particular terms, against the general moral evil of slavery, had
                    called for its gradual extinction under existing laws, and had avoided explicit
                    condemnation of slaveholders, fearing similar reactions, if not mob violence.47
                Charles took his first public step into the slavery debate in the fall of 1845.
                    Together with a minority of other Indiana New School Presbyterian ministers and
                    elders (including his increasingly emboldened brother Henry), he urged the
                    upcoming New School Presbyterian General Assembly to take a position that
                    slaveholding was a sin. The ministers declared that slavery was "paralyzing
                    the efforts of the Church in propagating the pure gospel of Christ." It was
                    "injurious to the soul of the master and a grievous wrong to the
                    slave." This was a bold contrast to the non-confrontational position
                    prevalent among the national leadership. In urging the denomination to declare
                    slaveholding a sin, Charles publicly joined the abolitionist faction within the
                    Presbyterian Church, separating himself not only from his father but also from
                    most of his Fort Wayne Presbytery and Indiana New School colleagues.48
                In May 1847, Charles directly challenged his New School colleagues. In a letter
                    to the Fort Wayne Sentinel, he used the occasion of a recent
                    meeting of the presbytery to voice concerns about the conditions of African
                    Americans in Indiana. His colleagues had recently approved two
                    resolutions concerning slavery: "That slavery is a great sin, opposed to
                    the word of God, and Contrary to the rights of man"; and "That slavery
                    in the church should be a subject of discipline the same as any other
                    crime." While approving both positions, Charles felt the need to address
                    the pressing problems of African Americans in the so-called "free"
                    North. Had he been present at their meeting, he wrote, he would have added
                    another resolution: "Resolved, That the disenfranchisement of free 
                        47John H. Brice to Milton Badger, March 13, 1847,
                            reel 57, series 1, AHMS Papers; Elsmere, Henry Ward
                                Beecher, 177.
                        48Anti-Slavery Bugle, February
                            20, 1846; Marsden, The Evangelical Mind, 90-91, 93,
                            188.
                    
                     people of color as practiced in the state
                    of Indiana is a crime analogous to that of slavery. "49
                By the winter of 1848 Charles's reputation as an abolitionist had spread
                    well beyond Fort Wayne. He was asked to
                    consider taking the pulpit of a large, new Congregational church in
                            Washington, D.C.,
                    looking for "a preacher of firmness and decision, who is a sound, thinking,
                    reasoning abolitionist." One of their chief advisers and financial backers
                    was Lewis Tappan, the New York antislavery leader and
                    philanthropist. The church promised a free pulpit and an annual salary of $1500,
                    a far cry from the $400 Charles received from the AHMS.50
                Writing to his father, Charles anticipated how he might serve such a
                    congregation. He would win antislavery converts not through rationalism but
                    through Christianity's law to "love the Lord thy God with all thy
                    heart and thy neighbor as thy self" and through teaching the Bible.
                    "Hence I should expect to be at liberty to preach sermons, as many as might
                    be necessary, in which I should say nothing about slavery." Charles did not
                    pursue the offer, and his lack of enthusiasm for such a challenge suggests that
                    he feared that the new church would find his ideology not "sound in the
                    sense that it is like that of the majority (or minority) either." Moreover,
                    the offer had come at the same time that Second Presbyterian in
                            Fort Wayne was initiating steps to install
                    Charles as their permanent minister. What Charles seems to have left unsaid was
                    that, "originality" and all, he felt accepted at Second Presbyterian
                        Church.51
                In the fall of 1849, Charles found an opportunity to voice his most forceful
                    arguments to date against the oppression of African Americans in northern
                    states. Through a series of local meetings, he had become acquainted with the
                    Sons of Temperance, a new statewide society that was attracting
                            Fort Wayne followers. The organization's
                    newspaper had recently defended their decision to deny membership to a new
                    African American group in Lafayette, Indiana. Specifically, Charles challenged the Sons of
                    Temperance to give "a single good reason" why African Americans could
                    not form their own chapter.52
                
                    49Fort Wayne Sentinel, May 22,
                        1847.
                    50Charles Beecher to Lyman Beecher, February 1, 1848,
                        folder 24, reel 1, Beecher-Stowe Papers.
                    51Ibid.
                    52Fort Wayne Times, October 4,
                        November 8, 1849.
                
                
                A representative of the group responded, attempting to put the subject to rest,
                    but his answer appeared, at the very least, evasive: African Americans were not
                    accepted into the Sons of Temperance for the same reason they were not accepted
                    as equals in the larger society—for the sake of "peace and harmony."
                    To Charles, such an explanation was "essentially bad and worthless ... not
                    susceptible of any valid defense." Presbyterian churches did not deny
                    African Americans "of suitable piety" membership, nor was their
                    ministry closed to anyone who was qualified. When African Americans were not
                    made to feel welcome, Charles argued, it was because of "the wicked
                    prejudice of color": Deprived of their vote in
                        some States and of testifying on oath, and subjected to various
                        disadvantages, they are really forced down into a species of low caste like what prevails in India. A
                        phenomenon at war with the Gospel we profess and disgraceful to our free
                        institutions. With characteristic humor, Charles then turned the
                    question of maintaining "peace and harmony" back to the writer: [I]t must mean that the belligerent dispositions of some
                        of the harmonious fraternity would be dangerously excited by the sight of a
                        particular color, as is known to be the case with some of the lower species
                        of animals...This is a strange confession to be made concerning an order
                        which we have heard so highly recommended for benevolence and devotion to
                        truth... As highly worthy of being entered by Christians and Christian
                        ministers. Charles concluded by asking other New School Presbyterian
                    ministers to join him in speaking out against this "unkind -
                    ungenerous—unchristian" conduct.53
                
                    53Fort Wayne Times, October 3,
                        November 8, December 6, 1849. Charles's appeal was made to Bro. Post of
                        Lagro, Bro. Hawes of Marion, Bro. Post of Logansport, and Bro. H. W. Beecher
                        of Brooklyn, New York.
                
                
                Charles may often have felt "a minority of self alone" in
                            Fort Wayne. His growing passion to correct the
                    world and his increasing courage to speak out against racial oppression were
                    nevertheless recognizable Beecher traits. It is risky to draw direct lines of
                    family influence, but undoubtedly Charles was encouraged by Edward and Henry.
                    Edward's defense of Elijah Lovejoy and his commitment to total abolition in
                    the early 1840s had made him a family maverick as well as a national leader.
                    After moving in 1847 to Plymouth Church in Brooklyn, Henry was vaulted to the
                    forefront of the abolition movement as well. As he gained national headlines for
                    leading efforts to buy slaves their freedom and to harbor fugitives, he became
                    the target of proslavery mobs. Plymouth Church was burned in January 1849,
                    rallying massive public support and funds for rebuilding. Historians have
                    frequently remarked that the Beechers' unusual family loyalty drew them
                    together and strengthened them. Was it merely by chance that Charles spoke out
                    against racism in the same period in which Henry was taking on national
                    leadership in the antislavery cause?54
                Questions regarding Charles's participation in the underground railroad in
                            Fort Wayne are also inevitable. His earliest
                    contacts probably came via his sister Harriet and her husband Calvin Stowe. In a
                    letter to Frederick Douglass in 1851, asking for his help writing Uncle Tom's Cabin, Harriet emphasized her family's lifelong
                    commitment to ending slavery. As children, she wrote, she and her siblings had
                    frequently been moved to tears by Lyman's prayers and sermons for the
                    deliverance of American slaves. "Every brother I have has been in his
                    sphere a leading Anti-Slavery man," she wrote. Harriet also described how
                    she and Calvin were active in helping fugitive slaves during their many years in
                    Cincinnati: As for myself and my husband, we have for
                        the last seventeen years lived on the border of a slave state, and we have
                        never shrunk from the fugitives, and we have helped them with all we had to
                        give. I have received the children of liberated slaves into a family school,
                        and taught them with my own children.55
                    
                        54Meredith, Politics of the
                                Universe, 101; Schreiner, The Passionate
                                Beechers, 143.
                        55Stowe and Stowe, Harriet Beecher Stowe, 151. In
                            "Mysteries of the Underground Railroad," Wilbur Siebert wrote
                            that Harriet Beecher Stowe, "[a]fter her marriage in 1836...kept
                            open
                    
                     Charles's participation in
                    Cincinnati's underground is unfortunately
                    largely unrecorded. Only a single note written in 1896, when he was eighty-one
                    years old, provides a personal record of involvement in helping slaves. In
                    response to queries sent out by Wilbur Siebert, an early historian of the
                    underground railroad, Charles wrote that he "had very little personal
                    knowledge" of the network. The only incident he could recall was when, as a
                    student at Lane Theological Seminary, he had helped Calvin Stowe drive a young
                    black woman to a station of the underground railroad north of
                    Cincinnati: I went
                        one night, dark and cloudy with Prof. C.E. Stowe, in a covered wagon, with a
                        fugitive slave—to the house of (I think) a Mr. Graves in Ohio—but where it was, I cannot tell. He was a
                        conductor on the Underground R.R. In this particular instance our mission
                        was a success, and the girl escaped to Canada as we afterwards heard.56 Letters and sermons from Charles's
                            Fort Wayne years express, even if indirectly,
                    a moral imperative to support fugitive slaves coming through the area. His
                    emphasis on love of neighbor as self may have extended to helping the fugitives.
                    Clearly, he used stories in the Bible as metaphors for the moral obligations of
                    Christians. In his May 1848 report to the AHMS, he made an oblique reference to
                    underground railroad work. After listing a number of challenges that had come to
                    a head the previous year, he wrote "Besides Sunday matters
                    underground." It is reasonable to believe that involvement with the
                    underground railroad was then very much on his mind.57
                A note from Fort Wayne businessman Augustus C. Beaver to
                    Siebert offers yet another missing link. If Charles was not directly engaged in
                    the work of aiding fugitive slaves, he drew supporters into the cause. Writing
                    in 1896, Beaver looked back upon the financial support that he and other
                    anonymous donors had provided, remembering 
                        house for wayfarers in Gilbert Street, Walnut Hills. This continued
                            until 1850 when the Stowes removed to Maine." Similarly,
                            Appleton's Cyclopaedia of America Biography noted
                            that "[f]ugitive slaves were frequently sheltered in her house and
                            assisted by her husband and brothers to escape to Canada." Both from box 55, roll 10, Wilbur
                            H. Siebert Collection Microfilm Edition, MIC 192, Ohio Historical
                            Society Archives/Library (hereafter Siebert Collection).
                        56Charles Beecher to Wilbur Siebert, March 7,
                            1896, box 55, roll 10, Siebert Collection.
                        57Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, May 5, 1848,
                            reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                    
                     as well the extreme risks and secrecy
                    because of the town's "strongly democratic" nature. "[A]11
                    that the friends of fugitives could do was contribute money, which was furnished
                    freely," he wrote. Beaver, the owner of a lumber mill, joined Second
                    Presbyterian Church in 1846. His brother Daniel had joined the church the
                    previous year and served as an elder in 1847. The two brothers were among the
                    unknown number of citizens who were touched by Charles's gospel of love.58
                While records may never surface linking him to the underground railroad in Fort
                    Wayne, what matters most was Charles Beecher's growing courage to serve as
                    a moral spokesman for his day. He was fortunate to have the support of a family
                    of freethinkers and moral leaders. He was also fortunate to have a diverse
                    congregation that avoided quarrelling religious factions and believed in social
                    justice and a free pulpit. Ultimately, however, Charles drew upon his own
                    strength. 
                Charles and Sarah Beecher did not return to Fort Wayne
                    at the end of the summer of 1850. On August 30, Charles resigned from the
                        pastorate.59 The family moved back east, and Charles
                    took a pulpit in Newark, New
                        Jersey, where, a little more than one year later, he
                    became nationally known for his denunciation of the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850.
                    The same passion that was kindled in Fort Wayne
                    now exploded in "The Duty of Disobedience to Wicked Laws: A Sermon on the
                    Fugitive Slave Law." With the support of his new congregation, the sermon
                    was printed, widely circulated, slandered, and praised.60
                Charles gained national audiences on at least three other occasions. In 1854 his
                    congregation in Newark, the First Congregational
                    Society, published his sermon denouncing the Kansas-Nebraska Act. The following
                    year the American Anti-Slavery Society published his carefully researched and
                    argued analysis of the Bible's position on slavery, "The God 
                        58A.C. Beaver to W. H. Siebert, [n.d.], 1896, roll
                            2, Siebert Microfilm Collection; Manual of the Second
                                Presbyterian Church, Fort Wayne, Indiana
                                    ([Fort
                                    Wayne, Ind.],
                            1869), Genealogy Department, Allen County Public Library,
                                    Fort Wayne; Charles
                            Beecher to Milton Badger, May [n.d.], 1847, reel 57, series 1, AHMS
                            Papers.
                        59In 1852, Hugh and Susan McCulloch, the former by
                            letter and the latter in person, urged Charles and Sarah to return to
                                    Fort Wayne for a visit
                            or to move back to Indiana. Charles did neither,
                            but the two families continued to correspond. Mather, Frontier Faith,
                            175-76.
                        60Charles Beecher, The Duty of
                                Disobedience to Wicked Laws: A Sermon on the Fugitive Slave Law
                                    (New York, 1851). One
                                    Fort Wayne newspaper
                            condemned the sermon's "atrocious and inflammatory
                            sentiments" and warned against the "insane counsels of the
                            clergy" that could cause "rivers of blood to flow." Fort Wayne Times, March 13, 1851.
                    
                     of the Bible Against Slavery."
                    Finally, Charles took what has been described as his "most divisive
                    act" on December 23, 1860. On December 14, President James Buchanan had
                    called for a national "day of humiliation, fasting, and prayer" to
                    take place January 4, 1861. The president sought to "restore the friendship
                    and good will" which had existed between northern and southern states and
                    urged northern anti-slavery advocates to forgo their "false pride of
                    opinion." Characteristically, Charles not only preached against compliance
                    to the proclamation, but also led his congregation in writing resolutions that
                    charged that the "president of the United States is in treasonous
                    conspiracy with rebels to overthrow the government."61
                In these same years, Charles would help Harriet write passages describing slavery
                    that were essential to her epic novel Uncle Tom's Cabin;
                    he would be her companion, manager, and spokesperson on her triumphal European
                    tour as the world's most famous author. His father's voluminous life
                    story would be entrusted to him to compile and edit. He would again endure the
                    rebuke of theologians who considered his theology unsound and heretical. He
                    would suffer the death of children, personal illness, and poverty. While he
                    never soared to the heights of popular oratory and writing achieved by Henry and
                    Harriet, through his own battles of words he kindled and ignited the
                    nation's conscience. He argued for a free pulpit, and when his denomination
                    questioned his theology, he kept the support of his congregations.
                Finally, Charles Beecher could find solace in looking back on his years as a
                    missionary at Fort Wayne's Second Presbyterian Church. As he wrote to the
                    AHMS in late 1848, these were years significant in ways that he could never
                    fully appreciate. "The process thru which I am passing & gradually
                    conducting my people is one which must ultimately yield harvests. Even tho I
                    should not be permitted to reap them." He had awakened the minds and
                    captured the hearts of his first congregation. He had opened a path that he
                    would continue to follow in the years leading up to the Civil War. This was no
                    small accomplishment.62
                
                    61Charles Beecher, A Sermon on the
                            Nebraska Bill (Newark, N.J., 1854) and The God of the Bible
                            Against Slavery (New York,
                        1855). The first sermon was published by Charles's congregation, the
                        First Congregational Society, as well as by Oliver & Brothers in New
                        York City; the second sermon was published by the American Anti-Slavery
                        Society.
                    62Charles Beecher to Milton Badger, October 30, 1848,
                        reel 58, series 1, AHMS Papers.
                
            





            
            
                The Indiana Seminary Charter of 1820
                HOWARD E McMAINS
                Nearly hidden in the narrative of pioneer Indiana is the
                    story of the Indiana Seminary Charter of 1820. The charter's story,
                    however, is not only basic to the foundation narrative of Indiana University but
                    also an important part of the state's early history. When told at all, the
                    story relates that the state constitution, the charter, and the origins of the
                    university proceeded, one from the other, along a clear path of historical
                        development.1 It is a story that seems direct as well as
                    clear, like so many other narratives with which we explain the past.
                Societies construct explanatory narratives from different kinds of stories, based
                    on research, tradition, or imagination. For the past century it has been
                    accepted that in 1806 Parson Mason Locke Weems constructed the story of young
                    George Washington and a cherry tree for the fifth edition of his biography, thus
                    enlivening the narrative to meet competing biographies of the first president.
                    The story was intended to illustrate Washington's lifelong nobility of
                    character, but the artifice reveals Weems rather than Washington.2 Nonetheless, the tale is often regarded 
                        Howard E McMains received his Ph.D. from Indiana University and has
                            published in U.S. and English history. He is retiring from a career that
                            has included teaching at the college level and editing the OAH Newsletter. He wishes to thank Robert H. Ferrell,
                            anonymous readers for the IMH, and the University of California-Berkeley
                            libraries.
                        1Donald E Carmony, Indiana,
                                1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (Indianapolis, 1998), 396.
                        2Joseph J. Ellis, His Excellency
                                George Washington (New
                                York, 2004), 7-8.
                    
                     as a moral exemplar and a historical
                    possibility. Societies abide such constructions, even in the face of contrary
                    evidence, because they fulfill a purpose, offer an explanation, or privilege one
                    view over another. We may even believe that a good story ought to have happened.
                    And so construction, rather than truth, becomes the daughter of time.3
                Weems's story led to scholarly skepticism; the story of the seminary charter
                    ultimately became venerable. In the 1880s, when writers first seriously
                    considered Indiana University's past, they found the story of visionary
                    pioneers who created an educational ladder, for which-in Thomas D. Clark's
                    1970 phrase-the charter represented "the bottom rail."4 In this narrative, the 1816 state constitution provided a mandate
                    and the 1820 seminary charter provided legislative authority for a university.
                    In 1828, the legislature raised the seminary to a college, and one decade later
                    the college became Indiana University.
                Until the 1880s, however, the university gave little thought to the charter. In
                    its early years, the school was concerned with survival rather than history, for
                    it was not a place of consequence. A lawsuit in the 1850s nearly ended the
                        institution.5 A fire in 1854 destroyed its one building,
                    along with its library and records. The Civil War reduced enrollment to a mere
                    handful of students. In 1867, the first small state subsidy began a cycle of
                    biennial legislative reviews and biennial fears of removal to the state's
                    bustling capital. Enrollment remained low, about one-quarter that of the Indiana
                    Asbury College (now DePauw University) at Greencastle. As late as the mid-1880s, the
                    institution's future in Bloomington
                    seemed uncertain, and talk of removal continued intermittently until the
                    1920s.
                During the mid-1880s, circumstances caused the institution to reinvent itself,
                    and, in the process, to look for its origin. In part this search attempted to
                    secure the institution against the biennial threat of removal. Indiana
                    University in 1880 was in effect a classical college with 
                        3The phrase "Truth is the daughter of
                            time" comes from Aulus Gellius (c. 125-180 CE); The
                                Attic Nights of Aulus Gellius, trans. Rev. W. Beloe (3 vols.,
                                    London, 1795), 2:356-58.
                            Since 1959, Robert Laurent's monumental wall sculpture
                            "Veritas Filia Temporis" has been a feature at Ballantine Hall
                            on the Indiana University campus.
                        4Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University,
                                Midwestern Pioneer, vol. 1, The Early Years
                                    (Bloomington,
                                    Ind., 1970), chap. 3.
                        5The suit concerned the university's title to
                            the educational township that Congress had given in 1804 to Vincennes
                            University. For a summary of the suit, see ibid., 183-95.
                    
                    
                    
                        Indiana University, c. 1840. Known first as a seminary, then as a
                            college, and finally in 1838 as a university, the school still had few
                            buildings and a small student body.
                        Courtesy Indiana University Archives, Bloomington
                     a minister-president; one decade later it was a modern university with
                    a scientist-president. Two factors forced this dramatic shift. In summer 1883, a
                    second fire destroyed the grandly designated "scientific building" but
                    left the smaller "literary building" constructed after the 1854 fire.
                    The trustees made a bold decision to move from the site designated in the 1820
                    charter, one-half mile south of the town square, to a larger site one-half mile
                    to the east.6 They authorized two modern buildings for
                    scientific teaching—Wylie and Owen Halls—and supplemented them with a small
                    wood-frame building for other classes. The following year the trustees made a
                    second bold decision after unseemly allegations associated the president, the
                    Rev. Dr. Lemuel Moss, and the young female instructor of Greek. He resigned, she
                    was dismissed. Trustees appointed the faculty's youngest and most popular
                    professor, David Starr Jordan, as Moss's successor. Jordan was an 1871
                    zoology graduate in the 
                        6The original property faced
                                    Bloomington's
                            Second Street, where College Avenue originally ended; College Avenue now
                            extends through the old property to First Street. Between College Avenue
                            and Walnut Street is "Seminary Park," a remnant of the campus;
                            west of College—at this time—a parking lot, supermarket, and fast food
                            restaurant cover the area where two buildings stood prior to the 1883
                            fire.
                    
                     first class at Cornell University, one of
                    the modern educational institutions appearing in the United
                        States after the Civil War. Located on the new campus
                    and led by a modern academic with an international scientific reputation,
                    Indiana University was no longer a static classical college but an expanding
                        university.7
                These events uprooted the institution, and the new campus opened in 1885 without
                    a sense of history. New buildings smelled of fresh lumber and plaster.
                    University students abandoned the old college's traditions. A generation of
                    younger faculty with modern academic training replaced aging classicists, mostly
                    ministers who had taught for decades. Jordan revised the curriculum, turning
                    from the traditional study of mathematics and ancient languages to a modern
                    emphasis on science and modern languages. To some longtime staff, the pace of
                    change was breathtaking, as senior faculty member Theophilus Wylie, nephew of
                    the first Indiana College president Andrew Wylie, wrote in his diary: "New
                    arrangements, new studies, new teachers, new modes of teaching, give me much
                        anxiety."8 Faced with so much change, the trustees
                    sought to anchor the institution with a foundation date. Looking back into the
                    school's history, the trustees declared that, although the college had not
                    become a university until 1838, the first state constitution had intended the
                    seminary to grow into the state university and, thus, that the Indiana Seminary
                    Charter of 1820 marked the foundation of Indiana University.
                The trustees marked their new sense of the university's history by
                    celebrating the first "foundation day" on January 20, 1889, with an
                    assembly in the old college chapel on the original campus. It included hours of
                    Victorian oratory, and one of the speakers was Judge David D. Banta, trustee and
                    1855 law graduate, who spoke about "the seminary period." After the
                    first chapel exercises, students and faculty marched to the new campus almost a
                    mile away for more oratory. For the next five years, on each foundation day,
                    Banta carried his story of the institution forward until he reached the Civil
                        War.9
                
                    7Jordan resigned in 1891 to become first president of
                        Stanford University, another of the modern universities being founded in the
                                United
                                States in the latter part of the
                        century.
                    8Theophilus Wylie Diary, September 6, 1885, Indiana
                        University Archives, Bloomington,
                                Indiana.
                    9David D. Banta, "The Seminary Period," in
                        James Albert Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                            1820-1902 (Bloomington,
                                Ind., 1940), 3-25.
                
                
                
                    James A. Woodburn, c. 1930. A student and later a faculty member of the
                        university, Woodburn published his history of the school in 1940.
                    Courtesy Indiana University Archives, Bloomington
                
                The trustees designated Wylie to prepare a historical sketch and collect
                    information on all graduates and faculty to replace information the fires had
                    destroyed. This substantial work was published in 1890. At about the same time,
                    James A. Woodburn, an 1872 graduate and faculty member, published his Johns
                    Hopkins doctoral dissertation on the history of higher education in
                            Indiana. Wylie and Woodburn agreed with their
                    friend Banta that the 1816 state constitution had planted the  "germ" of the university. Banta's
                    narrative persisted well into the twentieth century. In 1940, Woodburn published
                    a history of the university as far as 1902, but the first six chapters merely
                    reprinted Banta's foundation-day lectures. Clark, in his three-volume
                    sesquicentennial history, likewise accepted Banta's judgment.10
                Wylie and the historians who followed him assumed that the seminary's
                    primary visionary was Bloomington pioneer and
                    physician David Maxwell. Indeed, he was a lobbyist for the charter, then a
                    trustee and state legislator. It was he who persuaded the legislature in 1828 to
                    charter the seminary as a college and a decade later as a university. Until his
                    death in 1854 he was a presence on the campus. Banta, who remembered him with
                    great respect, must have listened to Maxwell's version of the foundation
                    narrative many times. Maxwell's son James succeeded him on the board until
                    his own death in 1891, and it is reasonable to infer that he reiterated his
                    father's story. The elder Maxwell's memory was enshrined that same
                    year, when the university's new library, its third modern building, opened
                    and was named Maxwell Hall. Banta, Wylie, and Woodburn all wrote their histories
                    at a time when the university was under James Maxwell's watchful eye, and
                    it was perhaps natural that their narratives emphasized his father's
                    founding role and assumed that constitution, seminary, and university were
                    neatly aligned.
                Such assumptions beg questions of the charter's background and context, as
                    well as of the legislature's intent. Questions about the early
                    nineteenth-century narrative do not reflect on today's institution, but as
                    a point of history it is interesting to revisit the narrative and examine its
                    construction.

                At the time of statehood in 1816, the Indiana Territory was a wilderness with
                    little need for a university. The population was scattered along the
                    "well-watered valleys" of the Whitewater, Ohio, and lower Wabash; few
                    settlers had pushed into the interior between the forks of the White River, future location of
                            Monroe
                            County and Bloomington. In 1809, Native Americans had
                    relinquished claim to the region south of the "ten o'clock line"
                    that began a few miles from Madison and ran 
                        10Theophilus Wylie, Indiana
                                University: Its History from 1820, when founded, to 1890
                                    (Indianapolis, 1890);
                            James A. Woodburn, Higher Education in Indiana,
                                    (Washington,
                                D.C., 1891); Woodburn, History
                                of Indiana University; Clark, Indiana
                                University, vol. 1, 25.
                    
                     northwest, as if pointing to ten
                    o'clock. No roads broke the forests, save the buffalo trace between the
                    Falls of the Ohio and
                            Vincennes, which passed some fifty miles south
                    of Bloomington's future site. In 1812, the
                    outbreak of war prevented settlement below the ten o'clock line, and
                    settlers did not venture north toward the line until about 1815. After
                            Indiana became a state, the New Purchase Treaty
                    cleared title to land north of the ten o'clock line, including the land
                    that became part of Monroe County.11
                Many of the county's settlers had first seen the region around the
                    university's future location while serving as rangers during the War of
                    1812. One of the four companies commissioned by Territorial Governor William
                    Henry Harrison was under the command of Judge Williamson Dunn; Dunn's
                    brother-in-law, David Maxwell, then in Madison, joined the company as surgeon,
                    and his brother Edward as a ranger. The company mustered at Madison and spent a
                    year building fortifications along the Ohio River. In summer 1813, the companies of
                    Dunn and James Bigger raided Indian villages along the West Fork of the
                        White River. They marched
                    north, probably passing through the area that became Monroe
                        County, and into the central part of the territory,
                    camping near the future site of Indianapolis. In the autumn they went to Fort
                    Harrison on the Wabash
                    to relieve Capt. Zachary Taylor's regulars. Wartime experiences were
                    important, for as one of the rangers wrote: "The soldiers became much
                    attached to each other during their service, and the kindest feeling towards
                    each other seems ever to have existed between them all."12
                At war's end settlers began moving toward the ten o'clock line. The
                    Parks family from North Carolina, including
                    James Parks Sr., who had been a captain in Bigger's rangers, squatted on
                    the East Fork of the White
                        River in 1815 but failed to purchase land at the auction held at
                            Jeffersonville one year
                    later. The family moved northward, almost to the line, and this time managed to
                    buy land. Among the first purchasers were other rangers from the companies of
                    Dunn and Bigger, including 
                        11Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Land
                                Office Business (New
                                York, 1968), 101-102, 131.
                        12William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches (Indianapolis, 1883), 401-402;
                            "Reminiscences of Col. John Ketcham," in Logan Esarey, ed.,
                                Governors Messages and Letters, Messages and Letters of
                                William Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1922), 1:274-87. For
                            Fort Harrison (Terre Haute) during the war, see John D. Barnhart and
                            Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to 1816, The Colonial Period
                                    (Indianapolis, 1971),
                            396-401.
                    
                     Bigger's brother William, who
                    purchased land southwest of the future site of Bloomington, and his brother James, who purchased
                    land to the northwest. John Ketcham, a sergeant in Bigger's rangers, and
                    John W. Lee, a private in Dunn's rangers, both bought land, and other
                    buyers may have been related to rangers. Another purchaser, James Borland,
                    bought land in several townships and later in Bloomington. Of those days Parks recalled that
                    contacts between the first settlers and Native Americans were friendly, that the
                    land produced corn, and that the woods yielded deer and turkeys.13
                 As of 1816, after the territory's population had met the 60,000 minimum
                    required under the 1787 Northwest Ordinance for statehood, Parks and his fellow
                    rangers found themselves residents of the new state of Indiana. The Land Ordinance of 1785 had included a proviso
                    that one mile-square section of each township's thirty-six be reserved for
                    support of public schools.14 Two years later, the drafters
                    of the Northwest Ordinance iterated the purpose: "[R]eligion, morality, and
                    knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind,
                    schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged." The
                    sentiment was Thomas Jefferson's, even if the future founder of the
                    University of Virginia did not write this particular expression. At the same
                    time, in 1787, Congress agreed to a second form of grant, which resulted from a
                    land speculator's strategy rather than congressional policy. The result,
                    nonetheless, had implications for the entire Northwest Territory. Manasseh
                    Cutler represented the Ohio Company and was engaged in negotiations with
                    Congress over his company's land purchase. He was a Yale graduate, an
                    all-round polymath known to members of Congress, a visionary. He demanded and
                    received two townships, which he required to be located at the center of the
                    company's purchase, for support of a university. By 1795 the company began
                    to survey the townships; in 1801 the town of Athens,
                            Ohio Territory, was laid out. And in 1802, the
                    territorial legislature chartered Cutler's university: "[T]he Congress
                    of the United States did make a grant of two townships 
                        13Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of
                                Morgan, Monroe, and Brown, Indiana (Chicago, 1884), 372- 73; Forest M. Hall,
                                Historic Treasures (Bloomington, Ind., 1922), 23.
                        14These would eventually become township common
                            schools, but not until the 1850s did Indiana begin to see fulfillment of
                            this objective. See Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850,
                            369-94, for progress in the 1830s and 1840s; Emma Lou
                                Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era 1850-1880
                                    (Indianapolis, 1965),
                            461-74, on the 1850s.
                    
                     of land, within the purchase made by the
                    Ohio Company of Associates, for the encouragement and support of an university
                    therein." After Ohio became a state, the new legislature
                    passed a charter with similar wording, which remains the charter for Ohio
                        University.15 Thus, the Land Ordinance provided section
                    grants for common schools throughout the Northwest Territory as a matter of
                    policy; Cutler's bargaining obtained a specific grant in the
                            Ohio purchase as a matter of strategy.
                As we consider the expectations for schooling held by territorial and early state
                    legislators, it is important to note the imprecise use of the terms
                    "seminary" and "academy" in the Early Republic. In the early
                    nineteenth century, both words referred to private schools below the collegiate
                    and above the public common school levels.16 Anyone
                    establishing a college or university called the institution a college or
                    university, not a seminary. In the 1820s, several academies and seminaries-most
                    of them short-lived-appeared in southern Indiana towns.17 They were not collegiate institutions. Howard Peckham has
                    explained that they were "a characteristically American catchall school
                    that enrolled such students as [they] could attract and taught them such
                    subjects of the English or Latin-grammar curriculum as seemed
                        appropriate."18 The ostensible purpose of these
                    schools was to prepare students to attend one of a handful of American
                        colleges.19 The Indiana Seminary Charter's most
                    ardent proponent, David Maxwell, wrote in 1821, four years before the first
                    dozen boys enrolled, that the seminary was to be a "humble" school
                    where "the elementary parts of an education can be had."20
                
                    15Thomas N. Hoover, The History of Ohio
                            University (Athens, Ohio,
                        1954), 10-19.
                    16The nineteenth-century definition is more narrow
                        than that of the sixteenth century, with its broader implication of a place
                        of instruction. See "Seminary," Oxford English
                            Dictionary (2nd edition, 1989). In the 1870s the Johns Hopkins
                        University began offering a special course in philology called a
                        "seminary," which quickly evolved into a
                        "seminar."
                    17Donald Carmony has written that in
                                Indiana "secondary education was mainly
                        at seminaries and academies or at similar institutions with various
                        names." Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850, 394. In the last
                        half of the nineteenth century, public "high schools" began to
                        fulfill this purpose. William J. Reese, The Origins of the
                            American High School (New
                        Haven, Conn.,
                        1995), 30.
                    18Quoted in Lawrence A. Cremin, American
                            Education: The National Experience, 1783-1876
                                (New York, 1980), 389,
                        400.
                    19In the 1820s, young Hoosiers and Michiganders in
                        search of a college education had few choices close to home: Ohio
                        University, Athens; Transylvania
                        University, Lexington,
                                Kentucky; Jefferson and Washington Colleges in
                                Pennsylvania; Hamilton College,
                                Clinton, New York;
                        Union College, Schenectady. Howard H.
                        Peckham, The Making of the University of Michigan,
                            1817-1992 (New
                            York, 1992), 9.
                    20lndiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives (1821), 106.
                
                
                Territorial and early state legislators used various terms to describe the
                    institution that each had in mind. Indiana's 1815
                    statehood petition confusingly requested an educational land grant, such as had
                    been made in Ohio for "a reserve of one entire township,
                    for the support of a college, to be located at some suitable place, on the
                            United
                            States lands in this Territory." Subsequent
                    documents refer only to a seminary. Petitioners explained their request in
                    prevailing Jeffersonian terms: "[T]he promotion of useful Knowledge, is the
                    best Guarantee to our civil institutions."21 Such talk
                    had appeared in the Land Ordinance in support of township common schools. Other
                    midwestern state constitutions supported education in differing terms.
                            Ohio's 1803 Constitution declared that,
                    "religion, morality and knowledge being essentially necessary to good
                    government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of instructions
                    shall forever be encouraged by legislative provision not inconsistent with the
                    rights of conscience" (article 8, section 3). In contrast,
                            Michigan's 1835 Constitution was more
                    pragmatically Jacksonian: "The Legislature shall encourage by all suitable
                    means, the promotion of Intellectual, Scientifical and Agricultural
                    improvement" (article 10, section 2).22
                The Indiana Enabling Act, which became law on April 19, 1816, provided that an
                    entire township "shall be designated by the President ... for the use of a
                    seminary of learning," thus altering the proposed institution to a
                    non-collegiate grade.23 The arrangement of a grant to
                    support education was in fact the second made to Indiana, for
                    Congress in 1804 granted to Indiana and Michigan Territories one university township based on
                    the Ohio pattern. Revenues from the sale of land in the
                            Indiana township, in Gibson
                        County twenty-five miles south of
                            Vincennes, were to support an institution in
                            Knox
                            County, which was chartered as Vincennes
                    University. Its charter argued that the "independence, happiness and energy
                    of every republic" required that "the 
                        21Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker, eds., The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809-1816
                                    (Indianapolis, 1934),
                            813.
                        22Ohio's 1803 Constitution can be found in
                            "Ohio History Central: An Online Encyclopedia of Ohio History"
                            at http://www.ohiohistory.org/portal/research.html; Michigan's 1835 Constitution is online at
                            http://www.legislature.mi.gov/documents/historical/miconstitution
                            1835.htm (both accessed July 29, 2010).
                        23Clarence Edwin Carter, ed., Territorial Papers of the United States, vol. 8, The Territory of Indiana, 1810-1816 (Washington, D.C., 1939), 407.
                    
                     knowledge which is requisite for a
                    magistrate and elector, should be widely diffused." Despite its name and
                    ambition, the school operated as a grammar school for a few years; by 1820 its
                    charter was in abeyance and the future of the Gibson County
                    township lay in question, leading to a decade-long lawsuit.24
                The constitutional convention met at Corydon near
                    the Falls of the Ohio,
                    and the first resolution before the body declared "that it is expedient, at
                    this time, to proceed to form a constitution and state government."25 After spending the day on other business, the resolution
                    was tabled late in the afternoon; the next day it passed by a vote of
                    thirty-four to eight. One of the eight dissenters was David Maxwell, who in
                    later years nonetheless became identified with the reserved educational
                    township. He and the other dissenters came from the counties of
                            Knox and Jefferson, where
                    in 1814 the territorial legislature had chartered the profitable Vincennes and
                    Madison banks. Perhaps they were concerned about statehood's impact on
                    their banks, while at the same time accepting the view that state charters could
                    support local development.26
                The constitutional convention proceeded to designate a reserved township in a
                    manner contrary to the enabling act, which specifically had placed authority in
                    the hands of the President of the United
                        States. On June 19, John Johnson of Knox
                        County-who voted against the convention's initial
                    resolution-made a motion "[t]hat Jonathan Lindley, Benjamin Parke, and
                    James Noble, be appointed to designate ... a township the most proper to be
                    reserved for the state, for the use of a seminary of learning, and ... to
                    request the President to reserve the same."27 The use
                    of the term seminary followed from the enabling act. Johnson was a trustee of
                    Vincennes University and a federalist ally of Parke and former Governor
                    Harrison. Parke, also a Vincennes trustee, was Harrison's wartime aide and
                    a one-time proponent of slavery in the 
                        24Robert Constantine, ed., "Minutes of the
                            Board of Trustees for Vincennes University [December 6, 1806-September
                            12, 1807]," Indiana Magazine of History, 54
                            (December 1958); Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816,
                            376-78; Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850, 396; Peckham,
                            University of Michigan, 5.
                        25Donald E Carmony, ed., "Journal of the
                            Convention of the Indiana Territory, 1816," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, 61 (June 1965), 92.
                        26The constitution's tenth article allowed a
                            future legislature to charter a state bank, but for the time being the
                            banks at Vincennes and Madison were continued with charters granted by
                            the territorial legislature. Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to
                                1816, 457.
                        27Carmony, ed., "Journal of the
                            Convention," 122.
                    
                     territory, and would soon be a negotiator
                    for the New Purchase. He had probably met Maxwell during the war, and during the
                    convention both men usually voted in the negative with the federalist
                        minority.28 These individuals were also land
                    speculators. Two years after the convention, Parke became Monroe
                        County's sales agent and a speculator in
                            Bloomington town lots. Lindley was an early
                    land purchaser in Monroe County, a speculator in several
                    counties, and a promoter of nearby Paoli in
                            Orange
                            County.
                Lindley, Parke, and Noble immediately designated the reserved land: township
                    eight, range one west of the second meridian (T8 R1), in the region that two
                    years later would be organized as Monroe County. On
                    the same day, the committee members began the process of obtaining official
                    approval for the reserve. They wrote to the registers of the Vincennes land
                    office, John Badollet and Nathaniel Ewing, who were in Corydon because Badollet was a member of the
                    convention. The next day, Badollet and Ewing wrote to President James Madison
                    and Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Dallas in Washington. On July 15, Josiah Meigs at the
                    general land office replied that Dallas had directed him "to inform you
                    that the President ... has approved of the designation, you will therefore
                    reserve that township for the use of a seminary of learning."29
                The convention's education committee acted separately and, in their drafted
                    Article IX, projected a statewide system of public education. The article was
                    the work of Badollet, the committee's visionary chairman, who used
                            New Hampshire's constitution as his
                    precedent. Although Maxwell was not involved in drafting the article, his
                    granddaughter Louise would later describe him as "an active participant in
                    the framing of a constitution," a man to whom "vision had come,"
                    and of whom "it is known from his subsequent life that Article IX lay
                    nearest to his heart."30
                    
                        28See Constantine, ed., "Minutes of the Board
                            of Trustees," 348; J. P Dunn, ed., Slavery Petitions
                                and Papers (Indiana Historical Publications,
                            vol. 2, no. 12, Indianapolis, 1894),
                            477, 509. Parke had apparently reversed his position by the time of
                            statehood. See Carmony, ed., "Journal of the Convention,"
                            124.
                        29Josiah Meigs to John Badollet and Nathaniel
                            Ewing, July 15, 1816, in Carter, ed., Territorial
                                Papers, vol. 8, Indiana, 437. When Banta
                            wrote his 1889 lecture, he constructed a narrative in which President
                            Madison personally pondered the 1812 surveyor's notes and selected
                            the site for the university; according to Banta, the enabling act and
                            the presidential selection formed "the germ of Indiana
                            University." In fact, Madison merely signed off on the
                            commissioners' selection. Banta, "The Seminary Period,"
                            in Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                            3-25.
                        30Louise Maxwell, "Sketch of Dr. David H.
                            Maxwell," Indiana Magazine of History, 8
                            (September 1912), 104; reprinted in Florence Wilson Houston, et al., Maxwell History and Genealogy (Indianapolis, 1916), 95.
                    
                     This is an unwarranted construction: the
                    convention's record does not support such a claim for a delegate who
                    consistently voted in the negative, and Maxwell sat on the committee on general
                    provisions.
                In its final form, the constitution's education article was complex. It gave
                    a future general assembly "the duty ... as soon as circumstances will
                    permit, to provide by law for a general system of education, ascending in a
                    regular gradation, from township schools to a state university, wherein tuition
                    shall be gratis, and equally open to all." The convention also reflected
                    the prevailing rationale for public education: "Knowledge and
                    learning" were "essential to the preservation of a free government,
                    and spreading the opportunities and advantages of education through the various
                    parts of the country [was] highly conducive to this end." The document also
                    recommended that the legislature encourage "the promotion and improvement
                    of arts, sciences, commerce, manufactures, and natural history."31 One can infer from the phrase "ascending in a
                    regular gradation" that the convention assumed future legislatures would
                    first establish township schools—public schools—throughout "the various
                    parts" of the state. The original draft of the constitution said nothing
                    about a seminary, but the convention members made amendments. Article IX had
                    read that "no lands granted for the use of schools, shall be sold by the
                    authority of this state, prior to" an unnamed year. The convention
                    delegates filled in "1820," and the article was "further amended,
                    by adding, after the word 'schools,' these words, 'or seminaries
                    of learning.'"32
                At first, Gov. Jonathan Jennings supported the convention's mandate in
                    Jeffersonian terms. In his first message to the state legislature on November 7,
                    1816, he proclaimed the "dissemination of useful knowledge" to be
                    "indispensably necessary as a support to morals and as a restraint to
                    vice" and urged "the plan of education as prescribed by the
                    constitution." A year later he asked specifically for "a system of
                    common schools throughout the inhabited portion of our state" so that all
                    citizens might be able to educate their children "to estimate the value of
                    our free institutions. "33
                
                    31Carmony, ed., "Journal of the Convention,"
                        142-43; Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 456.
                    32Carmony, ed., "Journal of the Convention,"
                        146; Constitution of 1816, Article IX, in Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional
                            Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical Notes, vol. 1,
                        1780-1851 (Indianapolis, 1916),
                        113. 33Logan Esarey, ed., Governors
                            Messages and Letters, Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff
                            Boon, William Hendricks (Indianapolis, 1924), 34, 42.
                
                
                In January 1818, the legislature organized Monroe County, as
                    far north as the ten o'clock line, and Governor Jennings appointed John W.
                    Lee as sheriff.34 Commissioners (who had been named in the
                    act forming the county) repurchased a quarter section of land from David Rogers
                    for $1,200 because it was "the most eligible and convenient place" for
                    the county seat.35 On April 10, they laid out the town,
                    which they named Bloomington, and land in the
                    vicinity began to increase in value. In October, special commissioners Jonathan
                    Jennings, Benjamin Parke, and Lewis Cass concluded the agreements by which
                    native tribes relinquished claim to the central part of Indiana north of the ten o'clock line, agreements
                    collectively known as the New Purchase. After the Purchase opened for
                    settlement, a small area was added to Monroe County in
                    1821, squaring off its northern border. The Purchase created a problem for land
                    speculators, for settlers were bound to prefer Indiana's
                    northern expanses of flat, fertile land rather than Monroe
                        County's broken landscape36
                With 
                            Bloomington established, the county
                    commissioners appointed Parke as agent to sell town lots. The county seat lay
                    only one-half-mile north of the seminary township that he had helped select two
                    years earlier. Parke advertised the first sale—to take place June 22, 1818—in
                    newspapers at Vincennes,
                            Madison, Cincinnati,
                    and Louisville. Frontier agents generally spoke in
                    superlative terms, and Parke proved no exception when he wrote of
                            Bloomington:  [I]ts
                        situation is handsome, high and healthy, in a settlement of land of the
                        finest quality and springs of the best water in this State. In a commercial
                        point of view the prospect is truly pleasing, at a period not far distant,
                        the surplus produce of this county must be great, and can be conveyed by
                        means of Salt Creek
                        (which runs within 6 or 7 miles of this place) into the [White River's] east fork,
                        at a distance of 12 miles.... It is believed ... that the seat of [state]
                        Government will be here; and what place can be held in equal estimation with
                        this for the State university, which promises health to keep pace with
                            education.37
                    
                        34Blanchard, Monroe County,
                            372.
                        35Ibid., 373-74.
                        36Ibid., 381-82.
                        37[Vincennes, Indiana]
                                Western Sun and General Advertiser, May 16,
                            1818.
                    
                     The town lay atop rolling strata of
                    limestone, higher and less prone to malaria than the land along riverbanks but
                    an area of thin soil and inadequate water. Parke had to be familiar with the
                    prairies surrounding Vincennes and would have realized that Monroe
                        County's broken landscape was not comparable. Its
                    terrain was too rugged for roads to carry heavy grain wagons. The unnavigable
                        Salt Creek was miles
                    distant and emptied into the East Fork of the White River, a usually shallow and unreliable
                    tributary to the Wabash. The curious references to the state capital and
                    "the State University" suggest that Parke and others may have
                    discussed amongst themselves forward notions of the town's future.
                    Nonetheless, Parke's sale of Bloomington
                    lots was a success. Receipts totaled $14,326.85, an "enormous sum,"
                    buyers perhaps encouraged by the commissioners having authorized Parke to
                    provide a barrel of whiskey for the convenience of bidders.38 Although Parke speculated in town lots, after the Vincennes bank
                    collapsed he retired to Salem, twenty miles north of the
                    Falls of the Ohio,
                    ignoring "handsome, high and healthy" Bloomington.
                One of the land purchasers was Edward Maxwell of Madison, brother of David, for whom he may have
                    made a purchase. In 1818, Edward moved to the lot he purchased at
                            Bloomington but within the year was residing
                    again in Madison. His interest in the town was probably
                    due to his acquaintance with wartime rangers who were taking up land. David
                    moved his family a year later, arriving in May 1819. The historical record
                    yields no reason as to why the Madison banker,
                    ranger, and general naysayer during the constitutional convention, left the Ohio
                    River commercial town for the frontier settlement of Bloomington.39
                At this point, David Maxwell begins to dominate the story of the charter. A
                    native of Kentucky, as a young man he had studied medicine
                    in Danville with the well-known Ephraim McDowell.40 In 1809
                    he emigrated with his new wife and a female slave to the Indiana Territory and
                    settled a blufftop homestead in Jefferson County
                    overlooking the Ohio.41
                    
                        38Blanchard, Monroe County,
                            453.
                        39Houston, et al., Maxwell History
                                and Genealogy, 96.
                        40On McDowell, see Madge E. Pickard and R. Carlyle
                            Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His Ills, Cures, and
                                Doctors (New
                                    York, 1946), 115-16; Maxwell does not
                            appear in this survey.
                        41As a member of the constitutional convention,
                            Maxwell voted against a resolution "that no alteration of this
                            constitution ought ever to take place, so as to introduce slavery or
                            involuntary servitude in this state, otherwise than for the punishment
                            of crimes." Carmony, ed., "Journal of the Convention,"
                            124.
                    
                    
                    
                        David H. Maxwell, c. 1850. Both a trustee and a president of the board,
                            Maxwell was also the primary early proponent of the theory that the
                            founders of the Bloomington seminary
                            had always intended that it evolve into a college and then into a
                            university.
                        Courtesy Indiana University Archives, Bloomington
                    
                     He later moved to Madison, a few miles away, but apparently
                    practiced little medicine there. When a smallpox epidemic struck
                            Madison in the winter of 1817-1818, and
                    residents met to devise "some means to protect the citizens against the
                    contagious influence of the small pox," Maxwell took no part in the meeting
                    nor did he serve on the committee elected to manage the crisis.42
                Maxwell left Madison without advertising that he was
                    closing a practice, although other physicians routinely published such
                    announcements to encourage settlement of accounts.43 His
                    silence may be attributed to another one of his business interests. In 1814, the
                    territorial legislature had chartered banks at Vincennes and Madison, and
                    Maxwell purchased shares in Madison's Farmers and Mechanics Bank.44 The legislature revised the law in 1817 and allowed the
                            Madison bank to become a branch of the
                            Vincennes bank, now a "state bank."
                    Pioneer Indiana did not require many banks—there was
                    little circulating currency and even less commerce.45 The
                    law "commissioned" Maxwell and two others to take subscriptions for
                    the Madison branch, and they opened the books on
                    April 1, 1817, at the Farmers and Mechanics Bank office.46
                    The bank already had difficulty making specie payments, a problem across the
                    country and a symptom of the approaching nationwide financial panic.
                    Nonetheless, the following summer the banks in Madison and Vincennes
                    paid eight-percent dividends to shareholders.47 When the
                    spreading panic reached the Ohio Valley, Madison was one
                    of the least depressed places in Indiana and its
                    bank did not collapse (although Parke's Vincennes
                    bank did). Nonetheless, Maxwell was summoned before the Madison township justice of the peace in September
                    1818, although the summons does not indicate the reason.48
                    He closed his 
                        42[Madison] Indiana Republican,
                            January 31, 1818.
                        43For an example, see ibid.
                        44Receipts for bank stocks, October 1, 1814, and
                            May 4, 1816, box 1, 1811-1837, Maxwell Manuscripts, Lilly Library,
                            Indiana University, Bloomington.
                        45Logan Esarey, "The First Indiana
                            Banks," Indiana Magazine of History, 6 (December
                            1910), 146-47; Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850,
                            17-24.
                        46Indiana Republican, April 5,
                            1817.
                        47Ibid., March 6, and July 10, 1817.
                        48Summons, September 25, 1818, Maxwell Mss.
                            Maxwell's papers are not extensive, thus it is interesting that he
                            preserved this summons.
                    
                     affairs and removed to Monroe
                        County, where his brother had so recently purchased a
                    town lot.
                What Maxwell found at Bloomington in May 1819 was a
                    year-old settlement quite unlike Madison. The
                    population may have been one hundred and fifty. During the 1820s, there were few
                    stores, no roads, and occasional mail deliveries to Vincennes. Only a portion of the county was
                    suitable for agriculture. If some woodland-based businesses developed, the
                    village nevertheless failed to become a commercial location, even into the
                    1830s, due to the lack of transportation links to the national economy.49 Upon arrival, Maxwell helped organize a Presbyterian
                    church, and he resumed his medical practice but not banking.
                In his late nineteenth-century history of the county, Charles Blanchard remarked
                    on Bloomington's "phenomenal"
                    settlement and growth and asked why in June 1818 lots should have sold
                    "very high, considering the unsettled condition of the country." He
                    suggested "it was known that Bloomington
                    was destined to be a great educational center," perhaps expanding upon the
                    salesman's gambit in Parke's advertisement.50 This
                    is where Maxwell enters the story, for he unofficially attended the December
                    1819—January 1820 legislative session at Corydon,
                    specifically to lobby for an educational institution. Banta wrote that the new
                    county did not have its own representative and that "the people determined
                    to have an agent from Bloomington on the ground - a
                    member of the Third House, if you will." This was another of the
                    judge's ahistorical constructions, for he imagined "the people"
                    selected Maxwell, although he admitted there was "no record ... not even a
                    tradition ... of any meeting."51 Maxwell had lived in
                    the town only a few months but apparently had the confidence of its leaders,
                    some of them wartime rangers, and they may have considered the
                    educational-center notion among themselves. Thomas D. Clark, Indiana
                    University's sesquicentennial historian, astutely observed of
                    Maxwell's 
                        49Bloomington did not have a connection with
                            the southern Indiana region, let alone the
                            nation, until after 1853, when the north-south New Albany and Salem
                            Railroad built its single-track, accident-prone line through
                                    Monroe County towards its terminus at
                                    Michigan City,
                            which proprietors estimated would become the metropolis of the Great
                            Lakes. At the end of the century, the line was known as "the
                            Monon." There was no direct railroad to Indianapolis until 1907.
                        50Blanchard, Monroe County,
                            455-57.
                        51Banta, "Seminary Period," in Woodburn,
                                History of Indiana University, 7.
                    
                     attendance at the legislature: "Laws
                    and public policy decisions were one part conscientious efforts at statesmanship
                    and two parts pressure and personal nudgings by shrewd and self-interested
                    lobbyists." Maxwell understood that locating a state-chartered institution
                    in Monroe
                            County would be, as Clark also noted, "a
                    tremendous advantage to those owning property in this area."52 The sentiment was a common one, of course. Timothy L. Smith
                    observes that many nineteenth-century colleges, even those grounded in idealism,
                    combined "the desire for learning with the town-booster's interest in
                    the sale of 'city' lots and nearby farmlands."53
                Governor Jennings played an important role in creating the seminary as an
                    institution apart from Vincennes, for the legislature
                    had the option of supporting the moribund Vincennes University with the new
                    township. A dozen years earlier, as a new arrival in the territory, Jennings had
                    been appointed clerk to the Vincennes trustees. Factions on the university board
                    divided between federalists, such as Governor Harrison and Parke, and
                    republicans, such as Badollet and Ewing. Jennings was a republican whom Harrison
                    had maneuvered out of office, and he was thereafter hostile to the governor and
                    to the Vincennes university. The squabble between the
                    two men had consequences as the years passed, when Jennings became the
                    territory's congressional delegate, then president of the constitutional
                    convention, and finally the state's first governor. Dorothy Riker, making
                    careful use of terms, has concluded that "the later location of the state
                    seminary at Bloomington instead of at
                            Vincennes may have resulted from this
                        animosity."54
                Parke's association with Governor Jennings in 1820 was probably a pragmatic
                    one. As a member of the Vincennes University board, Parke, along with other
                    trustees, had unsuccessfully sought congressional approval to sell the reserved
                            Gibson
                            County township and deposit the proceeds in the
                            Vincennes bank-in which board members happened
                    to own stock. When their bank failed in the panic of 1819, Parke was 
                        52Clark, Indiana University,
                            vol. 1, 29.
                        53A proponent for placing the Illinois State
                            Normal University at the town of Bloomington, Illinois, in 1857 said simply "that an
                            educational institution was the best bait for the prospective purchaser
                            of town lots." Quoted in Timothy L. Smith, "Uncommon Schools:
                            Christian Colleges and Social Idealism in Midwestern America,
                            1820-1950," in The History of Education in the
                                Middle West (Indianapolis, 1978), 24-30.
                        54Dorothy Riker, "Jonathan Jennings,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, 28 (September
                            1932), 227.
                    
                     already associated with the reserved
                    township in Monroe County and probably saw advantages in a seminary charter.55
                Speculation and politics, as the phrase has it, were inextricably intertwined.
                    Jennings's address to the legislature on December 7, 1819, suggests
                    Maxwell's influence. The governor's addresses to prior sessions had
                    urged enactment of the constitution's mandate to establish common schools,
                    an obvious need, but in 1819 he emphasized a remotely located seminary, a less
                    obvious need. Other matters in that panic year might have seemed more important
                    than a state seminary. The governor described "the situation of the country
                    at large" as "embarrassed" and implied that the state
                    "required more of the fostering interposition of legislative support."
                    Yet he recommended the seminary as a legislative priority. In terms reflecting
                    Maxwell's views, he recommended that "the seminary township, situated
                    in Monroe
                            County, would afford a site combining the
                    advantages of fertility of soil with a healthy climate, as well as a position
                    sufficiently central to the various sections of the State." Here was
                    another construction of historical truth: the township was to provide funds for
                    an educational institution but was not required to be that institution's
                    site. Perhaps revealing the reasoning behind the recommendation, the governor
                    candidly noted that "the location of such institution upon or near such
                    lands, would ... greatly enhance their value."56
                Shortly after Jennings's address, Rep. Samuel Chambers of Orange
                        County, whose district included Monroe
                        County, presented "the petition of Addison Smith,
                    and others, praying that the State University may be located in the county of
                            Monroe."57 Previous
                    accounts of the seminary's origins have not mentioned the petition, but
                    Chambers's involvement indicates that, contrary to Banta's assertion,
                            Monroe
                            County's interests were well represented.
                    During the session, Chambers introduced a bill "for the relief of certain
                    lessors in Monroe county," and he amended another bill
                    to establish a road from New
                        Albany to Bloomington
                    and Terre
                            Haute.58 Smith's
                    original petition does not survive, so the signers' 
                        55Constantine, ed., "Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees," 313-64; Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850,
                            20.
                        56Esarey, ed., Governors Messages and
                                Letters, Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon,
                                William Hendricks, 73, 78.
                        57Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives (Corydon, 1820), 48.
                        58bid., 203, 314.
                    
                     names are not known, but Smith was a man of
                    parts, a Bloomington landowner and its sales agent at
                    the time. The petition represented landowners who realized that the legislature
                    could locate an institution anywhere in the state and use the Monroe
                        County township for its maintenance. Instead, they
                    sought by law to locate the institution on the reserved township next to
                            Bloomington.59
                The bill moved through the house of representatives, where Maxwell's
                    brother-in-law, Judge Dunn, presided as speaker. The house resolved to refer to
                    a committee "so much of the Governor's message as related to a general
                    system of education, and the reserved township of land in Monroe
                        county." On December 31, 1819, the committee
                    reported that it had written a bill "to establish a State
                    Seminary"—not, it should be noted, a university, as mentioned in
                    Parke's advertisement and Smith's petition. On January 14, 1820, the
                    house passed the bill, eighteen to nine.60
                The bill encountered difficulty in the senate, and the delayed vote resulted in a
                    tie. Presiding officer Lt. Gov. Ratliff Boon, whom Jennings influenced, voted
                    with the ayes. Passed with a one-vote margin and signed by the governor, the law
                    was hardly a ringing endorsement for a seminary in the wilderness. Maxwell and
                    friends, however, now had authority to place the institution on the reserved
                    township as a support for the development of Bloomington.61
                The charter to establish an Indiana seminary contained no
                    preamble comparable to the Ohio statutes of 1804 and 1809
                    establishing Ohio and Miami Universities. Those statutes had declared that
                    "institutions for the liberal education of youth, are essential to the
                    progress of arts and sciences."62 The
                            Indiana constitution contained a rationale for a
                    general system of education—eventually including a university—but the lack of a
                    philosophical preamble implied an absence of familiarity with American colleges.
                    Cutler and others in Ohio were college men; Maxwell and his
                    fellow 1820 Indiana trustees were not.
                
                    59Carmony claimed that the township was placed
                        "at the edge of the infant village of Bloomington," but in fact
                                Bloomington in 1818 was
                        placed at the edge of the township selected two years earlier. Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850, 396.
                    60Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives (1820), 183, 294.
                    61Indiana, Journal of the Senate
                                (Corydon, 1820), 196, 199-201, 226,
                        243.
                    62Acts of the State of Ohio, Second
                            Session of the General Assembly (1901; Chillicothe, Ohio,
                        1803), 193.
                
                
                The Indiana Seminary Charter, without defining a seminary or declaring its
                    purpose, did enumerate procedures. Section one stipulated that "Charles
                    Dewey, Jonathan Lindley, David H. Maxwell, John W. Jenkins, Jonathan Nichols,
                    and William Lowe, be...appointed trustees." Unfortunately, at least three
                    of the trustees were in probable conflict of interest with their responsibility
                    to select a site for the benefit of the entire state: Lindley possessed
                            Monroe
                            County interests, Maxwell owned lots in the county,
                    and Jonathan Nichols was town surveyor and speculator. Section two required
                    trustees to "meet at Bloomington" and then
                    "repair to the reserved township ... for the use of a seminary of learning,
                    and proceed to select an eligible and convenient site." The act now
                    required that the institution be built on the reserved township, even though the
                    township's purpose had originally been to raise revenue through sales and
                    rents for the institution's benefit. Section five authorized "a
                    suitable building" to be supplied by revenues from the reserved
                        township.63
                In June 1820, the trustees met at Bloomington, established but two years earlier, to
                    select the seminary site.64 Two members were absent and the
                    board postponed the decision. In July they reconvened, one member absent, and
                    "proceeded forthwith to the reserved township," a short stroll south
                    of the village. As they reported to the legislature, they did not examine the
                    entire township but merely designated the two half-sections "most
                    contiguous to Bloomington." The
                    so-called "seminary township" T8 R1 adjoins Bloomington's T9 R1, about four hundred yards
                    directly south of the town square. The trustees did not select a single complete
                    section but two half sections near the village's southern boundary. In a
                    final action, they appointed another ranger and landowner, James Borland, as
                    agent and surveyor for the seminary. They described the site as "on a
                    beautiful eminence, and convenient to an excellent spring of water, the only one
                    on the section selected that could with convenience answer the purposes of the
                        seminary."65 The eminence was merely a rise along a
                    creek, which over the years flooded about half of 
                        63Laws of the State of Indiana
                                    (Jeffersonville,
                            1820), 82.
                        64Lisa C. Tolbert indicates that in
                                    Tennessee, colleges were
                            planted in well-established towns. Tolbert, Constructing
                                Townscapes: Space and Society in Antebellum Tennessee
                            (Chapel
                                    Hill, N.
                                C., 1999), 143-51, 178-84. See also Diane Shaw,
                                City Building on the Eastern Frontier: Sorting the New
                                Nineteenth-Century City (Baltimore, Md.,
                            2004), 11-13.
                        65Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives (Corydon, 1821), 105-106.
                    
                     the site—one reason to move to a new
                    location in 1885. Another three or four hundred yards east and west stood small
                    hills, impressive sites on which buildings might have been erected; the Indiana
                    College's first president, Wylie, built a fine house on one of the
                    hillsides that overlooked town and campus. Banta excused the trustees for not
                    selecting a better site, explaining that the summer landscape was
                    "enveloped in shaggy thickets of green."66
                At this point Maxwell revealed his political guile. His trustees' report
                    began by quoting the constitution's ninth article: the state should
                    establish "a general system of education, ascending in regular gradation,
                    from township schools to a state university." A member of the
                    constitutional convention but not of the education committee, Maxwell
                    nevertheless proceeded to deconstruct that committee's work and alter its
                    meaning. He wrote: "[T]he constitution of our state contemplates this
                    institution as gradually rising from the humble grade of a seminary, in which
                    the elementary parts of an education can be had, to that of a full grown
                    university, in which everything appertaining to science shall be
                        taught."67 The constitution had not, as we have
                    seen, contemplated the seminary charter; the seminary charter had not
                    contemplated the university. Maxwell had, in the phrase of a later time, pulled
                    a fast one.
                In 1822, the legislature received a report from David Caswell of the committee
                    "to prepare a bill for a regular system of education." The report,
                    which makes clear that the legislature did not contemplate the seminary's
                    rise to a university, is "one of the truly fascinating documents in
                    American social and cultural history," according to Clark.68 It is as thoughtful, long-range, and bereft of speculative concerns
                    as Maxwell's report is narrow and self-serving. Caswell directed most of
                    his extensive report to the development of township common schools throughout
                    the state. His committee proposed a statewide system in accord with Article IX
                    of the constitution, and township schools were the obvious need. Not until the
                    end of the long report did Caswell mention the word university: "With
                    regard to an University for the state, your committee 
                        66Banta, "The Seminary Period," in
                            Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 11. Banta
                            was, of course, involved in selecting the site of the new campus in
                            1883. The university maintains the Wylie House as a museum.
                        67Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives (1821), 106.
                        68Clark, Indiana University,
                            vol. 1, 25-26.
                    
                     recommend the passage of a law for
                    establishing it, to be known by the name of the University of
                        Indiana, and that a board of trustees be selected with great care, and
                    appointed by law to superintend its interest." The state's two
                    existing "college townships" in Gibson and
                            Monroe Counties, he continued, would support the
                    future institution. Caswell's committee projected a system of education
                    consistent with the constitution's mandate, beginning with township common
                    schools and eventually including a state university that the legislature would
                    charter as a university and place in the hands of qualified trustees.69 The report does not draw the seminary into the proposed
                    system but ignores it entirely.
                By 1828, only three years after the seminary began teaching a dozen boys, David
                    Maxwell could persuade legislators that the 1816 constitution had contemplated
                    both the 1820 seminary charter and the school's rise to a collegiate
                    institution. His narrative inserted the institution into the very origins of the
                    state and linked constitution, seminary, and college into a seamless
                    development. His narrative also made a university in Bloomington seem inevitable, and its later removal
                    to Indianapolis unthinkable. Much in the spirit
                    of Parson Weems, Maxwell constructed a story that privileged his narrative, and
                    in turn his narrative truth became the daughter of time.
                When Banta searched for Indiana University's origins in the late 1880s, he
                    remembered Maxwell's narrative, which he further arranged to say that the
                    legislature (not the constitutional convention) had planted the germ for the
                    university. He elaborated that President Madison personally selected the
                    reserved township in 1816, thus disguising the forward role of the committee of
                    the constitutional convention. Banta may not have believed it necessary to
                    promote Caswell's work, for he had almost certainly heard the prevailing
                    story during his student days from Maxwell himself, and later, for decades, from
                    Maxwell's son James.
                Maxwell's narrative of necessity ignored the Caswell report, but in 1822
                    most legislators doubtlessly believed that, as the report outlined, a future
                    legislature would locate the University of Indiana in newly planned
                            Indianapolis, which in 1825 became the seat of
                    government. For nearly a century Bloomington
                    feared the legislature would move the university to the capital, loading it on
                    so many railway flatcars and 
                        69Indiana, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives (New
                                Albany, 1822), 128-49.
                    
                     hauling it away, as someone in the 1880s
                    speculated. Indeed, Alexander Ralston's 1821 mile-square plan for
                            Indianapolis platted locations for the
                    statehouse, county courthouse, public market, governor's mansion, and state
                    university. Carmony observed that it was "remarkable ... how closely
                            Indianapolis developed much as platted,"
                    but he curiously omitted the university square from the list of elements in
                    Ralston's design.70 Today, nearly two hundred years
                    later, the square is University Park, an otherwise obscurely named green space
                    and a quiet reminder of those pioneers who thought carefully about the
                    state's educational future.
                Thereby, as some historians like to say, hangs another story.71
                
                    70Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850, 110,
                        114. No governor lived in the house built in Governor's Circle, which
                        later became Monument Circle.
                    71For example, Ellis, His Excellency
                            George Washington, 275.
                
            
            
            
                The Klan's Retribution Against an Indiana Editor
                A Reconsideration
                RON E SMITH
                In the 1920s, the Indiana Ku Klux Klan had nearly 300,000 members,
                    including a governor, legislators, mayors, city council members, prosecutors,
                    judges, sheriffs, and police.1 On July 4, 1923, the
                    organization held a Konklave in Kokomo's
                    Malfalya Park. One hundred thousand people—more than three times the population
                    of the city—enjoyed the daylong picnic. They listened to speeches; watched
                    circus acts, boxing matches, and pie-eating contests; and were awed by elaborate
                    parades capped off by a gigantic fireworks display and the burning of 25
                        crosses.2
                
                    Ron E Smith is a professor of journalism in the Nicholson School of
                        Communication, University of Central Florida, Orlando. He wishes to thank John Straw and his
                        staff in the Archives and Special Projects Department of the Ball State
                        University Library, which has extensive collections about Dale and the
                        Indiana Klan.
                    1Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The
                            Ku Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921-1928 (Chapel
                            Hill, N.C.,
                        1991), 47. Moore acknowledges the difficulty of estimating how many people
                        belonged to the secret society and notes that other writers have offered
                        different estimates.
                    2Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 76-77; and
                        Kathleen M. Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism and Gender in the
                            1920s (Berkeley, Calif., 1991), 135-36. Several accounts of the
                        Konklave have been written, and estimates of attendance vary widely: Moore
                        estimates 100,000; Blee offers a range from 50,000 to 200,000; the Klan put
                        the number at 200,000, which some other writers have accepted as
                        possible.
                
                
                By and large, Indiana's newspapers either welcomed the Klan
                    into their communities or avoided discussing the organization altogether.3 But a handful of editors opposed the Klan. Among them,
                    Muncie's George R. Dale and his Post-Democrat were
                    notable for engaging in an all-out editorial war with the hooded order and its
                    3,000 local members,4 exposing its secret membership rolls
                    and ridiculing its silly rituals and anti-Catholic rhetoric.
                Although Dale's crusade against the KKK was undeniably courageous and
                    justified, some accounts of the Klan's acts of retribution against him have
                    been embellished so greatly that they oversimplify Dale's relationship with
                    his community and mask his real accomplishments. Many of the embellishments can
                    be traced to efforts to rally support for the embattled editor; others are the
                    result of later observers misunderstanding the nature of the 1920s Indiana
                    Klan.
                Dale's fight against the Klan gained national media attention in 1923, after
                    he accused Delaware County Circuit Court Judge Clarence Dearth of being a
                    Klansman. He further charged that Dearth had illegally stacked juries to favor
                    Klan defendants and had given light sentences to Klansmen convicted in his
                    court. In response to the articles in the Post-Democrat, the
                    judge found Dale in indirect contempt of court in March 1923, sentenced him to
                    90 days in jail and a $500 fine, and told the left-leaning editor that if he
                    didn't like America he should move to Russia.
                    Dale's comments about his court hearing, published in the next week's
                    paper, so angered the judge that he found Dale in direct contempt and doubled
                    his jail time.5
                Dale appealed his case to the Indiana Supreme Court, which rejected his defense
                    that publishing truthful information about a government official could not be
                    deemed contempt of court. Journalists throughout 
                        3See Bradford W Scharlott, "The Hoosier
                            Newsman and the Hooded Order: Indiana Press Reaction to the Ku Klux Klan
                            in the 1920s," paper presented to the annual meeting of the
                            Association for Education in Journalism, August 1979,
                                    Houston,
                                    Texas; Allen Safianow, "The Klan
                            Comes to Tipton," Indiana Magazine of History, 95
                            (September 1999), 203-231, describes the generally positive treatment
                            given to the Klan by the Tipton [Indiana] Daily
                            Tribune.
                        4Carrolyle Frank, "Politics in Middletown: A
                            Reconsideration of Municipal Government and Community Power in Muncie,
                            Indiana 1925-1935" (Ph.D. diss., Ball State University, 1974).
                            Others have estimated a larger membership for Muncie's Klan Number Four.
                        5Dale was released on bond after 11 days in prison
                            when the Indiana Supreme Court agreed to hear his case. Ironically, Dale
                            was later pardoned by Indiana Gov. Ed Jackson,
                            himself a Klansman.
                    
                    
                    
                        George R. Dale and his family. Dale posed with his wife and six of his
                            children for this newpaper photo, which accompanied a story on his
                            opposition to the Muncie Klan and on lawsuits pending against him.
                        New York World, July 26, 1926
                     the nation saw the court's opinion as a rejection of the First
                    Amendment and of principles recognized in America since the colonial
                    trial of John Peter Zenger. Newspapers, including the Hearst chain, the New York World, and the Chicago Tribune,
                    published editorials calling the ruling an injustice. These newspapers
                    emphasized that the costly three-year legal battle over the convictions had
                    drained Dale's savings. They encouraged their readers to contribute to
                    Dale's legal defense fund, and scores did.
                Sympathetic newspaper accounts tended to concentrate on freedom-of-the-press
                    issues. But many added to the drama by repeating  stories of a beating that Dale and his son had
                    reportedly received by Klansmen on March 24, 1922, and of shots being fired into
                    his house in 1926. The stories left the impression that, as the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette reported, things "went smoothly"
                    for Dale and the Post-Democrat "until the Ku Klux Klan
                    descended on the city seeking converts.... Dale attacked the [K]lan
                    editorially—attacked it with courage and bitterness. He was told to be careful
                    but he refused. Accordingly, he met with adventure [the beating] a few nights
                    later." The Baltimore Sun described the lead-up to the
                    beating with the same tone: "Dale turned his attention to the Klan, the
                    organizers of which were enrolling citizens so fast that they ran out of
                    nightgowns three times. His pen drips vitriol as he writes and there is no
                    polite reading in his editorials. So the Klan decided he must be
                        disciplined."6 H. L. Mencken's American Mercury reported that "[t]hree times emissaries of the
                    klan had waylaid Dale and thrashed him thoroughly. Once they included his young
                    son in the castigation."7 Dale's 1936 obituary in
                    the New York Times, published after his death at age 69,
                    stated: "In his fight against the Klan, Mr. Dale was slugged and beaten and
                    his dwelling was stoned and fired upon."8
                    Time magazine's obituary repeated many of the same
                        stories.9
                Something of a showman, Dale contributed to this heroic image. As donations were
                    being sought to defray his legal fees, he portrayed himself as a victim of Klan
                    attacks and claimed to have killed a Klansman—who Dale said was a prominent
                            Muncie citizen—during the 1922 attack. He even
                    re-enacted the encounter for Chicago
                    newspaper photographers, and the pictures appeared in several newspapers. He
                    took to wearing a hat with a bullet hole, presumably to demonstrate the poor aim
                    of a trigger-happy Klansman.10 Hanging on his living room wall
                    were the masks he said his attackers wore. He called them "Klucker
                    scalps."
                Dale himself made appeals for contributions to his legal defense fund in Post-Democrat stories, in letters to fellow editors, and in
                        
                        6Clippings from the Baltimore
                                Sun and the News-Gazette are posted on the
                            Dale Family website in Dale's scrapbook,
                            http://www.dickdale.us/History/George%20R%20Dale/GRD.HTM (Accessed
                            February 2, 2010).
                        7W. A. S. Douglas, "The Mayor of
                            Middletown," The American Mercury, 20 (August
                            1930), 479.
                        8"George Dale Dies; Ku Klux Klan Foe,"
                                New York Times, March 28, 1936, p. 15.
                        9"Milestones," Time,
                            April 6, 1936.
                        10Douglas, "The Mayor of Middletown,"
                            479, 481.
                    
                     leaflets.11 He blamed
                    his financial and personal problems on his struggle against the Klan. "I
                    lost my advertising, most of my subscribers, my home, my liberty, and every
                    dollar I had in the world," he wrote.12
                These tales of the Klan's retribution against Dale's editorials have
                    been repeated by sociologists, historians, and other writers. In Middletown in Transition, sociologists Robert and Helen Lynd praised
                    Dale's "almost single-handed" fight against the Klan and wrote
                    that "Klansmen waylaid him three times, beating him and twice attempting to
                    shoot him."13 In his well-researched biography of D. C.
                    Stephenson, Indiana Klan Grand Dragon, William Lutholtz wrote, "Dale was
                    beaten and his son was pistol-whipped, the Klan's crude way of sending a
                    message regarding his editorial policies."14 In
                    thoughtful discussions of Dale's years as Muncie mayor, Carrolyle Frank has offered a more
                    nuanced version of the Klan's role in the attack: "After Dale's
                    efforts to link the Williams [political] machine to the Klan and to associate
                    both organizations with lawlessness and vice, the zealous editor was attacked
                    physically in broad daylight by hooded thugs in March, 1922. Intimidation
                    through violence failed to silence the plucky editor as he began publishing the
                    Klan roster in the Post-Democrat."15
                There can be little doubt that the Klan contributed to Dale's problemsl6 and that the cost of appealing his contempt convictions
                    through 
                        11At one time, Dale had four other cases in the
                            courts, including some brought by a prosecutor who later left the law to
                            become a full-time Klan organizer.
                        12George Dale, "Narrative of Events Which Led
                            To the Dale Contempt Proceedings," undated leaflet, box 1, Series
                            4: Printed Materials, George R. Dale Papers, Archives and Special
                            Collections, Ball State University Libraries, Muncie, Indiana
                            (hereafter Dale Papers). Dale also wrote about what the Klan had cost
                            him personally; see Muncie Post-Democrat, January 18,
                            1924, and July 23, 1925 (hereafter Post-Democrat).
                        13Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, Middletown in Transition: A Study in Cultural
                                Conflicts (New York, 1937),
                            323.
                        14M. William Lutholtz, Grand Dragon: D.C. Stephenson and the Ku Klux Klan in Indiana
                                    (West Lafayette,
                                    Ind., 1991), 78.
                        15Carrolyle M. Frank, "Muncie Politics:
                            George R. Dale, Municipal Reformer, 1921-1936," in Conspectus of History, 1977: Cities in History, eds. Dwight W
                            Hoover and John T. A. Koumoulides (Muncie,
                                    Ind., 1977), 35. Billy Williams was a
                            long-time leader in the Delaware County Republican Party. Dale accused
                            him of having ties with the Klan, bootleggers, and corrupt
                            officials.
                        16At one time, in addition to the two contempt
                            cases, Dale was involved in four other suits, some brought by a county
                            prosecutor who later quit the law to become a full-time Klan
                            organizer.
                    
                     the Indiana courts to
                    the United States Supreme Court would have exhausted the resources of a
                    small-town weekly editor. Yet many of the accounts of the physical and financial
                    problems Dale suffered at the hands of the Klan are, at best, questionable.
                The impression that Dale was living a peaceful, prosperous life until the Klan
                    came to town is not accurate. The editor found himself under both economic and
                    physical attack well before Muncie residents were donning
                    white sheets and hoods in late 1921 or 1922.17 Within months
                    of founding the Post-Democrat in 1920, Dale wrote that because
                    of his investigations into bootlegging and other crimes, he "was assaulted
                    by one man, threats of assault and murder were every day occurrences, plots were
                    laid to plant liquor in our office and then have the police pull off a raid, a
                    plot was laid to 'knock off' the editor [Dale] while making an
                    automobile trip into Ohio, and our home was even invaded
                    during our absence by a band of thugs, who told the wife of the editor that they
                    would 'get' him before the night was over. "18
                The beating Dale received in March 1922 was unlikely to have been retaliation for
                    what he had written about the Muncie Klan, given that Dale had not yet begun his
                    crusade. In his own newspaper account of the attack, Dale did not mention the
                    Klan. Instead, he described his assailants as "assassins in black
                    mask" who had hit him with a blackjack and fired a shot at his badly
                    injured son.19 Two weeks later, Dale wrote that he knew who
                    his attackers were. He said he had evidence that this attack was inspired by a
                        Post-Democrat article that had accused "corrupt
                    republican politicians" of promising "certain democrats and
                    republicans" that they could avoid federal prosecution if they secured
                    votes in 
                        17Joseph M. Huffington, a Klan recruiter in
                                    Texas and Oklahoma,
                            began the planning for the Indiana Klan in 1920 in
                                    Evansville. D. C.
                            Stephenson began recruiting drives in southwestern Indiana in 1921; on July 4, 1923, he was named
                            Grand Dragon for the state. See Lutholtz, Grand
                            Dragon, 19-20. The Muncie Klan was probably established in late
                            1921 and peaked in 1922.
                        18Post-Democrat, December 16,
                            1921. In his columns, Dale switched between referring to himself in the
                            first person and calling himself "the editor" or later
                            "the mayor."
                        19Post-Democrat, March 24, March
                            31, 1922. A week before the attack, Dale accused the Muncie
                                Star of "making a mountain of a mole hill" by
                            reporting an anonymous threat sent to a police captain active in
                            gambling investigations and signed "Ku Klux Klan." As for the
                            attack on Dale and his son, the story in the Post-Democrat did not link it directly to the Klan, although
                            Dale wrote that "It was along the same line as that adopted by the
                            scoundrel who threw a brick through the window at police headquarters,
                            and the cowards who sent Ku Klux messages to police
                            officers."
                    
                    the upcoming elections for the Williams
                    political machine, which Dale contended ran the city in league with local
                        bootleggers.20
                A month later, Dale wrote an editorial praising a group of hooded Klansmen who
                    marched into a Methodist Church in the nearby town of Eaton, gave the minister money, and pronounced that
                    the Klan stood for law and order. "There is certainly plenty of room for an
                    organization of this kind to work in Delaware
                    County," Dale wrote. Although he did make fun of their
                    white masks and costumes and noted that they could be just as successful without
                    them, Dale blamed bad law enforcement agencies for the establishment of groups
                    like the Klan. In the same editorial, Dale expressed surprise at the size of
                    Klan's presence in Muncie: "Very few people
                    outside of those who belong, were aware of the fact that the Ku Klux have an
                    organization here, but it is known that the order is strong here and that there
                    are probably six hundred members in Muncie."21
                 It was nearly three months after he and his son were assaulted that Dale fired
                    his first salvo against the Klan. On June 9, 1922, Dale wrote, "Strange
                    things are happening in Muncie these days. Hundreds of
                    citizens here, many of them being men of high character, are joining the Ku Klux
                    Klan, but we question very much whether or not a very large percentage of those
                    are really aware of the things pulled off by an inner circle of Kluckers,22 who, most likely, refrain from informing the rank and
                    file of ... their maneuvers." He charged that a Klan organizer had
                    illegally been placed on a jury during the trial of a Klansman.23 In the next week's paper, Dale concluded that his old enemies,
                    led by the Williams machine, were trying "to obtain political supremacy
                    here and keep themselves out of federal prison by threatening free born white
                    people with the wrath of the Klan."24
                
                    20Post-Democrat, April 7,
                        1922.
                    21Post-Democrat, April 28, 1922. To
                        announce its presence in a city, the Klan often used the technique of
                        marching into churches with friendly ministers and presenting checks. David
                        Goldberg, "Unmasking the Ku Klux Klan: The Northern Movement Against
                        the KKK, 1920- 1925," Journal of American Ethnic
                            History, 15 (Summer 1996), 34.
                    22Klansmen sometimes referred to themselves as
                        Kluckers. The Klan songbook, published by Rhinehart Publishing of Muncie
                        (undated), included the titles "The Klucker and the Rain" and
                        "Long Klucker." A copy of the songbook is in box 1, Series 2: Ku
                        Klux Klan Materials, Dale Papers.
                    23Post-Democrat, June 9, 1922. Dale
                        had made passing references to the Klan before this. For example, on May 12,
                        1922, he compared a rowdy meeting of the Democratic Party to a
                        "bulsheveeky camp or a Ku Klux Kluster."
                    24Post-Democrat, June 16,
                        1922.
                
                
                
                    A group of Muncie Kamelias, 1924. Dale took pride in the hostile reactions he
                        provoked from local Klan supporters, including the women members who spat
                        whenever they saw him in public.
                    Courtesy Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University
                        Libraries
                
                Once the Post-Democrat began its attack on the Klan, it was
                    unrelenting. Almost every week, the paper was filled with new revelations about
                    who was in the secret society and sarcastic reports on what the Klan was doing.
                    Dale reprinted anti-Klan articles from national publications and exposed local
                    hypocrisy, such as his account of an obviously intoxicated Klan leader who spoke
                    in a Muncie park about the evils of drink. Dale
                    noted that the bottle found in his car was Irish whiskey, not the "100
                    percent American" kind. Dale's assault on the organization, he
                    reported, caused Klansmen and women to jeer him on city streets.25
                
                    25Post-Democrat, September 8, 1922.
                        See also Douglas, "The Mayor of Middletown," 479, which describes
                        the "sweet ladies of the Invisible Empire" who "had been
                        ordered to spit on [Dale] whenever he appeared on the streets of
                                Muncie. And they had spat till they had no
                        spit left."
                
                
                About four months into Dale's anti-Klan campaign, and seven months after he
                    and his son were attacked, Dale began to claim, publicly and explicitly, that
                    the March 1922 assault was linked to the Klan. He reported that police believed
                    a car used in the attack belonged to a man who had been brought to town to
                    organize the Klan. As time passed, Dale became more certain his attackers were
                    Klansmen, noting that southern Klansmen sometimes wore black hoods. Dale later
                    changed his description of his assailants from "assassins in black
                    mask" to "hooded ruffians."26
                A second widely reported attack occurred in 1926, when bullets were fired into
                    Dale's house, narrowly missing his family. Although some writers have
                    linked the shooting to the Klan, it came after the Klan had lost most of its
                    influence in Muncie. A week after the shooting, the Post-Democrat carried a story indicating that
                    anti-Catholicism was still afflicting Hoosier politics even though the Klan was
                    no longer in vogue. Dale himself wrote that the shooting was the work of
                    "protected bootleggers and rum runners" who had befriended his
                    archenemies in the Williams political machine. The shooting came as Dale was
                    engaged in a heated expose of Muncie's
                    illegal liquor industry.27
                Claims that the Klan retaliated against the Post-Democrat by
                    scaring off advertisers and subscribers are also suspect. While Dale was
                    appealing for donations, he claimed that the Klan had cost him most of his
                    readers. Yet, on May 30, 1924, after months of fierce attacks on the Klan, Dale
                    wrote that, although defending lawsuits was taking all the money he had, the
                    paper was flourishing: "Notwithstanding the determined battle made by its
                    enemies to drive it out of the field, the Post-Democrat is
                    enjoying a phenomenal growth. In March, 1923, when the Ku Klux Klan started its
                    intensive legal battle against the editor of the Post-Democrat, the circulation was something like twenty-five hundred
                    copies weekly. This week we are printing and circulating sixteen thousand
                        copies."28
                Furthermore, an informal analysis of July editions of the Post-Democrat from the 1920s found only a faint correlation between
                    the number of display advertisements and the rise and fall of the Muncie 
                        26Post-Democrat, November 3,
                            1922, January 5, 1923, July 23, 1925.
                        27Post-Democrat, December 2,
                            November 25, 1926.
                        28Post-Democrat, May 30, 1924.
                            By then, Dale was circulating his paper in many cities in eastern
                                    Indiana and western Ohio, which may explain much of the
                            circulation growth.
                    
                     Klan.29 Dale had had
                    trouble selling advertisement for his earlier paper, the Muncie
                        Post, and the paper had failed. Dale also enjoyed little success in
                    finding advertisers for the Post-Democrat. Before the Klan
                    came to Indiana, Dale accused merchants of not advertising
                    in the Post-Democrat "because of the paper's
                        politics."30 In July 1921, the four-page paper had
                    on average only one larger ad (approximately three columns wide by eight inches
                    tall), two midsized (two-column) ads, and about twelve small, one-column ads for
                    local movies, eateries and other businesses. In July 1922, immediately after the
                    start of Dale's anti-Klan reporting, the number of ads in the Post-Democrat remained at about the same low level. In July 1923, in
                    the middle of the most ferocious of the Klan coverage, advertising in the
                    newspaper was down slightly, averaging less than one large, three midsize, and
                    five small ads per issue. Dale now offered a new reason for his ad sales
                    problems, complaining that "merchants hesitated to advertise in the Post-Democrat for fear of a Klan boycott." He encouraged
                    readers to come to the aid of the paper, and at least one did, signing the ads
                    "a friend and well wisher."31 As the paper's
                    expose of the Klan continued into 1924, the year in which a Klansman was elected
                    governor of Indiana but also the year the Midwest was hit by a
                    major recession, July statistics show advertising still down, averaging one
                    large or midsized ad and three small ones per issue. In July 1925, after the
                    arrest of D. C. Stephenson on murder charges and at the beginning of the decline
                    of the Muncie Klan, advertising increased somewhat to an average of one large
                    ad, three mid-sized ads and three small ads. Even though statewide membership in
                    the Klan was dropping rapidly by 1926, in July of that year advertising shrank
                    to an average of two large ads, one midsized ad, and no small ads. Often one of
                    the large ads was from the state Democratic Party. The July 22, 1926, paper had
                    no display ads at all, although, as Martin Schwartz noted, "By the
                    beginning of 1926 the Klan was mentioned only sporadically in the Post-Democrat."32
                
                    29July was selected at random. In newspaper parlance,
                        display advertisements are the typical department and grocery store ads, as
                        opposed to classified ads and legal notices. The Post-Democrat did not have classified ads.
                    30Post-Democrat, February 24,
                        1922.
                    31Post-Democrat, July 13,
                        1923.
                    32Martin D. Schwartz, "Unrest in Middletown: A
                        Study in Municipal Pressures" (Thesis, Harvard College, 1938),
                        120.
                
                
                
                    The headlines of the August 18, 1922, issue of the Muncie
                            Post-Democrat. Once he embarked on his crusade against the Klan,
                        Dale continually attacked the group on the front page of the paper.
                    Courtesy Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University
                        Libraries
                
                At no time before or during Dale's fight with the Klan would advertising and
                    circulation income alone have been enough to sustain a profitable paper. The Post-Democrat derived much of its income from publishing legal
                    notices. Even though Indiana law required governmental
                    agencies to place ads in both Republican and Democratic papers, Dale had to
                    fight to get this advertising. When he started the Post-Democrat, many county and township officials refused to recognize
                    the paper, preferring to place their ads in Muncie's two Republican papers.
                    Twice, Dale had to get court orders forcing them to advertise with him.
                Two more attempts were made to keep these lucrative legal notices away from the
                        Post-Democrat. After Dale refused to endorse the
                    party's candidate for mayor in 1921, some angry Democrats tried to oust him
                    from the party and start a "real" Democratic paper that would qualify
                    for the legal notices. Dale claimed they were receiving support from the
                    Republican political machine. That alternative paper did not materialize in
                    1921, but in spring 1924 another publisher succeeded in launching a second
                    Democratic paper. Most county officials—all Republicans—switched their legal ads to it. Dale claimed that
                    the paper received support from some Democrats, Williams and his Republican
                    supporters, and the Klan. It ceased publication in August 1924, but not before
                    costing Dale, by his own accounts, thousands of dollars.33
                Ironically, Judge Dearth, one of Dale's biggest enemies, indirectly gave him
                    and his paper a major economic boost. The judge's jail sentence in the
                    contempt-of-court case had provoked state and national newspaper
                    editors—Republican and Democratic—to rail against the court rulings and to
                    portray Dale as a hero of press freedom. With all the positive publicity, the
                        Post-Democrat's advertising revenue exploded. By July
                    1927, each issue averaged one large ad, seven mid-size ads, and thirty small
                    ads. The newspaper's circulation hit 18,000. Schwartz, in the first
                    scholarly assessment of Dale, concluded that all the national support caused
                            Muncie residents to reconsider Dale and his
                    paper: "The people were beginning to wonder whether something should not be
                    done to 'make it all up' to Dale for the suffering he had received in
                    their midst."34 In 1929, Dale, who had claimed that his
                    fight with the Klan had left him friendless, was elected mayor of
                            Muncie with a record number of votes. His
                    popularity, however, was short-lived. As mayor, he battled with both Democratic
                    and Republican council members and plunged the city into a costly legal dispute
                    when he fired the police and fire departments because he believed they had
                    campaigned against him.35 He sought re-election but lost in
                    the Democratic primary. His legal problems continued. He was indicted for
                    criminal libel and convicted on a federal violation-of-prohibition charge, which
                    concluded in a pardon by President Franklin Roosevelt, who was convinced that
                    witnesses had committed perjury.
                Almost as quickly as the Klan took power in Muncie, the
                    secret society faded. Middle-class and professional members were the first to
                    leave, driven away by embarrassing episodes such as Klan members assaulting
                    people at a 1923 parade if they did not tip their hats as a Klanswoman rode by
                    with an American flag draped over her horse's 
                        33Post-Democrat, May 12, 1922,
                            April 6, 13, 1923.
                        34Schwartz, "Unrest in Middletown,"
                            138.
                        35Frank, "Politics in Middletown," has
                            solid analysis of Dale as mayor. Also see Frank, "Who Governed
                            Middletown? Community Power in Muncie, Indiana, in the 1930s," Indiana Magazine of History, 75 (December 1979),
                            320-43.
                    
                     rump.36 "By 1924,
                    the political influence and membership of the Klan in Muncie was rapidly on the decline," historian
                    Carrolyle Frank wrote.37 Statewide, the Klan suffered when
                    Stevenson, Grand Dragon of an organization sworn to "protect American
                    womanhood," was accused of raping a maid in a Columbus, Ohio, hotel and then
                    was convicted in 1925 in the death of another woman, who apparently swallowed
                    poison after he raped and mutilated her on a Chicago-bound
                        train.38 Infighting among national, state, and local
                    units furthered the Klan's deterioration. The Post-Democrat and many other Indiana papers
                    clearly relished covering these stories.
                So, if the Klan was not the Post-Democrat's major
                    antagonist, then what explains the physical and financial attacks on Dale? The
                    truth is that well before the Klan came to town, Dale already had a long list of
                    powerful enemies. When George Dale moved to Muncie, the city
                    had a reputation as a wide-open place where political leaders and police
                    officers took money not to notice the city's large red-light district,
                    gambling halls, "Cocaine Alley," and "blind pigs" (taverns
                    that flouted Prohibition laws). Dale came with a reputation for supporting
                    Prohibition and opposing gambling. He had been editor of weeklies that were
                    credited with closing the saloons in nearby Hartford
                        City and Montpelier.39 Dale was
                    undoubtedly correct in blaming bootleggers for many of his problems.
                Dale's problems in Muncie, however, ran deeper than
                    opposition from bootleggers. He had set out to publish a pro-labor, Democratic
                    newspaper in a city dominated by anti-union industrialists and Republican
                    businessmen. Dale blamed the local business community for failing to support his
                    first Muncie paper, the Post,
                    which ceased publication in 1918. Dale wrote that during the paper's
                    two-year existence, it "was boycotted by the majority of the merchants of
                            Muncie because it advocated the cause of labor
                    and consistently and successfully opposed those enemies of labor who sought to
                    gain ascendancy in the city."40
                
                    36Post-Democrat, June 8,
                        1923.
                    37Frank, "Muncie Politics," 35.
                    38Lutholtz, Grand Dragon, has an
                        extensive account of the trial, 215-301.
                    39Lawrence Giel, "George R. Dale-Crusader for
                        Free Speech and a Free Press," (Ph.D. diss., Ball State University,
                        1967), 3.
                    40Post-Democrat, July 15,
                        1921.
                
                
                When Dale launched the Post-Democrat in 1920, members of the
                    city's Commercial Club—a predecessor to the Chamber of Commerce—warned him
                    that he should abandon the paper's pro-labor stance. He did not. In the
                    first extant edition of the paper, Dale advocated the eight-hour workday,
                    attacked the Indiana Senate for passing laws that allowed union pickets to be
                    arrested on loitering charges, and argued that big corporations had framed
                    Thomas Mooney, the San Francisco labor
                    organizer whose arrest for a 1916 bombing in that city had made national
                        headlines.41 While Muncie's
                    two daily papers paid little attention to labor,42 the Post-Democrat ran stories about major strikes as far away as
                            London and small strikes closer to home, such
                    as the walkout of forty-three women at a Goshen,
                            Indiana, dress factory. Dale poured his vitriol on
                    President Warren Harding and the day's industrialists: "The Harding
                    administration was placed on its pedestal of power by the criminal wealth which
                    is now starving millions in order to reduce the farmer to serfdom and the
                    working man to the position of a bond slave."43 Later
                    he wrote that the moneyed aristocrats who complained of the spread of bolshevism
                    were the "real un-American anarchists." He argued for the
                    nationalization of the railroads and coal mines and for abolition of the
                    National Guard after the governor "sent three thousand troopers to southern
                            Indiana to protect thirty-two scab strike breakers
                    in the coal field."44 Such opinions were exactly what
                    most Muncie businessmen did not want to see in a
                    local paper or to support with their advertising dollars.
                Dale's pro-labor, Democratic paper would also have put him at odds with
                    Muncie's financial-industrial leaders, particularly the Ball brothers, who
                    dominated Muncie to such a degree that the sociologists
                    Robert and Helen Lynd called them the city's "reigning royal
                        family."45 Their glass company, which was said to
                    manufacture most of America's canning jars, was by far the city's
                    largest employer. At the turn of the 
                        41Mooney was convicted but pardoned in
                            1939.
                        42A content analysis at the time indicated that
                            the Muncie Star and Muncie Press
                            devoted less than three-tenths of one percent of their news holes to
                            stories and editorials about labor. See Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell
                            Lynd, Middletown: A Study in Modern American Culture
                            (1928; New York, 1956),
                            534.
                        43Post-Democrat, April 29,
                            1921.
                        44Post-Democrat, August 18,
                            1922.
                        45Lynd and Lynd, Middletown in
                                Transition, 77. The Lynds referred to the Balls as Family
                            "X."
                    
                     century, newspapers had dubbed Edmund Ball
                            "Indiana's richest man." In the 1920s and
                    '30s, the Balls' business holdings included several railroads and
                            Muncie's major department store; family
                    members sat on the boards of many local businesses.46 They
                    had substantial investments in Muncie's
                    auto transmission, furniture, and meatpacking companies and in the local
                        airport.47 Family members were so anti-labor that they
                    reportedly dissuaded many industries from locating in Muncie for fear that the
                    companies would bring unions and higher pay scales with them.48 The Balls were also politically active. George A. Ball was a
                    Republican National Committee member for several years,49
                    and the family owned a sizable stake in the city's largest daily newspaper,
                        The Muncie Star, and financially assisted other Republican
                    papers in the state.50
                Dale's earliest associations in the city contributed to his antagonistic
                    relationship with the Ball family. Dale was brought to Muncie by Mayor Rollin Bunch and his brother Fred
                    to edit a paper that they had begun in 1916. Dale later contended that the Ball
                    family had a "fundamental hatred" of Mayor Bunch.51 Bunch himself, sent to prison on corruption charges, blamed his
                    conviction on the Balls. Bunch was politically very much to the left. Historian
                    Thomas Buchanan writes: "A strong case can be made that Bunch's
                    political beliefs leaned strongly toward socialism."52
                    Bunch's campaign manager and top aide, William Daniel, was an avowed
                        socialist.53
                
                    46John Bartlow Martin, Indiana: An
                            Interpretation (New York,
                        1947), 79-86; Lynd and Lynd, Middletown in Transition, 77;
                        Frank, "Who Governed Middletown," 322.
                    47Frank, "Who Governed Middletown,"
                        322.
                    48Post-Democrat, November 3, 1933; Lynd and Lynd, Middletown in Transition, 79-80.
                    49"Biographical Sketch" from the Collection
                        Guide to the Ball Family Photographs 1936-1946 Collection, Indiana
                        Historical Society, Indianapolis, online at http://www.indianahistory.
                        org/library/manuscripts/collection_guides/PO430.html (accessed January 10,
                        2010).
                    50John E. Stempel and Richard D. Yoakum,
                        "Communications Media," in Indiana: A Self-
                        Appraisal, ed. Donald F Carmony (Bloomington,
                        Ind., 1966),
                        139.
                    51Post-Democrat, August 9, 1935.
                        Years later, Bunch again was elected mayor but was accused of bending to the
                        will of the Ball Family.
                    52Thomas W Buchanan, "The Life of Rollin
                        'Doc' Bunch, the Boss of Middletown" (Ph.D. diss., Ball State
                        University, 1992), 72.
                    53Post-Democrat, September 2, 1921;
                        Martin, Indiana, 84.
                
                
                
                    Walnut Street, Muncie, Indiana, 1923. In late 1921, recruiters for the Ku
                        Klux Klan began to gather followers in the city; by 1923, the Klan was at
                        the height of its membership and influence, both in Muncie and in the state of Indiana.
                    Courtesy Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University
                        Libraries
                
                In a town still clinging to the nickname "Magic City," civic leaders
                    saw that Muncie was in trouble. Crime was rampant; its
                    mayor was a corrupt leftist; and a feisty weekly newspaper editor was trying to
                    rouse workers to the cause of unionism, despite the disastrous streetcar strike
                    and the ensuing riot and two-week-long declaration of martial law of 1908.54
                
                    54Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in
                            Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880- 1920
                                (Indianapolis, 1968),
                        357. See Sixth Biennial Report of the Indiana Labor Commission
                        1907- 1908 (Indianapolis, 1908), online at
                        http://www.archive.org/stream/biennialreport00idahgoog/
                        biennialreport00idahgoog_djvu.txt (Accessed November 9, 2009); "Strike
                        Riot at Muncie," The New York Times, January 2, 1908,
                        p. 1; and "Hanly Puts Muncie Under Martial Law," The
                            New York Times, January 5, 1908, p. 2.
                
                
                Civil and business leaders believed they needed to do something to improve their
                    city, and they turned to what would seem today to be a most unexpected
                    organization. Throughout Indiana in the early 1920s, many city
                    leaders welcomed the Ku Klux Klan into their communities because of the Indiana
                    Klan's reputation for anti-liquor, anti-corruption, and pro-American
                    stances. A McClure's magazine article in 1924 concluded
                    that "the unbiased verdict in Indiana seems to be that he [the Indiana
                    Klansman] has been, all things considered, a real factor for the betterment of
                    municipal rule."55
                A widely repeated rumor contended that a group of Muncie civic leaders had
                    invited a Klan organizer to come to the city in hopes that the Klan would target
                    Mayor Bunch and lead an effort to clean up corruption and crime. The first
                    meeting of the Muncie Klan was reportedly held in the offices of the Chamber of
                        Commerce,56 whose membership was limited to the
                    city's top business and civic leaders. It is unlikely that the Balls
                    themselves were involved with the Klan. However, Ball families were members of,
                    and donated heavily to, Muncie's small Universalist church, whose minister
                    resigned after he offended members by giving a sermon denouncing the Klan.57
                In many ways, the Indiana Klan proved a perfect fit for Muncie's business
                    leaders. Despite the popular notion that Klansmen came from lower socioeconomic
                    classes, the Indiana Klan's early membership was recruited from the
                    professional and middle classes,58 and the Klan's 
                        55Max Bentley, "The Ku Klux Klan in
                            Indiana," McClure's, 57 (May 1924),
                            23.
                        56Lynd and Lynd, Middletown,
                            481; Dwight Hoover, "To Be a Jew in Middletown," in Middletown Jews: The Tenuous Survival of an American Jewish
                                Community, ed. Dan Rottenberg (Bloomington,
                            Ind., 1997),
                            xxvi-xxvii.
                        57"A Brief History of Our Church,"
                            Unitarian Universalist Church of Muncie website,
                            www.uuchurchmuncie.org/web/our-church/a-brief-history-of-our-church.html
                            (accessed January 5, 2010). From the original generation of five Ball
                            brothers who moved to Muncie,
                            four brothers and their wives joined the local Universalist
                            congregation. In Middletown, the Lynds observed:
                            "The conspicuous omission of ministers from the Rotary is possibly
                            indicative of the attitudes of Middletown [Muncie] business men: some explain the
                            omission by saying that if any minister were included it would have to
                            be the pastor of the prominent millionaire manufacturer, and since
                            they were Universalists, the more orthodox would object" (p.
                            349).
                        58Several studies have shown this. See Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 47; Roland G. Fryer Jr. and Steven
                            D. Levitt, "Hatred and Profits: Getting Under the Hood of the Ku
                            Klux Klan," National Bureau of Economic Research
                                Working Paper Series, September 2007, p. 5, online at
                            http://www.nber.org/papers/w3417.pdf?newwindow=1 (accessed September 8,
                            2010).
                    
                     philosophy was pro-business, anti-labor,
                    and generally Republican.59 Its list of enemies included
                    labor organizers, agrarian radicals, and socialists; its tenets included working
                    for "closer relationships between labor and capital" and
                    "preventing unwarranted strikes by foreign labor agitators."60 Scholarly research has shown "that the secret order
                    drew its membership from a generally balanced cross-section of the white male
                    Protestant population, rarely engaged in violent vigilantism, and for the most
                    part functioned in the manner of a typical civic action group."61 It promised opportunities for community service; promoted
                    "100 percent Americanism"; worked for stronger enforcement of
                    Prohibition laws; and offered camaraderie in its weekly meetings, frequent
                    parades, and massive festivities.62 The ridiculous jargon
                    and costumes only added to the experience.63
                The Klan's attitudes toward ethnicity would not have disconcerted most
                            Muncie residents.64 Local
                    Klansmen, by and large, treated the city's small, segregated black
                    community paternalistically, often making showy displays of their donations to
                    black churches and charities. At one point they considered forming an auxiliary
                    for African Americans, primarily to add more dues to Klan coffers.65 The Muncie Klan was more 
                        59Klan recruiters often tailored the
                            organization's political positions to suit the audience, thereby
                            creating inconsistencies. See Rory McVeigh, Daniel Myers, and David
                            Sikkink, "Corn, Klansmen and Coolidge: Structure and Framing in
                            Social Movements," Social Forces, 83 (December
                            2004), 653-54.
                        60Rory McVeigh, "Structural Incentives for
                            Conservative Mobilization: Power Devaluation and the Rise of the Ku Klux
                            Klan, 1915-1925," Social Forces, 77 (June 1999),
                            1464; "The Tenets of the Christian Religion," undated Klan
                            leaflet, Ku Klux Klan Collection, Archives and Special Collections, Ball
                            State University Libraries, Muncie,
                                    Indiana. Different Klan units had their
                            own oaths and collections of "tenets."
                        61Shawn Lay, "Hooded Populism: New
                            Assessments of the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s," Reviews
                                in American History, 22 (December 1994), 668-69. This view of
                            the Klan is more fully developed in Moore, Citizen
                                Klansmen.
                        62See Moore, Citizen Klansmen,
                            60-70; Stanley Coben, "Ordinary White Protestants: The KKK of the
                            1920s," Journal of Social History, 28 (Autumn
                            1994), 155-66; Goldberg, "Unmasking the Ku Klux Klan," 32-49;
                            and Blee, Women of the Klan.
                        63lrving Lebowitz, My Indiana
                                    (Englewood
                                    Cliffs, N.J.,
                            1964), 193.
                        64The Middletown studies reported that 66 percent
                            of Muncie's male high school seniors
                            and 75 percent of female seniors believed "the white race is the
                            best race on earth." Lynd and Lynd, Middletown,
                            200.
                        65Post-Democrat, February 13,
                            1925.
                    
                     vehemently anti-Catholic than it was
                    anti-Semitic or anti-black, and that too was a common prejudice among midwestern
                    Protestants in the 1920s. Its "100 percent Americanism," which Dale
                    later ridiculed, was at home with the nativism which dominated much of
                    post-World War I America. Even Dale's Post-Democrat
                    reported that the influx of immigrants was acting to lower wages and "smash
                    unions," and the paper criticized immigration officials for allowing
                    "vermin-infested aliens" into the country.66
                The initial membership of the Klan would have included some of Dale's most
                    resolute enemies. Many of the businessmen and civic leaders who had boycotted
                    his newspapers for their pro-labor stances and his association with Bunch were
                    now joining the secret order. County officials, mostly Republicans who had been
                    stung by Dale's sarcastic editorials, would have had ties to the
                    city's business and industrial leaders and would have been drawn to the
                    Klan. Even many Democrats had turned against Dale in 1921, after he refused to
                    endorse party nominee Bunch, who was seeking re-election despite an
                            Indiana law prohibiting convicted felons from
                    holding office. Many of Muncie's bootleggers, who
                    already hated Dale for his anti-liquor crusade, were well placed socially and
                    politically, and would also have reason to join the Klan.67
                One can conclude that the Klan brought together and emboldened Dale's
                    enemies and made life considerably harder for the publisher and his newspaper.
                    However, the assessment that the Klan was the primary cause of Dale's
                    troubles is overstated. Before the Klan came to Muncie, Dale's reporting on the area's
                    illegal liquor business had caused bootleggers to threaten and assault him and
                    to terrorize his wife. His rabidly pro-labor and leftist writings had angered
                            Muncie's industrialists and merchants and
                    led them to withhold their advertising from his paper. And his attacks on the
                    Republican political machine and refusal to support the corrupt Democratic Mayor
                    Bunch had alienated him from most of the city's political figures. Given
                            Indiana's history of vigilantism, 
                        66Post-Democrat, February 18,
                            25, 1921.
                        67Such hypocrisy was common in the Klan. At least
                            one Muncie Klansman was convicted of violation of liquor laws and
                            investigated in the death of a man who bought bad whiskey from him.
                            Bigger bootleggers also used their influence to get police to keep
                            smaller dealers in line. See Post-Democrat, February
                            8, 1924, and March 30, 1923.
                    
                     members of any of these groups may have
                    been willing to finance violence against Dale.68
                Because so much attention has been paid to Dale's fight with the Klan, his
                    real mission in Muncie has been largely
                    overlooked. He should be remembered as an editor who fought vice and political
                    corruption, stirring the wrath of powerful bootleggers and politicians. More
                    importantly, he should be recognized as an editor who paid a heavy price for
                    championing labor and left-of-center politics in a strongly anti-union city
                    where workers, as the Middletown studies showed, toiled for
                    long hours, were poorly paid, and had little job security. And, for his
                    desperate fight against his conviction for indirect contempt of Judge Dearth, he
                    deserves a place among Indiana's champions of press
                    freedom.
                
                    68Paul Musgrave, "'A Primitive Method of
                        Enforcing the Law': Vigilantism as a Response to Bank Crimes in
                        Indiana, 1925-1933," Indiana Magazine of History, 102
                        (September 2006), 124. Indiana law also allowed citizens to form "Horse
                        Thief Detective Agencies" and gave the "agencies"
                        law-enforcement privileges. These groups, some connected to the Klan, were
                        still extant in the 1920s.
                
            
            
            
                Reviews


                The Negro in South Bend: A Social Study Sermon: The Quest of
                        Restless Souls (1922)
                    By Buford E Gordon Edited and with an introduction by David H. Healey
                            (South Bend, Ind.: Wolfson
                    Press, 2009. Illustrations, index. $10.00.)
                In 1922, the African American Rev. Buford E Gordon, a relative newcomer to
                    South
                    Bend who had studied both for the ministry and in sociology at the University of
                    Chicago, privately published The Negro in South Bend: A Social
                        Study as well as a sermon, "The Quest of Restless Souls."
                    Originally appearing three years after incidents of large-scale violence against
                    black populations in many major cities—including nearby Chicago—the two texts
                    have been recovered from the archives and reissued by Wolfson Press, which is
                    affiliated with Indiana University, South Bend's Master of Liberal Studies
                    program. The publication appears as part of Wolfson's "On Their
                    Shoulders: Race Relations & Civil Rights in South Bend, Indiana"
                    series; as such, it is indicative of larger current trends to foster public
                    memory and discussion in the northern Indiana region.
                Taken together, Gordon's social study and sermon offer marvelous
                    opportunities for exploring conditions in South Bend
                    during this particularly explosive time in U.S. history. Those interested
                    in the city and its larger region will be drawn to the eclectic information
                    provided by the author, from Gordon's estimates of the numbers of black
                    workers employed at local companies and the percentages of black children
                    attending school to his chapter on the early history of African Americans in
                            South Bend. In the latter, the author tells
                    the story of a fugitive slave case that included local residents-black and
                    white-rallying to prevent a Kentuckian from returning home with his recaptured
                    slaves.
                Moreover, these two works promote the study of an especially complex aspect of
                            U.S. culture from the 1890s to World War II: the
                    relation among sociology, religion, and 
                    activism in the context of movements for racial equality. Gordon's texts
                    represent an amalgam of sometimes-contradictory discourses shaped into an appeal
                    for African American social, civil, and political rights. The Negro
                        in South Bend emerges from a sociological tradition that presumes that
                    the scientific study of social problems leads to effective solutions. As such,
                    the book argues that once the white community fully understands African
                    Americans' struggles, they will begin to help address them. In pursuit of
                    this goal, the author weaves histories, census data, anecdotes, photographs, and
                    statistics compiled from local employers to educate readers about the challenges
                    African Americans faced in finding work, schooling, and housing.
                This progressive sociological narrative, however, is complicated by Gordon's
                    non-secular appeals and his assumptions about "racial uplift" in
                    relation to gender roles, class formation, and even global missionary projects.
                    Most notable, when comparing the book and the sermon, is the tension between
                    moderate discourses of uplift and a more radical call for structural, societal
                    change. In his book, Gordon often—though not always—moderates his tone and
                    argument, adopting the ostensibly scientific third-person voice and emphasizing
                    gradual reform, cooperation with whites, and the underlying need for jobs.
                    Without employment prospects, Gordon writes, black families will not see the
                    importance of sending their children to school. Yet these appeals also contain
                    implicit warnings to white leaders—especially employers at key local
                    manufacturers such as Studebaker, Singer, and Westinghouse who, since the end of
                    the war, had hired fewer and fewer African Americans.
                Although in his study Gordon asserts that "there has been in no instance an
                    expressed bitterness among the different races" in South Bend (p. 52),
                    editor David H. Healey's introduction suggests a less sanguine reality:
                    "Racial competition and violence increased ... during World War I, with at
                    least one effort being made to burn a large black boarding house while its
                    residents slept" (p. 6). In such a context, Gordon's sermon presents a
                    more radical message for a different audience. He notes the "social
                    unrest" of the times, including the struggles of black workers in general,
                    especially women and soldiers returning to civilian life, and he issues a direct
                    challenge: "We must have democracy for all the people," he writes,
                    "or change our form of government" (p. 96).
                The edition contains discussion questions relevant to a variety of audiences,
                    from community book groups to high school and university-level students.
                    Healey's introductory essay is buoyed by thorough research—from interviews
                    with Gordon's children to a Freedom of Information Act request for military
                    records—and offers many valuable contextual and biographical details, although
                    students and historians may be disappointed by the lack of notes and
                    bibliography.
                
                Healey is right when he notes that Gordon's text "provides a baseline
                    of research data for understanding the history of African Americans in
                            South Bend" (p. 14), though he perhaps
                    understates the case. The Negro in South Bend and
                    Gordon's sermon offer much more: they tell an alternate history of the
                    Great Migration; they provide primary materials with which to consider the
                    complexities and contradictions of the ideologies of racial uplift; and they
                    document struggles that might otherwise be overshadowed by larger urban
                    histories or attention to national figures such as Booker T. Washington or W E.
                    B. Du Bois.
                JAKE MATTOX is Assistant Professor of English at Indiana University,
                            South Bend. He has published and presented on
                    Martin Delany, black nationalism in the Americas, George Schuyler, and the
                    teaching of multiethnic literatures. 
            


            
                Democracy's Prisoner Eugene V Debs, the Great War and
                        the Right to Dissent
                    By Ernest Freeberg (Cambridge,
                            Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2008. Pp. ix,
                    380. Illustrations, notes, index. $29.95.)


                Of Eugene Debs's five presidential runs, the 1920 campaign arguably had the
                    most lasting impact. That year, running as Convict No. 7653 in the Atlanta
                    Federal Penitentiary, he found himself at the center of a national debate over
                    free speech.
                The story of Debs's 1918 arrest in Canton,
                            Ohio, for allegedly violating federal law by
                    advocating insubordination and obstruction of the draft, is a standard feature
                    in Debs biographies. Even surveys of the World War I era almost invariably
                    mention his arrest, though few of these do more than treat his candidacy as an
                    oddity. Ernest Freeburg, however, puts Debs's arrest, trial, incarceration,
                    and the campaign for his release at the center of the era's bitter national
                    debate over the nature of free speech.
                Debs did not set out to put himself in this position. His statements were no more
                    extreme than those made by many others, and considerably less than some. When he
                    spoke at Canton, many critics of the war had been
                    arrested and jailed. Some even had successfully fought similar charges.
                But this was Gene Debs, whose arrest was sure to provoke interest. It met with
                    widespread approval in the hyperpatriotic wartime atmosphere, even from many who
                    formerly had a good opinion of the man, if not of his politics. But from the
                    beginning some argued that he had been arrested for his political beliefs, not
                    because he  posed a threat to the nation. As
                    the months passed, from his trial in Cleveland to
                    his time in Moundsville Penitentiary and then Atlanta; from wartime to
                    peacetime; from the Wilson administration's dithering over a pardon or
                    other form of release to its (or, rather, President Wilson's) bitter, angry
                    decision to do nothing; through the Harding administration's delicate
                    handling of what had become the Debs Issue, Debs remained at the center of the
                    debate over wartime measures to restrict speech.
                While he may not have intended to provoke arrest, Debs generally embraced the
                    role of "democracy's prisoner." His rhetoric became, if anything,
                    more revolutionary; he refused to ask for leniency or pardon; and he linked his
                    case to those of other, lesser known "political prisoners." At the
                    same time, Debs remained the stubborn, frustratingly likable radical, winning
                    the grudging admiration of his warders and other prisoners, and slowly
                    rebuilding substantial—but not nearly universal—public sympathy.
                As Freeberg shows, all of this was useful to activists who had been appalled by
                    wartime restrictions like the Espionage Act. Knowing that many Americans were
                    uncomfortable with these restrictions, Lucy Robins, Roger Baldwin, Rose Stokes,
                    Max Eastman, and countless others argued, lobbied, wrote, and organized
                    tirelessly for the release of prisoners and for repudiation of the idea of
                    restrictions on speech. Having Debs as the most visible victim of wartime
                    repression was invaluable—he was unthreatening (at least to many), kind-hearted,
                    aging, and beset by medical problems (what a nightmare for a president to have
                    Debs die in prison!). Add the calming of passions after the Red Scare, which
                    Freeberg nicely details, and the beginnings of national second thoughts about
                    the war itself, and Debs's release was all but inevitable. When he left
                    prison, he may not have realized it but his political career was over. But the
                    pro-free speech attitudes and arguments developed during the fight in which he
                    was a central figure continue to shape discussion of this issue today.
                Democracy's Prisoner is a valuable contribution to the
                    literature on free speech and on Eugene Debs. Freeberg deftly moves back and
                    forth between the national struggle over speech and Debs's personal
                    experiences. His research is broad and deep, and he makes a good case for the
                    importance of Debs's imprisonment to the free speech battle. His
                    discussions of the internal debates over Debs that took place in the Wilson and
                    Harding administrations are fascinating. He also writes cleanly and smoothly,
                    even when discussing complicated legal arguments. The book is a pleasure to
                    read.
                Freeberg's descriptions of wartime repression vividly remind us of the
                    ugliness brought on by violations of that freedom, just as his discussion of the
                    free speech campaign reminds us that it is a freedom hard-won and never to be
                    taken for granted.
                
                GARY L. BAILEY is an associate professor of history at Indiana University of
                    Pennsylvania. He teaches labor and public history, and currently is engaged in a
                    project on work in nineteenth-century America.
            



            
                An American Hometown Terre Haute, Indiana, 1927
                    By Tom Roznowski (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2009. Pp.
                    xvi, 264. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $24.95.)

                Writer and editor David Hamilton posits that every place generates an initial,
                    telling existential question when one moves into it. He told me that when he
                    moved to Virginia, the question was, "Who are your
                    people?" When he moved to Alabama, "What church will you
                    be going to?" Michigan prompted, "What work do you do?" And
                    rIowa,
                    where David finally moved and still lives today, "What will you
                    garden?"
                Reading Tom Roznowski's Borgesian science fiction compendium, er, excuse me,
                    history, An American Hometown, I was reminded of David's
                    wry rubric. The interrogative crowbar that the book inserts to pry open each of
                    its many characters is primarily the Michigan wedge of
                    occupation. Roznowski fruitfully employs the varieties of employment found in
                    the 1927 Polk City Directory of Terre
                        Haute, Indiana, to leverage the nature of this place
                    and this time. The book is an abecedarian of citizens' names, each followed
                    by an italicized appositive of his or her job.
                And, yes, the annotated encyclopedia that results does read a lot like detailed
                    notes for an epic science fiction in a galaxy far far away.
                            Terra Haute might as well be the planet Mingo
                    for all its remote strangeness, for all these remote people occupied in these
                    bizarre and unusual tasks.
                As a history, there is little story. The book is all, or almost all, exposition,
                    as Roznowski expands names and occupations into a series of energetic
                    speculative essays on timely common cultural technologies, social practices, and
                    the coincidences of daily life. The effect is that of a vast museum, a cabinet
                    of wonder, its bare bones framed by intriguingly complex enabling apparati.
                    Every inch of this museum's walls is papered with ever-expanding
                    interpretive labels.
                Imagine a map more detailed than the thing it represents. In such a setting,
                    juxtaposition is all. The arbitrary ordering spontaneously creates valences,
                    insightfully opening up spaces for emotional response and intellectual
                    connection.
                This isn't "story" as much as anecdote on steroids. The white
                    space between each entry is a graphic invitation for the reader to participate
                    in  making the meaning of the text. Here,
                    the entry on Birch E. Bayh, a supervisor of physical education (annotated to
                    reflect his paternity of a future United
                        States senator and grand-paternity of another senator
                    who also will serve as governor) sits right next to that of Orval W Baker, a
                    manager of the Klan Home (bulked-up by its hefty essay about the Ku Klux Klan in
                            Indiana).
                What to make of that? Indeed, what to make of this or that at all? Such foiling
                    often foils our chance to make any lasting sense. Roznowski instead suggests,
                    almost atmospherically, that Terre Haute in 1927 represented, literally and
                    figuratively, the crossroads of America and its history. The device of the city
                    directory as exploding cloud chamber allows us to map the many and varied
                    trajectories at a unique collision of time and space. His introduction argues
                    that our immediate, real-time sensation of exhaustion, our post-postmodernness,
                    can, in fact, be traced back to this moment's Big Bang, its outward vectors
                    incubating in this list of names and catalog of jobs. The picture it presents of
                    the past may therefore also be the author's portrait of our future sans
                    cheap transportation, sans massive communication, sans entertainment
                    conglomeration, sans concentration of wealth. To his credit, Roznowski
                    constructs this simulation of a city and a time with little nostalgia and with
                    much lively imaginative vision.
                As I read An American Hometown, I was reminded not only of a
                    more elaborate Sim City but also of a schematic for a steam-punked analog
                    version of Facebook, a garden-like social network spun from one simple question:
                    What do you do?

                MICHAEL MARTONE was born in Fort Wayne,
                            Indiana, and graduated from Butler University. He
                    has butled, in one form or another, his entire career and currently is the
                    majordomo at the Carol Lombard House in Fort Wayne.
                    He is also the author and editor of several books, including Racing
                        in Place: Collages, Fragments, Postcards, Ruins (2008).
            


            
                The Bill Cook Story Ready, Fire, Aim
                    By Bob Hammel (Bloomington: Indiana
                    University Press, 2008. Pp. xiv, 411. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $24.95)
                Why would a sports writer author a book about an industrialist? Can you imagine
                    Grantland Rice writing a biography of John D. Rockefeller, or Red Smith penning
                    a tome on the life of Henry Kaiser?
                The Bill Cook Story is as exciting as any championship series.
                    Told by a master storyteller, the narrative sweeps the reader through the
                    personal and private lives of Bill and Gayle Cook. Unknown even in their own town—Bloomington, Indiana—this couple
                    established and nourished one of the great companies in the medical world. They
                    preserved and restored truly valuable buildings, owned sports organizations in
                    foreign lands, developed a small transportation and insurance empire, and won a
                    national drum corps championship before bringing a long-running show to
                    Broadway.
                Bob Hammel is the storyteller. As the former sports editor for the
                            Bloomington
                    Herald-Times, Hammel knows how to relate to public figures who
                    prefer to be private persons. It was Hammel who covered and befriended Bob
                    Knight, the incomparable Indiana University basketball coach, during the most
                    prominent years of Knight's career.
                With full access to the reclusive Cook, Hammel details the growth of Cook, Inc.
                    from its beginnings in an apartment near the Bloomington campus to its current
                    status as a very private enterprise with sprawling international holdings. This
                    well-illustrated biography tells the story that Bill Cook wants the world to
                    know. It is the same story told by his close associates.
                Now 89 years old, Cook is a coiled intellectual spring. Lanky and creased,
                    chain-smoking when I knew him, he could ask the most searing questions in the
                    quiet manner of a small-town midwestern boy. That he let Hammel so close is a
                    mark of the reporter's respect for his subject's integrity.
                The subtitle, Ready, Fire, Aim, refers to Bill Cook's
                    antipathy for long-term planning. He focuses on today, recognizing the
                    impossibilities of controlling the future. His single-minded (some say
                    autocratic) management style has led to some well-documented disputes with local
                    politicians in a community not known for harmonious or rational
                    relationships.
                Hammel shows us not just the man but something of the business, too. Cook, Inc.
                    has both benefited from and helped to lead the boom in non-invasive diagnostics
                    and surgery. The company has been part of the improvement in health care and the
                    lowering of costs which have characterized the industry over the past thirty
                    years. Yes, the lowering of costs. Today, with products like those made by Cook
                    and other high-tech medical supply firms, millions are able to afford and
                    survive procedures that would have been prohibitively expensive in the past.
                Some readers might shy away from a 411-page book about a midwestern manufacturer
                    of stents and catheters. They would miss the thriller tale of Gayle Cook's
                    kidnapping, the Tony and Emmy awards bestowed on Blast!, and the death-defying
                    journeys of John Mellencamp with Bill Cook at the wheel. Most of all, they would
                    deny themselves the story of the incredible restoration of the monumental West
                    Baden Springs Hotel.
                Bill and Gayle Cook are remarkable people. That this biography is  friendly to them in no way diminishes its relevance
                    or accuracy. Simply put, The Bill Cook Story is a good read.
                    Maybe someday Frank DeFord will give us the definitive work on Bill Gates or
                    John Feinstein will trace the rise and fall of Bernie Madoff. 

                MORTON J. MARCUS is director emeritus of the Indiana Business Research
                    Center, Kelley School of Business, Indiana University Bloomington and Indianapolis.
            


            
                Steve McQueen The Great Escape
                    By Wes D. Gehring (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society Press,
                    2009. Pp. xxxvi, 272. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography.
                    $19.95.)


                In his absorbing new biography, Steve McQueen: The Great
                    Escape, Wes D. Gehring continues his role as a keen observer, a skillful
                    writer, and a genuine movie buff who openly admires the spirit of his subjects.
                    This thorough and engaging book, the latest of Gehring's Hollywood
                    biographies, recounts McQueen's humble Hoosier beginnings, his early
                    television success as a tough-guy bounty hunter, and the numerous films that
                    made him the biggest movie star of the early 1970s.
                Gehring begins his biography with McQueen's "train wreck" of a
                    childhood. Born in Beech Grove, Indiana, in 1934,
                    Steve McQueen never knew his father. His mother periodically abandoned the boy,
                    shrugged him off on relatives, or took up with abusive alcoholics who turned
                    their fists on him. The insecure child grew into a moody womanizer with a temper
                    and a thirst for danger.
                As a teen, McQueen was an incorrigible risk-taker, a poor student who suffered
                    from dyslexia and took up with Indianapolis gangs to commit petty robberies
                    "as a relief from boredom" (p. 13). In his early 20s, McQueen began a
                    life of acting almost by accident; he was drawn to the New
                        York stage because it allowed him to sleep late in
                    the mornings and work only a few hours at night. McQueen realized that his life
                    had already prepared him for a career as an actor; playing a variety of roles
                    had been a survival tactic for years. "Acting," he once said,
                    "beats stealing hubcaps" (p. 24).
                McQueen joined peers James Dean and Marlon Brando in studying the Method
                    technique. His naturally understated style and his physical charisma brought him
                    to the attention of his teachers and casting directors. He rode the Western
                    genre to success on the small screen and, soon after, became a film star in
                    classics such as The Thomas Crown Affair and The
                        Getaway. McQueen was a hard 
                    worker, Gehring insists, who devoted hours to mastering his props, and the
                    actor's inclination to hide his emotions worked well for him; audiences
                    perceived McQueen as exuding a kind of troubled mystery.
                As Gehring takes the reader through the highlights of McQueen's career and
                    personal life, he balances discussion of the actor's harsher traits with
                    quotes from those who loved him, and provides anecdotes that reveal his
                    lesser-known humorous side. Gehring recounts, for example, the great passion
                    (and volcanic arguments) of McQueen's love affair with and eventual
                    marriage to Ali MacGraw.
                Steve McQueen was candid about his flaws and the reasons behind them. At the root
                    of his life story was the fact that, despite his ability to recognize the
                    deprivations that shaped him, he was unable to get out from under them. Because
                    of this, the book ends on a somewhat melancholy note. After a lifetime searching
                    for a way to prove himself and for "a safe place" (p. 233), McQueen
                    was unable to make peace with the pain and chaos of his early life until his
                    final years, before his death from cancer at the age of fifty.
                Gehring quotes McQueen as saying, "I've done everything there is to do
                    but a lot of my life was wasted" (p. 205). His biographer poignantly
                    disagrees. Believing that the actor squeezed as much living into his short life
                    as possible, albeit much of it self-destructive, Gehring points to
                    McQueen's humility, talent, and devotion to his two children as the
                    star's real legacy. An unabashed fan of McQueen's great escape from
                    both his hardscrabble Indiana childhood and his life-long personal demons,
                    Gehring reminds his readers that "we will always have the films" (p.
                    242). Thanks to this touching and highly readable new biography, readers will
                    regret that there are so few.

                ANDRA ST. IVANYI is a freelance writer and screenplay analyst. She lives in
                            Los Angeles.
            


            
                American Insurgents, American Patriots The Revolution of the
                        People
                    By T. H. Breen (New York: Hill and Wang, 2010. Pp. 337. Notes,
                    index. $27.00.)

                This Violent Empire The Birth of an American National
                        Identity
                    By Carroll Smith-Rosenberg (Chapel
                    Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2010. Pp.
                    xxii, 484. Illustrations, index. $45.00.)

                The theme of violence has been surging to prominence in the writing of early
                    modern American history, and these two books by senior historians  duly place it at the heart of their reevaluations
                    of the American Revolution and the Early American Republic. T. H. Breen and
                    Carroll Smith-Rosenberg, who have enjoyed illustrious academic careers since
                    earning their doctorates in 1968, join a vibrant younger generation of scholars
                    working to counter the tenacity with which the conventional narrative of
                    American history has for so long been sanitized and distorted. Vincent Brown in
                        The Reaper's Garden: Death and Power in the World of
                        Atlantic Slavery (2008) focused on the violence in the history of
                    slavery; Patrick Griffin in American Leviathan: Empire, Nation, and
                        Revolutionary Frontier (2007), and Peter Silver in Our
                        Savage Neighbors: How Indian War Transformed Early America (2007)
                    stressed the violence on the so-called "frontier." To these can now be
                    added Breen's book dramatizing the physical violence of the Revolution, and
                    Smith-Rosenberg's book interrogating the rhetorical violence of the Early
                    Republic. Both historians insist that for us to do justice to the past, these
                    foundational moments of American history must be re-appraised for their violent
                    tendencies, and for the emotionality impelling that violence.
                In Breen's account of the American Revolution the leading emotion is rage,
                    because only rage can explain the inexorable march toward war in the two
                    critical years preceding the War of American Independence. That war would entail
                    tremendous sacrifice and bloodshed, but before the war itself there was a
                    crucial phase of "insurgency," by which Breen means organized popular
                    political resistance. In his previous book, The Marketplace of
                        Revolution: How Consumer Politics Shaped American Independence (2004),
                    Breen had sought to explain what managed to unify colonists living in the
                    thirteen disconnected yet ultimately rebellious colonies; there his answer had
                    been consumer culture and boycott politics. In this follow-up volume, Breen
                    seeks to explain what motivated diverse ordinary people to pursue revolution and
                    to wage war; his answer here is political rage. Other scholars have concentrated
                    their energy on the "genius" of the so-called Founding Fathers, on the
                    intellectual arguments of political pamphlets, and on the vanguard of urban
                    activism, but such an elitist approach cannot, according to Breen, explain a
                    rebellion as widespread as the American Revolution. His spotlight falls instead
                    upon the middling white farming families who constituted, in Breen's
                    estimation, 70 percent of the population in the thirteen rebellious colonies.
                    These were the proverbial ordinary people instigated by the actions of the
                    British imperial government to organize local protest committees, with the
                    unexpected and magnified consequence of fomenting a revolution and sparking a
                    war.
                Breen's story effectively begins with the March 1774 passage of the Coercive
                    Acts in response to the Boston Tea Party, and it ends shy of the Declaration of
                    Independence in  July 1776 with an
                    insurgency by then at full throttle. Breen traces the events and processes
                    through which middling white farming families living in small communities
                    throughout the thirteen rebellious colonies were awakened to political
                    consciousness and incited to political rage: these are the
                    "insurgents" of the book's title. Spurred into action by the
                    Coercive Acts, new protest committees forced increasingly stark choices on their
                    local communities: either you are with us or you are against us. For Breen,
                    these committees became "schools of revolution" which in two
                    years' time managed to overthrow imperial authority in the colonies,
                    leaving King and Parliament with only an unsavory military option to restore
                    order. The committees served simultaneously to channel political rage by those
                    "with us," and to stifle political dissent by those "against
                    us." The emotive and unflinching intimidation of imperial officials as well
                    as "friends of government" (i.e., loyalists) constitutes the
                    unappreciated violence of this crucial phase of the American Revolution. Without
                    an insurgency, Breen insists, there could have been no revolution.
                In Smith-Rosenberg's account of the Early American Republic the leading
                    emotion is not rage but fear, because only fear can explain the venom directed
                    at social scapegoats in the two critical decades following the War of American
                    Independence. The peace treaty of 1783 left the victorious American rebels
                    without any central government or national identity to carry them securely
                    forward into the future. Because the War had disrupted every aspect of life in
                    the thirteen states, it forced an extraordinary burden of re-creation upon
                    citizens of the new nation. Hence a pervasive and abiding fear beset bourgeois
                    and middling urban whites in the postwar era, as they confronted not the
                    imperial beast of Britain, but seemingly intractable economic
                    problems and political tensions within the thirteen independent
                            "United
                            States." Smith-Rosenberg's story begins
                    with the violent outbreak and military suppression of Shays's Rebellion in
                    1786 in western Massachusetts, an episode she
                    considers symptomatic of the ongoing turmoil that would prompt middling urban
                    whites to choose to heap opprobrium on rural farmers, women, Native Americans,
                    and African Americans.
                Scrutinizing the political magazines and the novels of the era, Smith-Rosenberg
                    engages in both psycho-analytic interpretation as well as cultural analysis to
                    pinpoint the terms of this rhetorical violence. Bourgeois and middling urban
                    whites projected their fear and self-loathing onto weaker social
                    groups—"the Other"—in a bid to bolster their own fragile identities
                    and frustrated aims. They sought to construct a binary social world where
                    exclusion of the marginal would enable consolidation of a mainstream: a secure
                    new American ruling class to replace the ousted British. Yet no matter how
                    fiercely  political magazines demonized
                    rural farmers, women, "Indians," and "Africans," none of
                    this managed to produce a coherent nation, a rigid social hierarchy, or a secure
                    ruling class. The magazines' images of "the Other" would remain
                    so riddled with ambiguities and contradictions as to undermine any sense of
                    cultural confidence or social stability for their audience. Scapegoating proved,
                    in the end, a disturbingly weak rhetorical weapon of the self-appointed new
                    American elite.
                In Breen's account of the American Revolution, physical violence succeeded
                    in generating an effective broad-based insurgency against the most powerful
                    empire in the world. In Smith-Rosenberg's account of the Early American
                    Republic, rhetorical violence failed to fortify a new American ruling class, one
                    which held political power but enjoyed neither confidence nor security.
                    Breen's narrative ends optimistically on the cusp of political
                    triumph—independence first declared by force of words and then defended by force
                    of arms—whereas Smith-Rosenberg's narrative ends pessimistically with a
                    fractious degree of fearfulness continuing to plague American history down to
                    the present day. Both books steer us to greater appreciation of the emotionality
                    as well as the violence endemic to two foundational periods of American history
                    where we have been led to least expect it. In so doing, Breen and
                    Smith-Rosenberg help us reconsider the peculiar terms of American history, and
                    of the "American character." Are Americans essentially a violent
                    people?

                KONSTANTIN DIERKS is Associate Professor of History at Indiana University,
                            Bloomington, and the author of In
                        My Power: Letter Writing and Communications in Early America
                    (2009).
            


            
                Big Bone Lick The Cradle of American Paleontology
                    By Stanley Hedeen (Lexington:
                    University Press of Kentucky, 2008. Pp. xviii, 182. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)


                Stanley Hedeen has packed a great deal into one small book. This is a story about
                    a place and an American icon. Americans' fascination with monstrous animals
                    that once roamed the continent, armed with massive teeth—and exemplifying
                    American power—did not begin with the dinosaurs of the nineteenth century.
                Fully a century earlier, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Charles Willson
                    Peale, and a host of others, were engrossed in the study of a different
                    monster—one with ten-foot tusks. We know it today as the mastodon, a relative of
                    the living elephants of Africa and Asia and the extinct "Siberian"
                    mammoth (which  in fact lived all over the
                    northern hemisphere).
                The mastodon lived some 10,000 years ago; just when it became extinct is unclear,
                    but perhaps even during the human occupation of North America. The first
                    mastodon remains were found in the Hudson River Valley around 1700 and the best
                    skeletons were exhumed by Peale, artist, naturalist and showman, in
                            Orange
                            County, New
                            York, around 1800. But the mastodon remains that
                    first captured the public interest, and for decades baffled scientists, came
                    from a site just south of the Ohio
                        River, opposite present-day Cincinnati.
                            Big Bone Lick was a series of marshes and
                    pools, fed by springs made saline by seepage through ancient marine rocks. The
                    lick was created after the glaciers retreated and left a morass, the salt
                    attracting every kind of animal and the mud claiming victim after victim that
                    became entrapped there and preserved. The remains of twenty different large
                    mammals, from mastodon and bison to musk ox and an extinct species of horse,
                    have been found there so far.
                Big Bone
                            Lick provides a snapshot in time comparable to
                    the Rancho La Brea tar pits in California. The Shawnee people of
                    the eastern United
                            States knew the region well and had several
                    legends about the "Great Buffalo" that terrorized the region so badly
                    that "the Great Man above" chased the last big bull "over the
                        Ohio, over the
                        Wabash, the
                        Illinois, and
                    finally over the great lakes, where he is living at this day."
                As soon as it was agreed that the mastodon or "incognitum" (unknown)
                    was some kind of elephant, debate arose. Many, like Thomas Jefferson, hoped that
                    it was a ferocious carnivore. But, if it was a type of elephant, what was a
                    denizen of warm climates doing so far up in the chilly north? Had there been a
                    momentous change in climate in the past? Perhaps the earth's axis of
                    rotation had shifted. Alternatively, perhaps the remains at
                            Big
                            Bone Lick simply represented animals drowned in
                    Noah's Flood and washed far to the north of their original habitat.
                Jefferson, in his magisterial Notes on the State of Virginia
                    (1785), was the first to state clearly that different kinds of elephants had
                    lived in different climates, warm or cool. But for all his prescience, Jefferson
                    could not accept that the mastodon, or any creature, had become extinct. He
                    believed, with the Shawnee, that it now lived in the far west, towards the Great
                    Stony Mountains.
                Hedeen tells the story of Big Bone Lick from all viewpoints: geological,
                    palaeontological, and human. A fascinating range of frontier types collected
                    bones at the licks. One bizarre story from the site's history was the
                    attempt to develop it into a spa, complete with resort hotel where, two
                    centuries before, Indians had forced white captives to boil salt for trade.
                This is a complete account, although Hedeen does not cite the letter from
                    naturalist Benjamin Smith  Barton to
                    Jefferson in 1810, reporting that the Indians had seen not only tusks, bones,
                    and giant teeth at Big Bone
                        Lick, but also preserved elephant trunks. It would
                    be fascinating to know if this were true (the first live elephant was displayed
                    in America in 1797). Perhaps Big Bone
                        Lick has secrets still to be revealed, but this
                    book is a wonderful summary of a complex site with a special place in American
                    history.
                KEITH THOMSON is Professor Emeritus of Natural History at the University of
                    Oxford and Senior Research Fellow at the American Philosophical Society. His
                    most recent books are The Legacy of the Mastodon (2008), A Passion for Nature: Thomas Jefferson and Natural History
                    (2008), and The Young Charles Darwin (2009).
            


            
                Horses at Work Harnessing Power in Industrial America
                    By Ann Norton Greene (Cambridge,
                            Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2008. Pp. xiv,
                    322. Illustrations, charts, notes, index. $29.95.)
                Horses have only recently attracted the attention of academic historians. Within
                    a period of a few years—2006 to 2009—a sudden flurry of books has appeared,
                    particularly from academic presses, devoted to the horse and its role in society
                    from the late eighteenth to the early twentieth century centuries. Horses at Work: Harnessing Power in Industrial America is one of these
                    books. With a broad focus on the geographic area of the American Northeast and
                    Midwest (and emphasis on New York and
                            Pennsylvania), Ann Norton Greene assesses the role
                    of the horse in industry, cities, and war over the nineteenth century. She deals
                    less with the type of work most commonly associated with the horse—namely,
                    farming.
                The book begins with an excellent and pertinent discussion of the horse's
                    traction abilities and the comparable capacity (or lack thereof) of other
                    species. The author assesses roads and their construction in light of the
                    horse's ability to pull. The advent of the steam engine enhanced the need
                    for horses, and Greene interweaves the development of transportation
                    technology—for example, the making of stagecoaches, and their wheels and shock
                    systems—with the history of the horse. Boats needed horses to pull the vessels
                    along the water from the riverside; in general, horses were so essential to the
                    functioning of a city that the widespread presence of the equine disease
                    glanders could bring business to a stand-still.
                
                Greene's chapter on the role of the horse in the American Civil War is
                    perhaps the most valuable part of the book. Surprisingly little historical
                    material exists on horses and the military—that is, on the breeding of
                    warhorses, the purchase of the stock, and the methods of transporting the
                    animals themselves as well as the feed, saddles, harness, and shoes that they
                    required.
                When people appear within this horse-centered study, it is mostly as users, or
                    consumers, of the stock. The author examines what people did with the animals,
                    and how horse power fed the development of industries and various technologies.
                    Breeding theory and culture are not central to her study, although she does
                    address the issues at least briefly. Since work has been done on these topics,
                    however, the book augments the horse story in a valuable way.
                My most serious problems with the book are the poverty of footnotes and the lack
                    of a bibliography. Sparse documentation weakens the robustness of the
                    author's arguments and makes it hard to see the underpinning research. It
                    may be that Greene aimed this book at a general audience, but her work would be
                    more valuable if the reader could discern how it fits into the existing
                    literature, and could determine the extent of her use of primary sources.
                    Perhaps this is a minor point from someone who is deeply interested in her
                    subject. Overall, this book greatly enhances our knowledge of the working horse
                    and its essential role in society.

                MARGARET E. DERRY is an adjunct professor in the History Department,
                    University of Guelph, Ontario. Derry has
                    published three books on animal breeding (cattle, dogs, and horses), including
                        Horses in Society: A Story of Animal Breeding and Marketing,
                        1800-1920 (2006), on the breeding and uses of working horses in North
                    America.
            


            
                Emancipation's Diaspora Race and Reconstruction in the
                        Upper Midwest
                    By Leslie A. Schwalm (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press,
                    2009. Pp. xii, 387. Illustrations, photographs, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $65.00; paperbound, $24.95.)
                Emancipation's Diaspora: Race and Reconstruction in the Upper
                        Midwest is a much needed addition to the growing historiography on
                    emancipation and Reconstruction. Leslie Schwalm asserts that emancipation was
                    not confined to the South, but had consequences elsewhere. The book examines
                    those consequences in the Upper Midwest—specifically, in Iowa,
                            Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
                    Moreover, it adds to a new but growing body of work on African American history
                    in that region—literature  that includes
                    Jack Blocker's A Little More Freedom: African Americans Enter
                        the Urban Midwest (2008).
                One of the two central goals of Emancipation's Diaspora is
                    to examine the movement and dispersal of formerly enslaved African Americans,
                    prompted by the Civil War and emancipation. Although migration long had been a
                    feature of slavery and oppression, Schwalm contends that enslaved people
                    transformed it into an "avenue for liberation" (p. 46). She pinpoints
                    three distinct paths of African American migration to the Upper Midwest before,
                    during, and after the Civil War—analyzing the reasons that people migrated and
                    sought refuge in temporary camps behind Union lines, the conditions they endured
                    in those camps, the impact of wartime legislation on their migration, and the
                    conscious and calculated decisions they made to settle permanently in one region
                    over another. Schwalm illustrates how certain cities such as
                            Helena, Arkansas,
                            Cairo, Illinois, and
                            St. Louis, Missouri, served
                    as important gateway cities in the longer journey to freedom in the North. While
                    the author adequately proves how wartime migrations accelerated the destruction
                    of slavery and made emancipation a national event, her book's most
                    important contribution is its emphasis on the significance of the process and the act of migrating. Consequently,
                    African Americans are depicted here as conscious and deliberate, if not
                    empowered, actors who made critical decisions about their own futures.
                The book's secondary goal is to examine the impact of the politics of race
                    and emancipation in the Upper Midwest. The author contends that whites inflated
                    and exaggerated the scale of black migration and its associated
                    dangers—amplifying and intensifying anti-black sentiment to the point of
                    near-hysteria. Whites in the region feared that African Americans' physical
                    mobility would lead to their social mobility, and they fiercely resisted both.
                    Moreover, the climate led midwestern whites to interpret the federal
                    government's gestures to integrate African Americans more fully into the
                    body politic and society as evidence that the government favored African
                    Americans at their own expense. Midwestern whites also feared that freed people
                    would take their jobs and usurp white political prerogatives. They responded to
                    this perceived threat to their status and whiteness with a cache of political
                    weapons and imagery designed to vigorously defend white supremacy. For example,
                    they erected and enforced segregation laws and practices, idealized gender
                    roles, attempted to control public spaces, and demanded that certain jobs
                    exclude African Americans (p. 105). Schwalm contends that anti-black rhetoric
                    and action extended beyond the political and public arenas, manifesting
                    themselves in everyday life—including mass meetings, associational life,
                    households, and private correspondence (p. 84).
                
                The second half of the book focuses on the lives that African Americans crafted
                    in the region after emancipation and migration. Chapter Four outlines how
                    African Americans articulated and justified demands for full freedom and
                    citizenship. Schwalm contends that men and women "experienced their
                    participation...in ways that that included the subjectively symbolic, material,
                    relational, and physical meanings of gender" (p. 107). In fact, her
                    analysis of the construction and meanings of gender is a real strength of this
                    work. Chapter Five delves deep inside the institutional lives of African
                    Americans, emphasizing the significance of fraternal and sororal associations in
                    defining, shaping, pursuing, and defending freedom and citizenship—and in
                    shaping gender roles. Perhaps the most innovative part of Emancipation's Diaspora is Chapter Seven, which examines how
                    African Americans publicly commemorated their collective memory of slavery.
                    Emancipation Day celebrations provide the predominant lens for this inquiry, but
                    the author also relies on pension claims, death notices, and postbellum slave
                    narratives to enhance her argument. According to Schwalm, the historical record
                    proves that acknowledging slavery and its trauma was a critical aspect of
                    African Americans' collective identity and of their post-war activism.
                Emancipation's Diaspora follows the unlikely and uncharted
                    path of African Americans' Civil War migration into a region not typically
                    associated with African American history. This book persuasively demonstrates
                    that historians would be remiss to ignore the consequences of emancipation and
                    its subsequent diaspora in regions outside of the slave South—specifically, the
                    Upper Midwest.

                NIKKI TAYLOR is Assistant Professor of History at the University of
                    Cincinnati. She is the author of Frontiers of Freedom:
                        Cincinnati's Black Community, 1802-1868 (2005).
            


            
                Lynching and Spectacle Witnessing Racial Violence in
                        America, 1890-1940
                    By Amy Louise Wood (Chapel
                    Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2009. Pp.
                    xiii, 349. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)

                In his 1937 novel Black Boy, Richard Wright reflected,
                    "The things which influenced my conduct as a Negro did not have to happen
                    to me directly; I needed but to hear of them to feel their full effects."
                    Yet lynching was not performed solely to influence the behavior of African
                    Americans. Amy Louise Wood argues that lynching was carried out for the
                    instruction of its white audience as much as for its
                    black one. The brutal practice was used to bind whites together as a unified
                    group in spite of class, gender, and religious differences. Wood claims that
                    "the cultural power of lynching—indeed, the cultural power of white
                    supremacy itself—rested on spectacle" (p. 3). This is a study of how
                    lynching drew on a culture of spectacles—public executions, religious
                    ceremonies, theater, photography, and cinema—to reinforce white supremacy, and
                    ultimately how critics utilized that spectacle to turn public opinion against
                    the practice.
                Organized chronologically and thematically, the book analyzes three broad
                    elements of lynching: its dependence on sensationalism, the relationship between
                    the local and the national, and the practice's connection to modernity. No
                    spectacle better exemplified the turn-of-the-century contest between local and
                    state power than public executions. When the state deemed private executions
                    more civilized, lynch mobs reclaimed local authority but "saw themselves as
                    extensions of the state" (p. 46). White mobs likewise used religious
                    ceremonies to justify their actions and to demonstrate that they were rational,
                    modern, and civilized.
                In an insightful discussion of lynching photography and early cinema, Wood
                    examines the capacity of modern technology to uphold anti-modern forms of social
                    power. Wood deftly utilizes visual theory without losing sight of how locals
                    perceived and circulated the images. Her analysis makes many familiar images
                    newly appalling to the reader. With thorough attention to the importance of
                    gender, Wood demonstrates that photos made lynching "safe" for a white
                    audience by freezing the body in time and place.
                The spectacle of lynching eventually led to its demise. Images circulated by the
                    NAACP and films such as MGM's Fury (1936) shifted the
                    emphasis from the broken black body to the mob itself. Gleeful white mobs
                    demonstrated that lynching was irrational, antimodern, and antithetical to
                    American ideals. Some critiques were effective because the victims, such as two
                    men killed in San Jose in 1933, were white.
                    Southern newspaper editors, fearing an economic backlash, could thus adopt
                    anti-lynching rhetoric without feeling attacked as a region. By World War II,
                    critics had created the national perception that law and order were the real
                    victims of the practice. Whites could turn against lynching without abandoning
                    their white supremacist ideals.
                Wood focuses primarily on the lynching of African American men in the modernizing
                            South—Georgia, Texas, and
                            Mississippi—but one of the work's greatest
                    strengths is the interplay between local and national contexts. Although it is
                    difficult to understand how viewers received films and images, Wood is careful
                    to focus on what can be known: the words of local critics; the intentions  of filmmakers; which films theater owners
                    chose to screen in particular locations; and which photographs news editors
                    chose to publish. Yet the relationship between reality and representation is not
                    always clear. Did viewers ever doubt the authenticity of photographs as they
                    became technologically savvy and more accustomed to cinematic productions?
                    Continued research on the reception of such spectacles would be welcome. Lynching and Spectacle is an excellent example of how visual
                    culture and theory can enhance historical research without obscuring the
                    argument. This work is recommended for historians interested in how race and
                    violence worked together to shape popular culture, and vice versa.

                SHANNON SMITH BENNETT is a doctoral candidate in the History Department,
                    Indiana University, Bloomington.
            


            
                Civic Passions Seven Who Launched Progressive America (and
                        What They Teach Us) By Cecelia Tichi
                    (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
                    Press, 2009. Pp. xviii, 382. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)


                Cecelia Tichi's new book on the Progressive Era exhorts the reader to
                    reconsider Progressive passions and accomplishments through narrative accounts
                    of seven noted Progressive leaders: Alice Hamilton, John R. Commons, Julia
                    Lathrop, Florence Kelley, Louis D. Brandeis, Walter Rauschenbusch, and Ida B.
                    Wells-Barnett. Tichi's purpose is to rouse current civic passions by
                    drawing parallels between the concerns of the often quaint-seeming Progressive
                    reformers of the turn of the century and the glaring flaws and corruption of our
                    own polities. Central to this exercise is the vibrant concept of the public good
                    that each of these reformers held up as a beacon in their often exhausting and
                    risky work as public intellectuals and activists.
                Tichi's book is beautifully written and each chapter succeeds in gripping
                    readers by plunging them into the middle of the subject's stream of life,
                    generally at a pivotal moment in his or her career. Tichi begins her account of
                    Alice Hamilton's career as a pathbreaking industrial toxicologist with her
                    confrontation of Edward Cornish, vice president of the National Lead Company,
                    over the poisoning of workers in his plants. She catches the labor economist
                    John R. Commons on a train platform with some of his students as they embark for
                            Pittsburgh to study the health and welfare of
                    laborers and their families.
                Ida B. Wells-Barnett brings up the rear in this parade of research-oriented
                    superstars, and the jaded reader might initially see her as the  "token" African American in this group.
                    But Tichi makes her purpose clear when near the end of the chapter she points
                    out the blind spot toward racial discrimination and harassment shared by
                    virtually all her white reformers except, perhaps, Florence Kelley.
                Indiana is well represented in this collection by
                    Alice Hamilton (child of Fort
                        Wayne), and the Midwest more generally by the
                            Chicago connections of so many of these
                    figures. Commons, it might be noted, was a Wisconsin professor.
                Tichi concludes the work with a bristling and effective rundown of the civic
                    offenses of private corporations, communication empires, and financial
                    institutions in the period after 2000. She points out that the past resonates in
                    the present, as "private" succeeds "public" as a term of
                    praise in recommending any scheme of reform or philanthropy.
                This is a good book. This reviewer will consider it for use in her undergraduate
                    course on the period from 1900 to 1940. For someone who agrees with the basic
                    analysis and political ideology Tichi lays out, it is tempting to let her do
                    that work with today's undergraduates. There are pitfalls, of course, for
                    historians in using works that pull no ideological punches and work on the
                    individual heroism model of social change—though here there is certainly an
                    underlying social structural analysis.
                This reviewer also must note, alas, that it was not hard for her to discover the
                    bibliography's less than encyclopedic reach, since two of her own works
                    were omitted from the core listings: an analytic history of the settlement
                    movement (represented here by Allen Davis's wonderful but even older Spearheads for Reform) and a detailed biographical article on
                    Agnes Hamilton, cousin of Alice Hamilton, and their shared passion for social
                    change through settlement house activism. That one was published in this very
                    magazine, in fact. A spot check of other obvious titles found them all. If this
                    reviewer were prone to paranoia, she would have good grounds here—but instead
                    she chooses to take these lacunae as a humbling reminder of the fleeting nature
                    of even academic notoriety.

                MINA CARSON is Associate Professor of History at Oregon State University and
                    the author of Settlement Folk: Social Thought and the American
                        Settlement Movement, 1885-1930 (1990) and "Agnes Hamilton of Fort
                    Wayne: The Education of a Christian Settlement Worker," Indiana Magazine of History, 80 (March 1984).
            


            
            
                Record Makers and Breakers Voices of Independent Rock
                        'n' Roll Pioneers
                    By John Broven (Urbana: University of Illinois
                    Press, 2009. Pp. xiv, 584. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $50.00.)


                According to Marshall Chess, "a record man did everything. He found the
                    artist, he produced the record, he promoted it, he sold it with the
                    distributors." Ordering records, pressing and printing labels, collecting
                    money from juke box companies, radio stations, and music stores, "it was
                    all part of the job." (p. 117).
                Through their small, independent companies, many of these men (and a few women)
                    became rhythm & blues and rock 'n' roll pioneers in the 1940s and
                    '50s. In Record Makers and Breakers, John Broven, a
                    freelance writer with a longstanding interest in popular music, tells their
                    stories. Based on one hundred interviews with key players in the industry, the
                    book celebrates its subjects for "giving opportunities for almost every
                    artist of any merit" and becoming "inadvertent social innovators by
                    igniting a lasting cultural reformation" (p. 470).
                A narrative history, Record Makers and Breakers is often
                    uncritical and only lightly analytical. Broven does not set the context, for
                    example, to evaluate comments about the exploitation of African American artists
                    by "indies" owners, who often insisted on songwriting credits and
                    underpaid royalties. He does not follow up on the assertion of one record man
                    that performers were not really cheated because distributors worked hard to get
                    the music on the air. And Broven's chapter-long discussion of payola, which
                    he labels (and seems to excuse as) "an integral part of the fabric of
                    capitalist society, no matter what industry, being especially rife in
                    politics" (p. 459), sheds no new light on the practice.
                Although Broven did not "cross-examine" his subjects on controversial
                    issues, he has made a useful contribution to the scholarship of American popular
                    music by conducting—and making available—his interviews with so many industry
                    professionals. Broven talked to the usual suspects: Jerry Wexler and Ahmet
                    Ertegun of Atlantic Records; Art Rupe of Specialty Records; Joe Bihari of Modern
                    Records; and Sam Phillips of Sun Records. His conversations with little or
                    lesser-known owners of "indies," however, provide new on-the-ground
                    details about the business, which was often operated on a shoe string. Abraham
                    "Pop" Cohen, the owner of Essex distributors in New
                        Jersey, employed his sons Irv and Joe as front men, had
                    a nose for spotting potential bad debts as well as hit records, and relied on a
                    unique form of payola: "Mom" Cohen's "cakes, knishes,
                    strudels and blintzes" (p. 218). Cosimo Matassa ran the J&M Recording
                    Studio in New Orleans as  part of a family-run operation that included the
                    sale of kitchen and bathroom appliances. Although his facilities, as Matassa put
                    it, were put together with "spit and wire" (p. 181), J&M became
                    the go-to destination of anyone interested in Fats Domino.
                In the aftermath of the payola scandals, Broven reminds us, the "record
                    men-disc jockey-distributor network was crumbling" (p. 460). As the British
                    Invasion made it clear that rock 'n' roll was here to stay (and pay),
                    the major labels intensified their efforts to gobble up star performers and more
                    than a few of the "indies" themselves. The "merry band of
                    mavericks," Broven concludes, with the nostalgia that permeates his book,
                    was reined in by "natural economic forces and technological
                    revolution." Once wide-open record markets had matured, as markets
                    "always do." And "the energetic excitement" drained,
                    "as it always does" (p. 470).

                GLENN C. ALTSCHULER is the Thomas and Dorothy Litwin Professor of American
                    Studies at Cornell University and the author of All Shook Up: How
                        Rock 'n' Roll Changed America. (2003).
            


            
                Understanding Jonestown and Peoples Temple
                    By Rebecca Moore (Westport, Conn.: Praeger Publishers, 2009. Pp. xi, 179. Notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)


                "Are you an activist yourself? Do you believe in the practical approach to
                    resolving human problems?" This advertisement appeared in a May 1976 issue
                    of the newspaper Peoples Forum. As a longtime chronicler and
                    analyst of Jim Jones, Jonestown, and the Peoples Temple, Rebecca Moore has built
                    a career out of interpreting the pragmatic appeal of such promotions. Much of
                    her explanatory narrative agrees with novelist Shiva Naipaul's assessment
                    that "Jim Jones built his movement on the debris of the Sixties; on its
                    frustrations, failures, and apostasies" (p. 22). At its height, Peoples
                    Temple boasted a membership of 20,000, but it never represented a
                    demographically significant trend in American religion. Rather, due to its
                    tragic conclusion, Peoples Temple—and, colloquially, its poisoned Kool-Aid—has
                    become a metonym for brainwashing and blind obedience. Through Moore's
                    scholarly stewardship, Peoples Temple and Jonestown become instead
                    quintessentially American. As she writes, "Peoples Temple was a homegrown
                    religion and, at its heart, reflected American institutions" (p. 6). From
                    its beginnings, the church of Jim Jones embodied patterns in U.S.
                    religious sociology. After many shifts of congregational name and location, the
                    Peoples Temple  Christian Church Full Gospel
                    took root in Indianapolis,
                            Indiana, as a Disciples of Christ church renowned
                    for its Pentecostal-style healing services and interracial congregation. Moore
                    tracks Jones on the long religious journey that took him as a young man through
                    Methodist, Nazarene, Pentecostal, and Quaker meetings in the 1930s and 1940s;
                    then, as an entrepreneurial pastor, on scouting trips in the 1950s to see Father
                    Divine's Peace Mission movement; and, as an emerging prophet, on missionary
                    explorations to Cuba, Guyana, and Brazil in the
                    1960s. Like the Peace Mission movement he so admired, Jones's Peoples
                    Temple became as well known for its free food and social services as it did for
                    his passionate sermons. This Social Gospel impulse attracted working-class
                    whites and blacks seeking immediate response to the grotesque inequalities of
                    capitalism. "Social justice," Moore writes, "became an important
                    and perhaps central element of Peoples Temple's theology" (p. 27).
                Part reportage and part critical historiography, Moore's account moves
                    expertly through thickets of evidence, from newspapers and government reports to
                    Jonestown recordings and first-person accounts. When Jones moves his church to
                            California in 1965, she expands her analysis to
                    include the social context of the Bay area and the contemporaneous political
                    projects to which Jones committed as a civic figure. When the Temple relocated
                    again from California to Guyana in 1977, she
                    sifts and considers a variety of positions to achieve a redacted account. Was
                    their migration to Guyana prompted by a fear that the IRS would
                    freeze the Temple's assets? Or was it worries over child custody battles?
                    Or was it because the community became convinced by Jones's argument that a
                    fascist takeover was imminent in the United States? Moore draws no neat
                    conclusions. Instead, Chapters Four, Five, and Six supply an elegant appraisal
                    of the sociologies, psychologies, and theologies that concluded in the November
                    1978 suicide of 900 Jonestown occupants. With analysis of external and internal
                    forces, Moore's description builds into a devastating symphony of irritants
                    (government investigations, news reporters) and aggravations (defecting leaders,
                    material circumstances, psychical terror). In the year leading up to it, there
                    had been a half-dozen such "White Nights," or ritual occasions in
                    which people were led to believe by Jones that they were threatened, and that
                    there was only one way to preserve their dream. Through Moore's judicious
                    rendering, the story of Peoples Temple is no longer mere madness. Instead, it
                    appears as a utopian journey whose catastrophic millennialism belies its
                    midwestern origins, as well as its optimistic advertisements of progress,
                    communal labor, and real equality.
                
                KATHRYN LOFTON is Assistant Professor of American Studies and Religious
                    Studies at Yale University. Her first book, Oprah: The Gospel of an
                        Icon, is forthcoming in 2011.
            


            
                To Shake Their Guns in the Tyrant's Face Libertarian
                        Political Violence and the Origins of the Militia Movement
                    By Robert H. Churchill (Ann Arbor:
                    University of Michigan Press, 2009. Pp. xii, 370. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $35.00.)


                Robert Churchill attempts something daring in To Shake Their Guns in
                        the Tyrant's Face. He firmly positions the modern militia
                    movement—widely despised and feared as dangerous and "extremist"—in
                    an American political and intellectual tradition that defined our founding. The
                    book attempts to answer the question that Churchill frames in his introduction:
                    "[H]ow do certain ideas, movements, and political impulses come to be
                    considered extremist?" (p. 3). Churchill understands American history well
                    enough to know—as many of the opinion makers and media appalled by modern
                    militias do not—that "the militias' assertion of a right to use armed
                    force to change government policy" is not something "new, threatening,
                    or beyond the pale of legitimate politics" but rather "achingly
                    familiar," in the face of what the militia members see as "the
                    exercise of unconstitutional power by the federal government" (p. 3).
                Churchill sees in modern militias the principle that underlay our Declaration of
                    Independence and the Revolutionary War that accompanied it: that citizens have
                    the right and even duty to rise up forcefully against state attempts to violate
                    their rights. In telling the story of the militias' institutions and ideas,
                    Churchill shines a light of understanding, if not approval.
                The stories Churchill tells trace the occasional revival of the American
                    insurrectionist spirit after the Revolutionary era and up to the 1990s. He
                    understands that it is clearly a good thing for peaceful civic order that
                    America is not regularly wracked by political violence. He tells of Fries'
                    Rebellion (which arose from the Alien and Sedition Act controversies of
                    1798-99); the Sons of Liberty insurrection against Lincoln's government in
                            Indiana in 1863-64; and the "Black
                    Legion" that arose in the Midwest in opposition to Roosevelt's
                    policies in 1936. None of these groups, no matter how much one might approve (or
                    disapprove) of their specific grievances, has a particularly noble story to tell
                    for themselves.
                Churchill also puts forth a broader view of the evolution of Americans'
                    implicit political philosophy: we have lost, he says, the  notion that the government could ever violate its
                    citizens' liberties to such an extent that sitting back and taking it is
                    not the preferred response. Loyalty to the nation has almost entirely superseded
                    loyalty to its constitutional principles of limited government.
                And that is exactly how most Americans want it. Churchill cannot come up with a
                    singular convincing answer as to why our regnant political
                    ideology has so shifted, but neither has anyone else. Complicated shifts in our
                    national political and intellectual history, together with changes in both
                    circumstances and ideas, have created a society in which, as Churchill writes,
                    we have "a new patriotic identity based on loyalty, obedience, and a state
                    monopoly on violence" (p. 22).
                In the face of an intellectual and political status quo that writes off
                            America's founding intellectual tradition as
                    dangerously extremist, Churchill has performed a signal service in documenting
                    that the concept of legitimate political violence has a long historical
                    tradition in America, and that even a movement as despised as
                    the modern militia raises valuable questions about civic responsibility in the
                    face of unconstitutional, even tyrannical, state behavior.
                The Second Amendment was recently revived for the purposes of personal defense in
                    the 2008 Heller case. Churchill reminds us that it had a
                    larger civic purpose that we have chosen to forget, and that those who refer to
                    that purpose are not necessarily motivated merely by racial or class-based
                    animus and madness.

                BRIAN DOHERTY is a senior editor at Reason magazine and author of Radicals for Capitalism: A Freewheeling History of the Modern
                        American Libertarian Movement and Gun Control on Trial (2007).
            


            

            
                [Editors' Note: As part of our IMH for Teachers program, we will begin
                    offering reviews by teachers (and their students, as is the case with the review
                    below) on how a book functions within the classroom context. If you are
                    currently teaching, or have taught, Indiana history at any grade level and would
                    like to submit your review of a book (other than a textbook) that you have used
                    in your classroom, please contact us.]
            

            
                The Native Americans Peopling Indiana, Volume 2
                    By Elizabeth Glenn & Stewart Rafert (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society
                    Press, 2009. Pp. 130. Illustrations, notes, index. $13.95.)


                While evident in the nature of its name but often lost amongst other strands of
                    its identity, Indiana was and still is, thanks in part to Elizabeth Glenn and
                    Stewart Rafert's The Native Americans, "The Land of
                    the Indians." In the first centuries of white colonization, the land
                    existed beyond the conscious thought of most Europeans, although trading routes
                    passed along many of its rivers. The Delaware, the Miami, and the Potawatomi, to
                    name only a few tribes, lived in relative isolation and, for the most part, in
                    relative peace.
                The War of 1812 and the needs of a burgeoning nation changed everything. Keenly
                    aware of the vast resources that resided on the other side of the mountains,
                    white settlers began to pour into this land of the Indians. By the middle of the
                    nineteenth century, the land had become another tragic locale for the removal of
                    many of its original occupants. While most historians may be tempted to stop at
                    this point of removal, Glenn (professor emerita of anthropology at Ball State
                    University) and Rafert (adjunct professor of history at the University of
                    Delaware and author of The Miami Indians of Indiana) press on
                    to the present day.
                Glenn and Rafert lead us through a chronological discussion of the history of the
                    peoples who once and, in some cases, still do occupy this land. Beginning with
                    "Original Ethnic Groups" reaching as far back as 11,500 years, the
                    authors detail the lifestyles, cultural values, and societal structures of the
                    inhabitants of what became Indiana. The authors proceed to show the various
                    legal and cultural struggles that tribal peoples in Indiana, particularly the
                    Miami and the Potawatomi, had to navigate. Each chapter focuses on a period of
                    time lasting two to four decades, in effect telling the stories of the tribes in
                    generational eras. This structure allows the authors to highlight key
                    individuals and events that give a local quality to this history.
                As an historical treatise, Glenn and Rafert's work comes with both strengths
                    and weaknesses. One of the strengths is the gripping, informative writing style
                    that allows the authors  to offer a concise
                    introduction to the story of tribal peoples in Indiana. The book is accessible
                    to lay readers, whether they are college students, high school students, or
                    interested individuals thoroughly removed from any connection to
                    Indiana or its
                    tribal peoples.
                However, some critical concerns do emerge. The concluding section of the book
                    leads away from a discussion of tribal peoples in Indiana, describing instead a more general view of
                    tribal peoples in America. Another weakness is the brief nature of
                    some of the information offered concise writing makes for engaging reading but
                    it can also sacrifice depth, for example, in descriptions of important
                    historical figures including Chief Pokagon and Chief Little Turtle.
                Together, we initially read this book as part of a college class focused not only
                    on the history of tribal peoples but also on the relationships we now share with
                    them as fellow members of the social fabric currently defining
                            Indiana. We wanted to know more about the past,
                    present, and future of tribal peoples here in Indiana. A number of good books
                    exist concerning particular tribal groups. However, no singular text deals
                    directly with the lives of these peoples within the particular geographical
                    boundaries that now define Indiana. We found this book to be capable of filling
                    that void.
                In general, our responses to this book as teacher and students were quite
                    comparable. We met each week over the course of a six-week period to discuss the
                    material found in each chapter along with matters such source utilization and
                    historiographical commitments. As previously mentioned, we determined that the
                    book possessed certain weaknesses. However, we also found that high school or
                    college classes with comparable interests would be well served by this text.
                    Individuals with interests in Indiana or midwestern history would also be well
                    served.
                Overall, Glenn and Rafert present a strong assessment of the significance of
                    tribal peoples in the story of Indiana. The chronological structure of the book
                    ensures easy access for a wide range of readers, and the authors provide a
                    lengthy list of primary and secondary sources. The story told by Glenn and
                    Rafert reminds us in a convincing manner that before Indiana, before the idea of
                    a land of borders and fences, free peoples called this land home and that those
                    peoples underwent a transformation that almost destroyed their story.
                TODD C. REAM is the Associate Director of the John Wesley Honors College
                    at Indiana Wesleyan University. LUKE NELSEN and AARON MORRISON are students in
                    the John Wesley Honors College.
            


            

        
        
            
            
            
            
    
