
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 82, Issue 3, pages 223-302. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:82+issue:3+year:1986&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Hoosier at 
                        Harvard
                    
            
            William E. Wilson∗
            
            It was 1923, late August, in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, where I was born. I was seventeen. On the telephone Mr. John O. Chewning,
                    principal of Central High School, from which I had graduated in June, was asking me if I would like
                    to go to 
                        Harvard
                    . At that time, for reasons that I can no longer remember, I thought I wanted to go to
                    Yale.
            But Yale was still a year or two away. My father had just been elected to Congress from the old First
                    District of Indiana, and the family would be moving to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.1 I planned to enroll in one of the colleges in 
                        Washington
                     and later transfer to Yale if my grades were good enough. Thus I would avoid the
                    entrance examinations that only a few colleges required in those days. It was true that I had so far
                    neglected to advise Yale University of my intentions or any of the institutions of higher learning
                    in 
                        Washington
                     on my list, for that matter. But in 1923 going to college was a more casual business
                    than it is today; in most instances one simply packed one's bag at the last minute and
                    went.
            
               
                  ∗ William E. Wilson is James A. Work professor of English
                        emeritus, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . At times a reporter for the 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Press and New 
                     Bedford, Massachusetts
                  , Standard and associate editor of the 
                            Baltimore
                        
                        Evening Sun, Wilson has also authored numerous historical works and novels.
                        Included are The 
                                Wabash
                             (Rivers of America series; 
                            New York
                        , 1940); The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1964); Crescent City (
                            New York
                        , 1947); and Every Man Is My Father (
                            New York
                        , 1973). According to Wilson, "A Hoosier at 
                            Harvard
                        " is to be the opening chapter of "an
                        autobiography-in-progress." One brief portion of the reminiscence is adapted from an
                        earlier essay that appeared in the "John Harvard's Journal" section
                        of 
                     
                                Harvard
                             Magazine, LXXXIV (January-February, 1982), 72–73.
               
                  1 In 1923 Indiana's First Congressional District included Gibson, 
                            Pike
                        , Posey, 
                     Spencer, Vanderburgh
                  , and 
                            Warrick
                         counties. William Edward Wilson (1870–1948), the author's
                        father, represented the district in the 
                            United States
                         House of Representatives for one term, 1923–1925. He ran unsuccessfully
                        for the same office in 1920 and 1924.
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXII (September, 1986). 1986, Trustees of Indiana
                    University.
            
            
            "
                        Harvard
                    —?" I said to Mr. Chewning.
            I told him then that I had never given 
                        Harvard
                     much thought. In fact, I said, I was considering Yale. Next year, maybe. Or the year
                    after. I tried to sound blasé, but actually I was in a state of mild shock. 
                        Harvard
                    —? Me—? 
                        Harvard
                     and Yale were places only to dream about. No one I knew ever really went to 
                        Harvard
                     or Yale. Hadn't I said to Mr. Chewning, "Next year, maybe, or the
                    year after"?
            But Mr. Chewning was not a man to waste time chasing rainbows. He said he was not talking about next
                    year, he was talking about next month. 
                        Harvard
                     classes would begin in September. He made it sound as if my shilly-shallying might
                    disrupt the schedule of a great university.
            He went on to explain that he had just returned from a vacation and found a letter from 
                        Harvard
                     on his desk offering, for the first time, admission without examinations to the two top
                    male graduates from certain selected public high schools. He told me it was a great honor for
                    Central of 
                        Evansville
                     to be one of those selected. My friend Alexander Leich, who had the highest
                    boys' grade average in my class, was seriously considering the opportunity, Mr. Chewning
                        said.2 He reminded me then that I stood second to Alex in rank. Now he was
                    making me feel as if I owed an immediate decision not only to 
                        Harvard
                     College but also to Central High School and Alexander Leich. Mr. Chewning had a very
                    persuasive way. His favorite maxim was "A hint to the wise is sufficient."
            I told him I would talk with my parents.
            I talked with my parents.
            My father was enthusiastic. The 
                        Harvard
                     brochure projected an average cost of a freshman year at $1,500;
                    Father's salary as a congressman was $7,500; he said he thought one-fifth of a
                    man's salary to educate a son at 
                        Harvard
                     was a bargain. (Recently, Alex Leich, who today interviews prospective 
                        Harvard
                     students from southern Indiana, told me that the projected cost of a freshman year in
                    1985–1986 was $16,300. The 1986 World Almanac gives the
                    salary of a member of Congress as $75,100.) My mother remarked several times during the
                    family conference, with quiet dubiety, that winters in New 
                        England
                     were very cold. (In her girlhood she had spent a winter once with an uncle and aunt in
                    Norton, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where Wheaton College is located.) My 
                  
                     2 Alexander L. Leich, now retired, later became vice-president and
                            treasurer of the family wholesale drug firm, Charles Leich and Company, in 
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     sister Isabelle contributed to the debate by stating flatly
                    that she had not cared for Yale University ever since I read to her "that book about
                        Stover."3 (My dear sister was blind, and occasionally I read to her
                    books that interested me—with something less than pure altruism, obviously.)
            After our conference at home, we conferred with the Leichs. Alex's parents said that Alex,
                    who was only sixteen, could go to 
                        Harvard
                     if I went. They thought he was too young to go alone. Before I had time to make myself
                    obnoxious by assuming an avuncular air with Alex, my parents promptly said that I, too, was too
                    young to go to 
                        Harvard
                     alone but I could go if Alex went.
            Alex and I decided to go.
            Within a month, incredible as it now seems in this era of lengthy applications, interviews, and
                    examinations, Alex and I boarded at 
                        Terre Haute
                     the Southwestern Limited of the "Big Four" or C.C.C. and 
                        St. Louis
                    , on its one-thousand-mile race from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Boston
                     after we had already made a four-hour journey on the C. and E. I. local on its daily
                    one-hundred-mile smoky stagger up from 
                        Evansville
                    .4 Unexamined and unheralded, we were probably as unlikely a brace
                    of innocents as ever set off to enroll as freshmen in 
                        Harvard
                     College.
            Even the clothes in my "wardrobe trunk" were not altogether proper for the
                    adventure. A week before our departure, I had persuaded my mother to buy for me at Strouse and
                    Brothers store on Main Street an expensive suit cut in the height of fashion favored at that time by
                    teenage males in Indiana. As I was fitted by Mr. Ed Lantz, who had masterminded my wardrobe ever
                    since I was six years old, I had no idea how ridiculous I would look in the tight jacket and
                    bell-bottom trousers among the equally ridiculous square, short jackets and wide
                    trousers—known as "
                        Oxford
                     bags"—that had already become the vogue of collegians in the East.
                    I am still embarrassed by the memory of that new suit, but not so much because of the freak it must
                    have made of me as because of my willfulness in wanting it and my 
                  
                     3 Owen M. Johnson, Stover at Yale (
                                Boston
                            , 1912).
                  
                     4 The 
                                Chicago
                             and Eastern 
                                Illinois
                             (
                                Missouri
                             Pacific Railroad) ran from 
                                Evansville
                             through 
                                Terre Haute
                             to 
                                Chicago
                            . It is now a part of the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Nashville
                             system. Elmer G. Sulzer, Ghost Railroads of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), 235. For a history of the 
                        Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago
                     , and 
                                St. Louis
                             written at about the time of Wilson's journey to 
                                Harvard
                             see Ared Maurice Murphy, "The Big Four Railroad in Indiana,"
                            XXI (June and September, 1925), 109–273. At that time the 
                                New York
                             Central Railroad owned 92 percent of the Big Four's common stock, and
                            the system served twelve states and two Canadian provinces. Ibid., 270.
                            See also Alvin F. Harlow, The Road of the Century: The Story of the 
                                    New York
                                 Central (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 373–97.
               
                     weakness in never unpacking it in 
                        Cambridge
                     when I saw what others were wearing. Later, my parents would have to make great
                    sacrifices to keep me at 
                        Harvard
                     all four years, and it might have been better for my character if I had worn the
                    outlandish suit until the bell-bottoms became frayed and shiny. Perhaps it was somewhat to my credit
                    that I lived frugally at 
                        Harvard
                     my first year until I had saved enough out of my spending money to buy another
                    "best suit" to take the place of the first one.
            Alex and I spent our first night in 
                        Boston
                     in the Touraine Hotel, sleepless. Neither of us had ever been alone in a city so big as 
                        Boston
                    . The nearest approximation to a college campus that I, at least, had ever seen was the
                    remodeled synagogue across the street from Central High that the new Methodist college (now the
                    University of 
                        Evansville
                    ) leased to house its first classes. I did not know that Harvard's campus was
                    called "the Yard," and the next morning when our taxi driver called it
                    "the Yadd," I still did not know.
            His pronunciations gave Alex and me our first hint that we were going to have a problem understanding
                    people in New 
                        England
                    . In 
                        Evansville
                     there were two principal types of speech in those days: white and black, with an
                    occasional German accent heard mainly among elderly country folk. But 
                        Cambridge
                     was a veritable Tower of Babel. Even the native Yankees did not talk alike. Maybe the
                    native Hoosiers at home did not talk alike either, but I had never noticed. On my first night in
                    Persis Smith Hall, which I did not know then was named for a woman and not a man because I had never
                    heard the name "Persis" before, I wrote a homesick letter to my parents expressing
                    doubts that I would ever be able to follow the lectures of my professors.
            They did not speak with the brogue of the taxi driver or the Irish janitor in our dormitory, of
                    course, but I was right about the difficulty I foresaw. Most of those learned men dropped r's where r's should be and put them in where
                    they shouldn't be. Their lectures were divided into "pots," which I
                    eventually concluded were "parts," and the "owah"
                    ("hour") was never long enough, they said, for full presentations of their
                    "idears." In a survey of English literature "Beowulf" created a
                    problem for me for a while. At Central High I had not been introduced to that earliest epic in our
                    literature, and so, in my 
                        Harvard
                     notes, that early hero was "Bearwolf" until I got round to him in my
                    reading and saw how the name was spelled. Even after I caught on to the general rules of Yankee
                    mispronunciations, I was often so distracted by them that I missed much of what a lecturer was
                    saying. Arthur 
                        Norman
                     Holcombe of the Department of Government made a special difficulty. His favorite word
                    was "potticulolly,"  and I became so charmed
                    by it and so absorbed in waiting for him to say it again that there were great lacunae in my notes
                    on what he told us about "the Maggner Cotter" and its influence on the
                    "lawrs" of "Americker."
            Most unintelligible of all for me was the speech of my young section man in Philosophy A. He was a
                    Greek named Raphael Demos who later became a distinguished professor of the 
                        Harvard
                     faculty, but he sounded nothing at all like the only Greek I had ever encountered until
                    then, Mr. Acos, who owned a candy store back in 
                        Evansville
                    . Mr. Demos ended by making the philosophers studied in Phil A—from Aristotle
                    to Kant and Hegel—all Greek to me.
            Meantime, my own speech baffled others. Dr. Roger I. Lee, not sure whether I had appendicitis or was
                    wasting away with homesickness, committed me to Stillman Infirmary for observation early in my first
                    year at 
                        Harvard
                    .5 Dr. Lee was a kind man and, I am sure, took a fatherly interest
                    in me. But I think he was also inspired by curiosity about my use of our common language. He had
                    probably never heard a southern Hoosier talk before. One day he came right out and asked me if I had
                    "an impediment" in my speech.
            Mrs. Lowell, the wife of the president,6 made the rounds of the infirmary twice a
                    week, and one day, at my bedside, she speculated on the name of the only other 
                        Harvard
                     student from Indiana that she had met. She said she could not be sure whether his name
                    was "Moss" (meaning, I supposed, "Moss") or
                    "Moss" (meaning, I supposed, "Morse"). Finally, I said I thought
                    there was a Hoosier in my class named "Moss" (meaning, since I was mischievously
                    making it all up, that she could take her choice). But she won that little word game in the end.
                    "My dear young man," she said archly, "how am I ever to know whether you
                    are saying ‘Moss’ or ‘Moss?’"
            The 
                        Harvard
                     accent, so-called, stood apart from all others. There are several explanations of its
                    origin, and I do not know which is correct. I am sure it had to be acquired by everyone who used it,
                    and I never tried to acquire it. But my speech must have been affected by what I heard round me
                    every day. Years later, I was told by a linguist that my speech revealed that I was born on the
                    north shore of the Ohio River but came of mixed Yankee and southern stock and
                    had studied at 
                        Harvard
                    . When 
                  
                     5 Dr. Roger I. Lee was Henry K. Oliver professor of hygiene at 
                                Harvard
                             from 1914 to 1924. While on the faculty, he organized the department of hygiene
                            for the care of students' health.
                  
                     6 A. Lawrence Lowell was president of 
                                Harvard
                             from 1909 to 1933.
               
                     I went to 
                        Washington
                     my freshman year for Christmas vacation, my sister, who was ever my most loyal friend
                    and most outspoken critic, told me I "talked funny."
            There was a new vocabulary to learn as well as the strange pronunciations. In 
                        Cambridge
                     and 
                        Boston
                     poached eggs were "dropped eggs," soft drinks were
                    "tonic," and tennis shoes were "sneakers." I had never heard of
                    "finnan haddie" or "shad roe" until I arrived in New 
                        England
                     and learned that they were both fish or akin thereto. (The first time I ordered shad
                    roe in a restaurant, I asked the waitress if it had many bones in it.) Finnan haddie, I decided, was
                    not so good as Hoosier catfish. In Durgin-Park's famous restaurant I discovered that
                    "apple pan dowdie" was a delicious dessert and "johnnycakes"
                    were nothing more than fried mush and not so tasty. At the college you paid your bills to
                    "the bursar," and when you took examinations in Memorial Hall, the teaching
                    assistant who watched you like a house detective and even insisted on accompanying you to the
                    toilet, if you had to go, was called a "proctor." We had proctors in the
                    dormitories, too, to keep us in line with the "parietal regulations." Ours in my
                    entry of Persis Smith was a captain in the 
                        United States
                     Army who taught an ROTC course in "Hippology." We labeled him
                    "Professor of Horseplay." Incidentally, ROTC was not called
                    "Rotsy" in those days before the universal invention of acronyms.
            Possibly 
                        Harvard
                     is no longer a snob school; the twenty to eighty ratio of public to private school boys
                    of my day has been reversed, I am told, and the House Plan, inaugurated some time after my
                    graduation, may have democratized the college; I don't know.7 Possibly,
                    in our day, much of what Alex and I regarded as snobbery was simply New 
                        England
                     reserve. Both of us had the experience of sitting beside the same man in our
                    alphabetically organized classes for four years and never being noticed by him when we passed in the
                    Yard. Maybe that was our fault more than the other students'; Alex and I were both shy and
                    never fully at ease, I think, in that alien land. Maybe the other students were wondering why we did
                    not speak to them. But there was a certain stiffness, a formality in undergraduate life at 
                        Harvard
                    , 
                  
                     7 During Wilson's years at 
                                Harvard
                             freshmen had their own halls, or dormitories, and seniors generally lived in
                            the Yard. Sophomores and juniors, however, roomed anywhere they could, and few had decent
                            dining places after the freshman year. The House Plan instituted in the early 1930s assigned
                            students to the same "house," with resident tutors and a master, for all
                            three of their upperclass years; the freshman halls were later added to the plan. In
                            Wilson's time a tutorial system did already exist for all students above the
                            freshman class.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM E. WILSON AS A SOPHOMORE AT
                                HARVARD, 1924, IN DOORWAY OF ROOMING HOUSE AT 25 TROWBRIDGE STREET, CAMBRIDGE
                  
                  Courtesy Alexander L. Leich.
                that aggravated our own diffidence. Today, the 
                        Harvard
                     classmate who sends me appeals for money democratically crosses out the impersonal
                    "Dear Classmate" heading his letters and substitutes "Dear
                    William" in handwriting (probably a secretary's); but the trouble with this
                    attempt to break the ice of sixty years ago, when the classmate and I were not properly introduced
                    and, hence, not on speaking terms, is that almost no one but my mother ever called me
                    "William" and my classmate's chummy letters only embarrass me. In fact,
                    they have an adverse effect on my generosity.
            
            
               WILLIAM E. WILSON, IN FOREGROUND, AS A
                            FRESHMAN AT HARVARD, EXERCISING ON
                        THE COLLEGE ATHLETIC FIELD, 1923
               Courtesy Alexander L. Leich.
            
            The worst example of 
                        Harvard
                     snobbery I encountered in my four years in Cambridge came early, when I entered the
                    competition for the freshman tennis team. I was never an athlete. When I went to college, although I
                    was five feet ten inches tall, I weighed only 115 pounds, not yet fully recovered, I suppose, from
                    the series of illnesses that the low-lying, badly drained, and miasmic 
                        Evansville
                     of the first two decades of the twentieth century exposed me to in the first twelve
                    years of my life. The illnesses ranged from malaria to diphtheria and typhoid fever, and when I was
                    nine or ten, I even wore a thick plaster "corset" all one hot summer as a result
                    of what was probably undiagnosed polio. By 1923, however, I was a reasonably good tennis player and
                    had taken part, with modest success, in 
                        Evansville
                    's city tournaments.
            For my first scheduled match in the freshman competition at 
                        Harvard
                     I donned a pair of comfortable, old, gray summer pants and a blue shirt, rolled up its
                    sleeves, and with three new tennis balls stuffed into my pockets set off for the courts with my
                    trusty old racket that I was soon to learn I had trusted too long. My opponent arrived at the courts
                    attired in beautiful white-flannel trousers and a white tennis shirt and a prep-school blazer. He
                    seemed to me better dressed for a garden party than  for tennis.
                    He carried not three tennis balls but a dozen, in a net bag, and not one racket but two, both brand
                    new.
            I took the first set from him easily; too easily, I thought, because he seemed to me indifferent, not
                    sufficiently "hyped up" to play his best. Looking back now, I am sure that he
                    could not believe that an opponent as improperly dressed as I for the game could know how to play
                    it. In the second set his game improved a little, but I was still winning easily when my old racket
                    broke. The whole thing collapsed at once—like the Deacon's One-Hoss Shay.8 Its long New 
                        England
                     winter at the bottom of my trunk had been too much for it, I guess. As soon as my
                    competitor saw what had happened, he went to the score chart, crossed off my name, and wrote after
                    his own, "Winner by Default." Tucking his two new rackets under his arm then and
                    picking up his bag of balls, he sauntered off the court without so much as a "Sorry, old
                    chap."
            I am beginning to sound as if I did not like 
                        Harvard
                    , but I did like it. I never came to love the place, as a certain type of Old Grad
                    professes to love his alma mater. (How can one "love" a
                    multimillion-dollar corporation?) I gave my sister a 
                        Harvard
                     pennant for Christmas my freshman year, but I never bought one for myself; I disliked
                    as ostentatious the 
                        Harvard
                     drinking glasses my sons gave me once when they were children, and I was glad when my
                    inebriate friends finally broke them all; my 
                        Harvard
                     chair is a handsome piece of furniture, but I keep it in my study because it is
                    uncomfortable and discourages visitors; I have never gone back to a 
                        Harvard
                     reunion, although my absences have been as much the result of circumstances as of
                    choice; I don't know the words of "Fair 
                        Harvard
                    " beyond the first two lines and could not tell you who won the 
                        Harvard
                    -Yale game last year; I don't address strangers by their first names because
                    they happen to be classmates; and I give more money annually to colleges other than the institution
                    on the Charles because it seems to me they need it more. On the other hand, I have sent one of my
                    three sons through 
                        Harvard
                     and would have sent the other two there if they had wanted to go. One of the other two
                    did apply, but when he was accepted, he chose Amherst instead. When I happened to remark to John
                    Mason Brown at the time that Amherst was, for my son, a better choice, 
                        Brown
                     laughed and said, "Spoken like a true 
                        Harvard
                     man!" and promptly appointed me to the 
                        Harvard
                     Overseers Committee to visit the 
                  
                     8 Oliver Wendell Holmes, "The Deacon's Masterpiece,
                            or the Wonderful One-Hoss-Shay: A Logical Story," The One Hoss Shay
                                … (
                                    Boston
                                , 1892), 12–29.
               
                     English Department, of which he was chairman. I would have been
                    happy to see all my sons at 
                        Harvard
                     because I remember many incidents from my own years in 
                        Cambridge
                     that have enriched my whole life; but I believe the two who did not go there have been
                    just as well educated and probably happier at Amherst and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            In the 1920s 
                        Harvard
                     had many charms that it has since lost, as I discovered in 1985 on a visit to see a
                    step-granddaughter graduate from the 
                        Harvard
                     Law School. In fact, I am not sure that, if my sons were entering college today, I
                    should want them to be thrown at seventeen into the maelstrom the megalopolis of Boston has become.
                    Sixty years ago the town of 
                        Cambridge
                     and the university were so small that a freshman came quickly to be a part of them if
                    only because he soon recognized as no more than fellow-Cantabrigians the great, the near-great, and
                    the oddities of that academic world in the streets and in the Yard.
            Haughty, ferocious, white-bearded, Ph.D.-less ("Who could examine me?" he was said
                    to have replied when asked why he lacked the advanced degree.), George Lyman Kittredge was one of
                    the "greats" then, crossing 
                        Harvard
                     Square with cane upraised to halt traffic. Little, nonstop-lecturer John Livingston
                    Lowes was another, scurrying about like an overwrought graduate student, who, it was said, once had
                    his hat knocked off in Widener Library by Kittredge's cane. Still another, also without a
                    Ph.D., was Charles Townsend Copeland ("Copey"), taking his daily two-mile
                    constitutional in an overcoat several sizes too large for him and wearing a derby hat like a second
                    melon balanced atop the flat, oblong melon of his head.
            Roger Bigelow Merriman—"Frisky" Merriman—was among them, the
                    best-dressed man on the faculty until he took off his jacket and occasionally his shirt on hot
                    spring days as he pranced up and down the platform of New Lecture Hall explaining the rise of the
                    Spanish Empire. Kirsopp Lake was there, too, in full panoply of buck teeth and
                    flying coattails on his way to Sever Hall to weep over his reading of the Book of Job in his course
                    on the Bible; and gentle, learned, Ph.D.-less (Who could indeed examine him?)
                    Bliss Perry; and bustling Ralph Barton Perry, the philosopher. For a while we saw old Charles
                    William Eliot in the Yard, his rugged, birth-marked face sublime, and there too his elegant
                    successor, A. Lawrence 
                        Lowell
                    , already seventy, taking the steps of University Hall three at a time to prove to
                    himself and to the whole world that he was still vigorous enough to direct the fate of 
                        Harvard
                     University. As elegantly dressed as the president but the youngest of all, Kenneth
                    Murdock loped  with long legs across the square, lantern-jawed
                    but genial, perhaps already cherishing his never-fulfilled dream of one day following in 
                        Lowell
                    's lithely planted footsteps into the president's office.
            We, the students, knew all these men in those days and gossiped about their foibles and what we
                    thought were their innermost secrets. At the same time we identified the minor players in the daily
                    drama of 
                        Cambridge
                    . Among them were the perennial students, most ubiquitous being a man in his sixties
                    with flamboyant orange-pink whiskers whom everyone called "The Professor of
                    Heraldry." Aristocratic old ladies in black silk were ubiquitous, too, fluttering along
                    Garden Street, always, it seemed, with books in their hands, prepared to ask searching questions of
                    the "greats" if they could detain them and even of the ghosts of Mr. Lowell (James
                    Russell) or Mr. Longfellow (Henry Wadsworth) or Mr. Emerson (Ralph Waldo) if any of these should
                    miraculously appear at the next corner. Max Keezer, the secondhand clothes man, was everywhere at
                    once on foot with a bundle of clothes slung over his arm to sell, much of his merchandise worn only
                    once or twice by student residents of the area known as "the Gold Coast" who
                    needed cash before their papas could send it to them. Occasionally one saw one of these Golden Boys
                    in person, drifting sleepily up from that gilded region of private dormitories to attend a tutorial
                    at "The Widow's" on the Square, where a "Gentleman's
                    C" was all but guaranteed for a fee.9
            
            All students, rich and poor, wore one stamp or another of 
                        Harvard
                     in those days, in dress or in manner, too much like a uniform perhaps; but today
                    students wear another uniform, and there are so many hangers-on in 
                        Cambridge
                     that it is impossible to distinguish their threadbare tatters from the threadbare
                    tatters affected by the sons and daughters of millionaires. The old stamp of the 1920s, like the new
                    one of today, was a protection from reality, and there is nothing wrong with that, I suppose. 
                        Harvard
                     students, like all others, become acquainted with reality soon enough.
            Even the local tradesmen and laborers and politicians were affected by the presence of the university
                    in their midst when I was a student in 
                        Cambridge
                    . Witness the naming of the "City of 
                        Cambridge
                     Offal Department." (In 
                        Evansville
                    , even officially, we 
                  
                     9 "The Widow's" was the students'
                            name for the privately owned and operated tutorial school on 
                                Harvard
                             Square; it was an establishment designed for force-feeding knowledge into the
                            minds of the idle rich.
               
                    
                    
                  TRAFFIC ON MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE,
                            NEAR HARVARD SQUARE, CAMBRIDGE, 1923. HARVARD YARD AND CLASSROOM BUILDINGS IN BACKGROUND
                  
                  Courtesy Alexander L. Leich
                called garbage "garbage.") Hear the clerk in Leavitt and Pierce employ
                    the correct uses of "shall" and "will" as if he had just come
                    from Copey's class. See Mayor Curley, implacable enemy of the
                    "godlessness" of 
                        Harvard
                    , appear at the dedication of the new subway pillbox in 
                        Harvard
                     Square wearing a top hat with the savoir faire of a 
                        Harvard
                     Overseer.10
            
            When I think of the 
                        Cambridge
                     of my youth, accustomed as I was to the mild winters and somnolent, steaming summers of
                    southern Indiana, I remember, first of all, the bitter cold of New 
                        England
                     and how the boardwalks laid down in the Yard against the ice and snow crackled under
                    the flopping, unbuckled galoshes we all wore as we went to learn—many of us
                    gladly—in such courses as English 41, which Bliss Perry gladly taught; to sit in
                    conferences with a university-appointed graduate-student tutor 
                  
                     10 Leavitt and Pierce was a tobacco store on 
                                Harvard
                             Square. Democrat James M. Curley was mayor of 
                                Boston
                             on and off for sixteen years (1914–1917, 1922–1925,
                            1930–1933, 1946–1949) and served four terms in the 
                                United States
                             Congress, one term as governor of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , and two terms in jail. This controversial Irishman from a poor background is
                            the subject of Edwin O'Connor's The Last Hurrah (
                                Boston
                            , 1956).
               
                    
                    
                  HARVARD YARD IN THE WINTER OF
                            1923–1924. SENIOR DORMITORIES IN THE BACKGROUND
                  
                  Courtesy Alexander L. Leich.
                like Whitney A. Wells; and to keep appointments with Charles Townsend Copeland in his
                    rooms in Hollis 15, where Ralph Waldo Emerson once lived.
            Bliss Perry, who taught more gladly than any teacher I have ever known, made the reading of
                    literature seem like a high moral pursuit, yet always without pedantry and didacticism. He spoke
                    above the lectern in Sever 11 deliberately, in a melodic, resonant voice, his homely face benign and
                    wise, his mottled hands as eloquent as his words. Whitney Wells, a Californian, an outlander like
                    me, was disdainful of ignorance and taught his "tutees" to abhor it as he himself
                    abhorred it and, at the same time, to carry as lightly as they could whatever learning they
                    acquired. Copeland with a word could plunge a young man into black despair of ever becoming a writer
                    or lift him to heights of renewed ambition.
            To these three men, Perry, Wells, and Copeland, I owe the best of what 
                        Harvard
                     College means to me. "Copey," however, I remember most vividly, if
                    only because my principal obsession then, as it always has been, was writing.
            I got off to a bad start with Copey. I went up to Hollis 15 with my friend Edd Parks—later
                    a poet, critic, and distinguished professor of English at the University of 
                        Georgia
                    —for our first interview  after our names
                    had been posted in Wadsworth House for the final choice of members of English 12. Both of us were
                    nervous, but Parks's jitters produced a jaunty manner, whereas mine made me timid. As Parks
                    preceded me into Copey's study, the great man sat forward on his horsehair sofa and stared
                    at us. Before we could tell him our names, he said, "The first young man seems affable
                    enough; but you, the second, why are you so belligerent?"
            I was not belligerent; I was scared—scared stiff and, at the same time, happier than I had
                    been at any time since I left my Indiana home for 
                        Harvard
                     College. Being admitted in my senior year to Copey's course in writing meant
                    the realization of a dream I had cherished ever since I was a freshman. But of course I could not
                    tell Copey this. Indifference was the vogue then at 
                        Harvard
                    , and to express jubilation over anything was infra dig. I remained
                    silent and let Parks do the talking.
            Perhaps it was because of this awkward beginning that I always felt somewhat ill at ease in
                    Copey's presence and never became one of his disciples. But I think not. Better men than I
                    rebelled against his personality when they were his students, including T. S. Eliot and John Dos
                    Passos. Nevertheless, in the course of that year, Copey managed to teach me a great deal in spite of
                    my reaction to him. And in spite of his reaction to me, too, I think. He was a vain man who loved
                    flattery and favored toadies, and I never had much expertise in that line. However, students who
                    were lazy or without talent, toadies or no, he ignored as much as possible and crowned their
                    ignominy at the end of the course with what he called "a contemptuous Gentlemen's
                    C"; at the same time, students who were not in his "crowd" and never
                    became members of the Charles Townsend Copeland Alumni Association were treated to full justice in
                    his teaching. Parks and I, for example, not among his favorites, received two of the three or four
                    A's he gave that year.
            Copey's class of twelve selected seniors met twice a week in Emerson 5, but those meetings
                    were seldom more than a Copey performance, with finicky adjusting of window shades and reading lamp,
                    arranging of papers and books and drinking glass on his desk on a platform high above the seats in
                    the room, clearings of the throat, petulant complaints of drafts, and whimsical roll calls
                    "to make sure that there are no newspapermen in the room," as if the meetings of
                    the class were public events. All this fussing and fuming was a preliminary to twenty minutes or so
                    of the famous "Copeland Reading," more often of the Bible or Kipling than of our
                    own efforts.
            The real work of the course was accomplished when Copey's students went singly to his rooms
                    in Hollis after dinner for hour-long  conferences about their
                    writing. They would sit at his desk and read their work to him under the soft light of a
                    green-shaded gas lamp, while Copey himself reclined on a sofa in the shadows, eyes closed, sound
                    asleep for all we knew—unless he was so moved to agony over our literary ineptitudes that
                    he interrupted us with a groan and a short lecture for our margins on "the debilitating
                    passive" or "elephantine jocosity." When our reading was ended, he opened
                    his eyes and dictated long, detailed criticisms of what we had just read, which assured us that he
                    had heard every word.
            His emphasis was on style: clarity and purpose in writing. I am not sure that he knew much about the
                    craft of fiction, although he recognized a good story when one was read to him—and
                    especially when he had one to tell himself. My work seemed to puzzle him at times, like Dr.
                    Lee's mystification by my Hoosier speech when I was a freshman. I think Copey had never
                    encountered before a midwestern background like mine, and following his advice to write about what I
                    knew, I baffled him with the setting and characters of 
                        Evansville
                     that I put into my stories. He had himself never ventured far out of New 
                        England
                     and only went to 
                        New York City
                     for his birthday and the annual meetings of the Copeland Alumni Association in the 
                        Harvard
                     Club. J. C. Furnas was in that class, and Joe came from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; but Joe's interest was primarily in writing editorials and essays in which
                    his personal background played little part.11 "Wilson," Copey
                    asked me on one occasion, "how do you know so much about such people?" But it was
                    more an expression of wonder at the oddities of my fellow Evansvilleans than a questioning of my
                    verisimilitude.
            Only once was I courageous enough to submit a poem in English 12. It was a love poem addressed to a
                    girl who was breaking my heart back home in Indiana, and it contained more truth than poetry. I was
                    too shy to read it to him and pretended that I had forgotten to bring my glasses. Copey obligingly
                    traded places with me and read the poem aloud at the desk while I perched nervously on his sofa.
                    When he finished, my jaw must have been slack with amazement at my own genius; for Copey smiled and
                    said, gently, "You have apparently forgotten that the poem was read by Charles Townsend
                    Copeland. The 
                        Boston
                     Symphony Orchestra can make ‘Yankee Doodle’ sound like great
                    music."
            
               
                  11 Joseph Chamberlain Furnas is the author of popular sociological studies
                        of American life in the twentieth century, including Great Times (
                            New York
                        , 1974) and Stormy Weather (
                            New York
                        , 1977), and of biographies of Fanny Kemble and Robert Louis Stevenson.
            
            
            
               WILLIAM E. WILSON AS A SOPHOMORE AT HARVARD, 1924, IN DOORWAY OF ROOMING
                            HOUSE AT 25 TROWBRIDGE STREET, CAMBRIDGE
               
               Courtesy Alexander L. Leich
            
            On another occasion I came to our evening session in a dinner jacket because I was going afterward to
                    a dance and would not have time to change. That night, instead of pretending to doze, Copey peered
                    at me steadily through the shadows as I read; and when I finished, he ignored my literary
                    contribution and said, "Are you in mourning, Wilson?" Startled, I told him that I
                    was not. "But they are black," he said. "I can see from here that they
                    are black." I asked him what was black, and he said, "Your shirt studs. You should
                    never wear black studs unless you are in mourning."
            Before I left, he insisted on lending me a set of his own studs and cufflinks, so that I would be
                    properly dressed. As he escorted me to the door, he sniffed at me and said,
                    "Yardley's Lavender. That, at least, is correct. It is the only scent a gentleman
                    ever wears."
            
            It was not until I was back in my own room in Matthews that I realized he had given me the ultimate
                    among his many ways of adversely criticizing a manuscript; he had not mentioned it.
            Copey, vain as he was, never became my model for sartorial correctness, but I never mistrusted him in
                    matters of correctness in writing. His spirit still chides me when I commit a "debilitating
                    passive" or indulge in an "elephantine jocosity."
            In my four years at 
                        Harvard
                    , especially in my first two years before my father was defeated in his third race for
                    Congress, there was a succession of girls to take occasionally to tea dances and evening dances and
                    to the theatre, girls from Wellesley, from Smith and Simmons and Wheaton. But there were not so many
                    as there might have been if I had gone to Indiana University or DePauw (which many members of my
                    mother's family attended) because at 
                        Harvard
                     girls cost too much money for my limited budget even in the beginning. Most of them had
                    to be transported on trains and sometimes provided with chaperoned overnight accommodations. Dating
                    was formal and expensive in those years. Coffee and coke dates were unheard of. And the male always
                    picked up the tab. After my sophomore year, until I finally met, a month short of my graduation,
                    Ellen Cameron, the Radcliffe girl I would eventually marry,12 my life was almost
                    as monastic as the undergraduate life described in the best 
                        Harvard
                     novel of my era, Not to Eat, Not for Love, by George Weller of the
                    class after mine. ("A good novel," a faculty colleague of mine at 
                        Brown
                     University said to me when it was published in 1933, "but where are the
                    girls?" The answer was that there weren't any girls handy for many of us at 
                        Harvard
                     in the 1920s—not in the Yard, at least.)
            With Alex and new friends, most of them from the Middle West and the South, there were dinners, when
                    we could afford them, at Durgin-Park's and Jacob Wirth's and other places in 
                        Boston
                    , but never at Locke-Ober's, which was beyond our means, and there were
                    excursions to Marblehead and 
                        Salem
                     and Concord and 
                        Lexington
                    . From the second balcony of the 
                        Boston
                     Opera House, at a distance of a quarter of a mile, I fell in love with 
                  
                     12 Ellen Janet Cameron was born in 1902 and died in 1976. As Ellen
                            Wilson, she wrote many books for young people, including Three Boys and a
                                Lighthouse (
                                New York
                            , 1951), with Nan Hayden Agle; Ernie Pyle: Boy from Back Home (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1955); and They Named Me Gertrude Stein (
                                New York
                            , 1973). In 1977 Wilson married Hana Benes, who was an editor of Victory
                            magazine during World War II and, later, foreign editor of Svobodne Slovo,
                            Prague, 
                                Czechoslovakia
                            , until 1948.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM E. WILSON'S ROOMING
                                HOUSE ON HARVARD STREET, CAMBRIDGE, DURING HIS JUNIOR YEAR AT
                                HARVARD, 1925–1926
                  Courtesy Alexander L. Leich.
                Mary Garden and watched, with less passion, the gyrations of Anna Pavlova, whom I still
                    think of as a tiny doll only an inch high because I had no opera glasses. I was also captivated by
                    the magic make-believe of Helen Hayes and Katharine Cornell in 
                        Boston
                    's theatres, and in Symphony Hall I listened spellbound to Kreisler, Elman,
                    Hofmann, Rachmaninoff, and the 
                        Boston
                     Symphony Orchestra. To balance this diet of high seriousness I did my share of gaping
                    at the strippers, like Ann Corio, and laughing at the comics, like Sliding Billy Watson, in the
                    Gayety Theatre on Scollay Square, and once I went behind stage and met Joe Cook, the popular,
                    stand-up comedian of those days, because he had a routine about his "boyhood in 
                        Evansville
                    ." (It must have been a precocious boyhood, because all he could remember of 
                        Evansville
                     in our backstage conversation was Gold-blume Beer.)
            My second year in 
                        Cambridge
                    , I moved into a rooming house with Alex at 25 Trowbridge Street and the next year,
                    alone, into  a mansard room on 
                        Harvard
                     Street, observance of parietal regulations in the one proctored by a Cockney landlady
                    named Mansell and in the other by an Irish landlady named Tobey, both of whom scolded me when I
                    misbehaved and cosseted me with chocolate cake and apple pie between times. I paid Mrs. Mansell five
                    dollars a week and Mrs. Tobey four dollars. 
                        Harvard
                     tuition was raised to four hundred dollars and then to six hundred dollars in those
                    years, but by that time I had scholarships that took care of the increases and a little more. In my
                    junior year I entered the 
                        Harvard
                    
                    Crimson's competition for would-be editorial writers and lost out in the
                    final selection to Joe Furnas but had the reward of making his acquaintance and enjoying his
                    friendship the rest of my life and of knowing the senior editor, Edward C. Aswell, who became the
                    editor of two of my novels, Abe Lincoln of Pigeon Creek and The
                        Strangers, a quarter of a century later.13 In our senior year Alex and
                    I moved into the Yard, according to the custom of that time, Alex into Stoughton Hall and I, with
                    Haydn Huntley, into Matthews 5, which was one of the cheapest rooms available in the Yard that
                        year.14
            
            Now, looking back again at that August day in 
                        Evansville
                     long ago, in 1923, I am grateful to Mr. Chewning for making up my mind for me and to my
                    father for deciding that Harvard on $5-a-day was worth it. As for the longjohns that my
                    mother packed in my trunk, I never wore them until nineteen years later when I served in the navy
                    during World War II. My dear sister remained a loyal 
                        Harvard
                     fan until she died seven years ago. I inherited her 
                        Harvard
                     pennant, and someday I hope I can bring myself to give it to my 
                        Harvard
                     son—if I can ever find where I have stored it in Hana's and my
                    present condominium apartment in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  13 Edward C. Aswell was Thomas Wolfe's final editor at Harper and
                        Row, Publishers. Aswell ended his career as editor of McGraw-Hill Book Company, where Wilson
                        published Abe Lincoln of Pigeon Creek in 1949 and The
                        Strangers in 1952.
               
                  14 Haydn Huntley lives now in 
                            California
                        , retired after many years as professor of fine arts at the University of 
                            Chicago
                         and Northwestern University.
            
         
         
         
            Upland Southerners: The County Origins of Southern Migrants to Indiana by 1850
            Gregory S. Rose∗
            
            Early Indiana was strikingly different from other states in the Old Northwest because of its
                    considerable population of southern natives and former residents of the South. Southerners'
                    impact upon Indiana exceeded that of any other group because migrants from the South were the first
                    to arrive in significant numbers and the first to contribute to the state's growth;
                    further, their Hoosier-born children later helped settle the state's newly emerging central
                    and northern frontiers. As the "first effective settlers," southerners heavily
                    influenced Indiana's cultural development. Varying degrees of
                    "southern-ness" colored the state's social, economic, and political
                    systems, vernacular architecture, dialects, and religions, while many of these elements, including
                    the term "Hoosier," can be directly linked to southern antecedents.1 Indeed, the northern boundary of the southern cultural 
                  
                     ∗ Gregory S. Rose is assistant professor of geography, The 
                                Ohio
                             State University at 
                        Marion, Marion, Ohio
                     . The basic research for this article was partially supported by
                            an Indiana Historical Society Graduate Fellowship, 1980–1981. The assistance of
                            personnel at the office of the Society of Indiana Pioneers and at the Archives Division,
                            Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , is gratefully acknowledged.
                  
                     1 Wilbur Zelinsky, The Cultural Geography of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1973), 13–14. Examples of
                            Indiana's "southern-ness" appear in John D. Barnhart,
                            "Southern Contributions to the Social Order of the Old Northwest," 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Review, XVII (July, 1940), 237–48; Barnhart,
                            "The Southern Element in the Leadership of the Old Northwest," Journal of Southern History, I (May, 1935), 186–97; Barnhart,
                            "The Southern Influence in the Formation of Indiana," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXXIII (September, 1937), 261–76; Robert W.
                            Bastian, "Indiana Folk Architecture: A Lower Midwestern Index," Pioneer America, IX (December, 1977), 115–36; James M.
                            Bergquist, "Tracing the Origins of a Midwestern Culture: The Case of Central
                            Indiana," Indiana
                  
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. LXXXII (September. 1986). © 1986. Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
               
                     region in the eastern 
                        United States
                     is typically drawn through central Indiana.2
            
            An understanding of the southern presence in the Hoosier state is therefore crucial to any
                    consideration of Indiana's frontier culture and course of development. Because of the
                    South's physical and social diversity, however, the ingredients that comprise southern-ness
                    are difficult to determine. The exact nature of the southern traits affecting Indiana, for example,
                    could be quite distinct from those influencing 
                        Louisiana
                     if the settlers in one state came from the region identified as the upland South and
                    those in the other state hailed from areas of the lowland South. Consequently, before the southern
                    influence on Indiana can be accurately measured and southern cultural and social traditions
                    correctly assigned to their sources, the areas of the South that supplied most Hoosier settlers must
                    be ascertained. Although previous research has identified the states of birth for southern migrants
                    to Indiana, their county origins, indicating whether the southerners were lowlanders or uplanders,
                    have not heretofore been determined.
            In order to redress this deficiency, four sets of records have been examined to discover the origins
                    of southerners who settled in Indiana by 1850. Since these records deal with segments of the
                    population which were surveyed at different times and which, in some cases, were asked different
                    questions, they are not exactly interchangeable. The first record, the federal census, includes the
                    state or country of birth for every inhabitant in Indiana in 1850. The second, a selection of data
                    by Joseph E. Layton, lists the state or country of previous residence for individuals 
                  
                     Magazine of History, LXXVII (March, 1981), 1–32; R. Carlyle
                            Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1951), I, 315–94; Henry Clyde Hubbart,
                            "‘Pro-Southern’ Influences in the Free West,
                            1840–1865," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XX (June, 1933), 45–62; Robert LaFollette,
                            "Interstate Migration and Indiana Culture," ibid., XVI
                            (December, 1929), 347–58; Albert H. Marckwardt, "Folk Speech in Indiana
                            and Adjacent States," Indiana History Bulletin, XVII (February,
                            1940), 120–40; Raven I. McDavid, Jr., "Word Magic, or ‘Would
                            You Want Your Daughter to Marry a Hoosier?’" Indiana
                                English Journal, II (Fall, 1967), 1–7; Meredith Nicholson, The Hoosiers (
                                New York
                            , 1915), 1–62; Richard Lyle Power, Planting Corn Belt
                                Culture: The Impress of the Upland Southerner and Yankee in the Old Northwest (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1953), 34–39, 81–86, 92–174; Benjamin F.
                            Wright, Jr., "Political Institutions and the Frontier," in Dixon Ryan Fox,
                            ed., Sources of Culture in the Middle West: Backgrounds Versus Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 15–38.
                  
                     2 See maps of 
                                United States
                             cultural regions in Henry Glassie, Pattern in the Material Folk
                                Culture of the Eastern 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1968), 39; Frederick Jackson Turner, The 
                                    United States
                                , 1830–1850: The Nation and Its Sections (1935; reprint,
                            Gloucester, Mass., 1958), 607; Zelinsky, Cultural Geography of the 
                                    United States
                                , 118–19.
               
                     whose biographies were included in county histories, atlases,
                    and directories or who were listed in land office records and who lived in the state at any time
                    between 1816 and 1850. The third, "Registers of Receipts" collected by the General
                    Land Office, provides the counties of previous residence for southerners who purchased government
                    land between the opening of the various land offices in Indiana and 1850. The fourth, the records of
                    the Society of Indiana Pioneers, contains the counties of birth and previous residence for
                    southerners who had arrived in the state by 1851 and whose descendants have joined that genealogical
                    association. Persons in each of the last three records were not necessarily residents of Indiana
                    when the census canvassers surveyed the state in 1850: some had probably moved elsewhere while
                    others were deceased. Although the four records do not contain the same individuals, the conclusions
                    that can be drawn from them generally agree, and this conformity supports the representativeness of
                    each record.
            The leading states supplying Indiana's southern population in 1850 are most accurately
                    determined from birthplace data collected in the federal census because theoretically every
                    inhabitant was surveyed. Southerners accounted for 44.0 percent of all Hoosiers native to the 
                        United States
                     but born outside of Indiana, a far greater proportion of the population than the 28.3
                    percent southern average for the entire Old Northwest and nearly 10 percent higher than in any other
                    state of the region. While this figure indicates that the majority of Indiana's 
                        United States
                    -born settlers were northern natives, most of the northerners hailed from 
                        Ohio
                    —a state that also received many southern pioneers—and they
                    generally came after the southerners had arrived. Natives of four southern states comprised 39.2
                    percent of Indiana's non-foreign-born, non-native-Hoosier population in 1850: 
                        Kentucky
                     (17.3 percent of the migrants), 
                        Virginia
                     (10.6), 
                        North Carolina
                     (8.1), and 
                        Tennessee
                     (3.2). The counties in which the natives of these four southern states exceeded the
                    state mean are mapped in Figures 1-A and 1-B. (For example, 
                        Adams County
                     had 25 
                        Kentucky
                     natives in its non-native-Hoosier population of 3,255, or 0.8 percent of the total; 
                        Orange County
                     had 1,120 Kentuckians, accounting for 36.6 percent of its similarly defined population
                    of 3,061. Since the statewide average for Kentuckians was 17.3 percent, on Figure 1-A 
                        Orange County
                     is designated as above the mean while 
                        Adams County
                     was below it and remains unmarked.) Southerners tended to settle south of the National
                    Road, which bisected Indiana from east to west through 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Natives from each state had slightly different patterns of concentration, probably
                    reflecting the influences of time of migration, 
                    
                  FIGURES 1-A and 1-B. INDIANA COUNTIES WHERE NATIVES of SELECTED SOUTHERN STATES EXCEEDED the INDIANA MEAN, ACCORDING to the 1850 CENSUS
                  
               
                     land availability in Indiana, transportation routes, location
                    of family or neighbors in Indiana, and individual knowledge.3
            
            Data supplied by a second source of information, the study by Layton, support the conclusions
                    regarding Indiana's southern-ness as drawn from the census records. In 1916 Layton
                    identified the states and countries that provided Indiana's settlers between 1816 and 1850
                    by consulting two groups of dormant sources, General Land Office records and the county histories,
                    atlases, and city and county directories.4 The land office reports recorded the previous residences
                    of individuals who purchased land from the government while the biographies of pioneers contained in
                    the histories, atlases, and directories typically provided the same information plus location of
                    birth. These sources are not as comprehensive as the census. Wealthy individuals, social elites, or
                    subscribers were more likely to be profiled in the county histories, atlases, and directories than
                    were yeoman farmers or town laborers; adult males were the ones typically filing for government
                    land, leaving the previous residences of other family members and all subsequent purchasers
                        unrecorded.5 Rather than using birthplace as in the census, Layton collected
                    only the migrant's place of former residence because he theorized that the areas from which
                    Hoosier settlers moved had the greatest influence upon their "social and political
                    tendencies … for in hundreds of cases they were taken … [from their
                    birthplace] to grow up and form their habits under a wholly different environment."6 Finally, while all of Layton's sources indicate settlers'
                    origins by counties and sometimes even by towns, Layton himself limited his study to entire states
                    or countries of previous residence.
            According to Layton's data, southern states provided 40.6 percent of the non-foreign-born
                    Hoosier pioneers who had previous 
                  
                     3 For a more detailed presentation and analysis of the statistics and
                            statistical methods used in this article see Gregory S. Rose, "Hoosier Origins: The
                            Nativity of Indiana's 
                                United States
                            -Born Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXI (September, 1985), 201–32; see also Elfrieda Lang,
                            "An Analysis of Northern Indiana's Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIX (March, 1953), 17–60. For 
                                Ohio
                             see Hubert G.H. Wilhelm, The Origin and Distribution of Settlement
                                Groups: 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1850 (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1982), 24, 25, 30–31.
                  
                     4 Joseph E. Layton, "Sources of Population in Indiana,
                            1816–1850," Bulletin of the Indiana State Library, XI
                            (September, 1916), 7.
                  
                     5 Gregory S. Rose, "Information Sources for Nineteenth
                            Century Midwestern Migration," The Professional Geographer,
                            XXXVII (February, 1985), 67–70.
                  
                     6 Quotation from Layton, "Sources of Population in
                            Indiana," 7–8; see also Dorothy O. Johansen, "A Working
                            Hypothesis for the Study of Migrations," Pacific Historical
                            Review, XXXVI (February, 1967), 3–4.
               
                     residences within the 
                        United States
                    . Settlers from the four leading southern states totaled 38.6 percent of the population: 
                        Kentucky
                     sent 22.6 percent of the migrants, 
                        Virginia
                     7.6, 
                        North Carolina
                     6.0, and 
                        Tennessee
                     2.4. Maps of Layton's data indicating those Indiana counties where southerners
                    exceeded the mean value for their respective states (Figures 2-A and 2-B) are very similar to those
                    drawn from the 1850 census.7 Comparisons between census nativity records and
                    Layton's figures place 
                  Kentucky, Virginia, North
                        Carolina
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                     in the same relative order according to the percentage of settlers each supplied, but
                    the exact values changed. A larger percentage of migrants had previous residences in 
                        Kentucky
                     than were born there, while 
                  Virginia, North Carolina
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                     had smaller values for previous residences than for birthplaces.
            The census reports and Layton's sources are not perfectly analogous because they do not deal
                    with the same population surveyed at the same time: the census provides a snapshot of all Hoosiers
                    in 1850 while Layton's materials list the previous residences of a number of constituencies
                    who lived in Indiana between 1816 and 1850. The statistical differences between birthplaces and
                    previous residences of migrants suggest that some pioneers, especially those born in states like 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     which were more distant from the Hoosier state, may have gradually moved westward using 
                        Kentucky
                     as the last stop before migrating to Indiana.8
            
            Records such as the manuscript census and Layton's materials confirm researchers'
                    general agreement that southerners formed a major portion of Indiana's early population.
                    Most investigators also agree that these migrants from the South were uplanders.9 Historian R. Carlyle Buley, for example, wrote that although southerners in Indiana
                    "may have developed some local characteristics, most of them were essentially no different
                    from the upland South folk who filled 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    …."10 Statistical evidence to support the
                    assumption that these Hoosier pioneers were from the upland South, however, is 
                  
                     7 The blank county in southwestern Indiana marked with an
                            "M" is Martin, for which the data were too few to be significant according
                            to Layton.
                  
                     8 John D. Barnhart, "The Migration of Kentuckians Across the
                                Ohio River," Filson Club History
                            Quarterly, XXV (January, 1951), 24–32.
                  
                     9 John D. Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the
                            Old Northwest," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XXII (June, 1935), 49–62; Elfrieda Lang, "Southern
                            Migration to Northern Indiana before 1850," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, L (December, 1954), 349–56; Layton, "Sources of
                            Population in Indiana."
                  
                     10 Buley, Old Northwest, I, 27.
               
                    
                    
                  M = MARTIN COUNTY
                  
                  FIGURES 2-A and 2-B. INDIANA COUNTIES WHERE PREVIOUS RESIDENTS of SELECTED SOUTHERN STATES EXCEEDED the INDIANA MEAN, ACCORDING to LAYTON'S DATA
                  
               
                     either weak or absent. Contemporary accounts (letters,
                    journals, emigrants' guidebooks) often accurately described the inhabitants'
                    origins in particular locations at certain times, but the information that they contain is
                    insufficient for statistical inquiry because the accounts are spatially limited and nearly anecdotal
                    in character.11 Census and non-census records that list pioneers'
                    sources by state simply do not provide enough locational detail to determine settlers'
                    specific origins. The problem is further complicated by the difficulty in determining precisely what
                    states or source areas constitute the upland South.
            An upland/lowland physical division of the South occurs at the Appalachian Fall Line, where the
                    newer, weaker rocks of the Coastal Plain physiographic province abut the older, stronger rocks of
                    the Piedmont physiographic province. The lowland is comprised of the Coastal Plain landform zone,
                    while the upland includes the Piedmont, Blue Ridge, Ridge and Valley (Shenandoah Valley),
                    Appalachian Plateau, and Interior Low Plateaus landform zones.12 The Fall Line
                    border trends from northeast to southwest through most southeastern Atlantic Coast states, placing
                    the eastern parts of 
                  Maryland, Virginia, North
                        Carolina, South Carolina
               , and 
                        Georgia
                     in the lowland South and their western or northwestern parts in the upland, along with
                            
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and West 
                        Virginia
                     (Figure 3). Not only does the physiography or geomorphology of the South change at the
                    Fall Line, research in southern history and culture has also uncovered varying degrees of contrast
                    between upland and lowland in population origins, historical development, agricultural and economic
                    systems, use of slaves, and general culture.13 Identification 
                  
                     11 Descriptions of southerners living in various parts of Indiana
                            appear in Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection
                                of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters, and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 53, 65, 113, 202, 262, 473, 497, 522–23, 524, 532; Shirley
                            S. McCord, comp., Travel Accounts of Indiana, 1679–1961: A
                                Collection of Observations by Wayfaring Foreigners, Itinerants, and Peripatetic Hoosiers
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), 63; Reuben Gold Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                                1748–1846 … (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904–1907), X, 317.
                  
                     12 William D. Thornbury, Regional Geomorphology of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 92–93, 30–31, 72–75, 88, 100,
                            109–10, 130–31, 185; Charles B. Hunt, Natural Regions of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (
                                San Francisco
                            , 1974), 3–15, 209–16, 253–75.
                  
                     13 In addition to geographical considerations historical and cultural
                            factors have been used to divide the South into upland and lowland regions. Some of these
                            factors are considered in Thomas P. Abernethy, Three 
                                    Virginia
                                 Frontiers (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1940), 30–31, 38–39, 45–75, 92–96;
                            Carl Bridenbaugh, Myths and Realities: Societies of the Colonial South (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 118–96; Fred B. Kniffen and Henry Glassie,
                            "Building in Wood in the Eastern 
                                United States
                            : A Time-Place Perspective," The Geographical Review,
                            LVI (January, 1966), 40–66; Hans Kurath, A Word Geography of the
                                Eastern 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 1949), 37–49; Robert D. Mitchell, "The Formation of Early
                            American Cultural Regions: An
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 3. THE UPLAND/LOWLAND DIVISION of SOUTHEASTERN LANDFORMS
                  
               
                     of settlers' counties of origin therefore becomes even
                    more significant if one is to understand clearly the southern-ness of Indiana's population.
            Unlike previous studies that have depended on state-based nativity sources,14
                    this paper uses two records that separate southerners into uplanders and lowlanders—as
                    defined physiographically—on the basis of county origin. The first record was collected
                    by the General Land Office. When pioneers bought federally owned territory at the land offices
                    scattered throughout Indiana, clerks requested their county and state or country of previous
                    residence. This information was entered in the Register of Receipts, along with the township and
                    range location, size, and cost of the purchased parcel.15 Many buyers named
                    Indiana counties as their former places of residence, often counties included 
                  Interpretation," in James R. Gibson, ed., European Settlement and
                                Development in North America: Essays on Geographical Change in Honour and Memory of
                                Andrew Hill Clark (
                                Toronto
                            , 1978), 66–90; 
                                Milton
                             Newton, "Cultural Preadaptation and the Upland South," in
                            H.J. Walker and William G. Haag, eds., Man and Cultural Heritage: Papers in
                                Honor of Fred B. Kniffen (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1974), 143–54; Frank L. Owsley, Plain Folk of the Old
                                South (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1949), 1–6, 90–149; Wilbur Zelinsky, "Where the
                            South Begins: The Northern Limit of the Cis-Appalachian South in Terms of Settlement
                            Landscape," Social Forces, XXX (December, 1951),
                            172–78.
                  
                     14 Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old
                            Northwest"; William O. Lynch, "The Flow of Colonists To and From Indiana
                            Before the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, XI (March,
                            1915), 1–7; Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Indiana Scene in the
                            1840's," ibid., XLVII (December, 1951),
                            333–56; Stephen S. Visher, "Distribution of the Birthplaces of
                            Indianians in 1870," ibid., XXVI (June, 1930), 126–42;
                            Visher, "Indiana's Population, 1850–1940, Sources and
                            Dispersal," ibid., XXXVIII (March, 1942), 51–59;
                            Elfrieda Lang, "Ohioans in Northern Indiana before 1850," ibid., XLIX (December, 1953), 391–404; Lang, "Analysis of
                            Northern Indiana's Population in 1850"; Lang, "Southern Migration
                            to Northern Indiana before 1850"; Rose, "Hoosier Origins"; Terry
                            G. Jordan, "The Imprint of the Upper and Lower South on Mid-Nineteenth Century 
                                Texas
                            ," Annals of the Association of American Geographers,
                            LVII (December, 1967), 667–68; Douglas K. Meyer, "Southern 
                                Illinois
                             Migration Fields: The Shawnee Hills in 1850," The
                                Professional Geographer, XXVIII (May, 1976), 154.
                  
                     15 Indiana's territory was divided into seven districts for
                            the purpose of land sale through centrally located land offices. Although the districts
                            contained numerous counties, they did not necessarily follow county boundaries; therefore,
                            the precise location of individual land parcels must be determined from the township and
                            range description provided for each purchase. The records of six of these districts are
                            available at the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State
                            Library and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Land in the seventh district, comprised of a narrow line of counties along the 
                                Ohio
                             border from 
                                Switzerland County
                             on the Ohio River north to 
                                Randolph County
                            , was sold at 
                                Cincinnati
                            . These records are held at the 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Center in 
                                Columbus
                            . Previous residences of southerners living in this seventh area are not
                            included in this article because the clerks did not record the county of origin for any land
                            purchasers except those coming from 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana. See Mayburt Stephenson Riegel, comp., Early
                                Ohioans' Residences from the Land Grant Records (Mansfield, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1976), vi, 1–15.
               
                     in the same land office district. These settlers could have
                    moved from nearby areas or from across the state to purchase land on the frontier; they could have
                    purchased more land to add to their holdings or could finally have bought the tract upon which they
                    were squatting. The rest of the settlers named counties in other states or places in foreign
                    countries. The previous residences of nearly 6,600 land purchasers who bought acreage between the
                    opening of the various land offices (as early as 1804 at 
                        Vincennes
                    ) and 1850 and who came from 
                  Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina,
                            South Carolina, Kentucky
               , or 
                        Tennessee
                     were collected from the registers.16
            
            The land office records encompass a sufficient number of settlers to assure statistical reliability,
                    although the 6,589 previous-residence locations included in this source are far fewer than the
                    birthplaces identified by the 178,847 southerners in the census. Three biases, however, may color
                    the land office records. First, only those individuals who purchased land directly from the
                    government are listed in the registers. This includes speculators but excludes all who purchased
                    land from the original or subsequent owners and all town dwellers who did not own land.17 Second, the registers do not contain a sex and age cross section that is
                    representative of the pioneer population. Because adult males comprised most of the buyers, the
                    previous residences of few females and still fewer children are recorded. While one can probably
                    assume that other family members came from the same place as the individual filing for land, data to
                    support that assumption are not available from the registers. Finally, previous residences rather
                    than birthplaces are listed on the registers. The two locations could have been but were not
                    necessarily the same and, despite Layton's statement, the precise degree of influence on an
                    individual's cultural development exerted by 
                  
                     16 Malcolm J. Rohrbough, "The Land Office Business in
                            Indiana, 1800–1840," in This Land of Ours: The Acquisition
                                and Disposition of the Public Domain (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 48. Although the 
                                Vincennes
                             land office was established in 1804, the sale of acreage did not begin until
                            April, 1807.
                  
                     17 The names and-former homes of investors who filed for large amounts
                            of land are regularly found in the registers. If these individuals' previous
                            residences were included in the data each time their names were mentioned,
                            over-representation of source counties could result. To avoid this contingency investors who
                            purchased numerous, large parcels of Indiana land were considered as speculators for the
                            purpose of data collection, and their names were omitted from the count. Further, if an
                            early settler obtained a tract from someone who had originally bought it from the
                            government—a land agent, a farmer with extra acreage, a pioneer who was moving
                            elsewhere—the previous residence of the second purchaser does not appear in the
                            land office records and thus could not be included in the data. For additional information
                            concerning land speculation in Indiana see Appendix to this article.
               
                     birthplace or previous residence is hard to determine without a
                    complete biography of each individual.
            The counties of previous residence for southern migrants to Indiana are identified in Figure 4.
                    According to the land office records, 
                        Kentucky
                     was the largest source of southerners, supplying 5,555 settlers from sixty-nine
                    counties. Most had former homes in the Bluegrass section of north central 
                        Kentucky
                    , well within the geographically defined upland South and close to Indiana. 
                        Virginia
                     was the second leading state of previous residence, with 533 migrants coming largely
                    from upland counties. The Virginians' former homes tended to be in the Shenandoah Valley,
                    clearly marked by a northeast to southwest concentration of locations midway across the state, or in
                    the northwestern section. North Carolinians comprised the third largest group of 240 pioneers.
                    Nearly all hailed from the north central Piedmont area, identified as a major source of the Quakers
                    who settled in east central and southwestern Indiana.18
                    
                        Tennessee
                     provided 125 settlers, most of whom came from the eastern upland. Previous residences
                    of migrants from 
                        Maryland
                     concentrated in the north central portion where the Shenandoah Valley crosses the
                    state, while pioneers who formerly lived in 
                        Delaware
                     came from throughout the state. Only seventeen settlers moved from 
                        South Carolina
                    , and nearly all were uplanders.
            According to the General Land Office records, then, the majority of southern customers for Hoosier
                    land migrated from the upland region. 
                        Kentucky
                     overwhelmingly dominated as the state from which southerners came, accounting for 84.3
                    percent of the total. 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     supplied 8.1 and 3.6 percent, respectively, of the previous residents from the South,
                    far less than the percentage of natives each state had provided according to the census. The
                    dramatic difference between the percentage of Hoosier migrants born in 
                  Kentucky, Virginia
               , and 
                        North Carolina
                     and that of settlers previously residing in those states suggests that many pioneers
                    moved westward in stages from their birthplaces to Indiana. A final source of data, the records of
                    the 
                  
                     18 Buley, Old Northwest, I, 25; Harlow Lindley,
                            "The Quakers in the Old Northwest," Proceedings of the
                                    Mississippi Valley Historical Association for the Year
                                1911–1912, V (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1912), 64–65; Jacquelyn S. Nelson, "The Military Response
                            of the Society of Friends in Indiana to the Civil War," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXXXI (June, 1985), 107; H.E. Smith, "The Quakers,
                            Their Migration to the Upper 
                                Ohio
                            , Their Customs and Discipline" (
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Society Publications, Vol. XXXVII;
                                    
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1928), 35–85; Frederick Jackson
                            Turner, The Frontier in American History (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 224; Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery: A
                                Study in Institutional History (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1896), 263, 268.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 4. PREVIOUS RESIDENCES OF
                                SOUTHERN MIGRANTS TO INDIANA
                                WHO PURCHASED LAND FROM THE
                                GENERAL LAND OFFICE
                  
               
                     Society of Indiana Pioneers, gives further support to this
                    generalization.
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers has been collecting genealogies of Hoosier settlers since its
                    founding in 1916. Applicants for membership submit genealogical information as proof that an
                    ancestor lived in Indiana prior to 1851. The information includes the settler's date of
                    birth and date of arrival in Indiana, as well as his or her county and state or country of birth and
                    previous residence. Since both birthplace and previous residence are located by county and state,
                    the origins of Indiana's southern-born settlers can be determined even more precisely than
                    from the land office Registers of Receipts. The society's records differ from those of the
                    land office in other ways. Women and children frequently appear as early Hoosiers. The requirement
                    that one have purchased government land to be listed does not apply, meaning that settlers who
                    bought farms from others or who were town dwellers may be included among the pioneers. Because the
                    society depends upon voluntary information and because no systematic sampling of all segments of the
                    frontier population has occurred, the records cannot be assumed to represent a cross section of
                    Indiana's population. Genealogies have come only from those who are aware of the society
                    and who are or were members; the membership fee may deter others from joining. Probably due to the
                    efforts of particularly interested individuals and families or to strong local historical and
                    genealogical societies, certain counties have a greater number of pioneers listed than others,
                    irrespective of population differences among them during the frontier era. However, when the records
                    of the Society of Indiana Pioneers are used in conjunction with other sources, they can make a
                    significant contribution to Indiana's migration history.
            Two maps present the data collected from nearly 1,500 genealogies of Indiana pioneers born and/or
                    having their last non-Hoosier residence in counties of 
                  Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
                            South Carolina, Kentucky
               , or 
                        Tennessee
                    . One figure plots the birthplaces of southerners living in Indiana while the other
                    marks their previous residences. The map denoting birthplaces indicates that most migrants hailed
                    from the upland South, particularly western 
                        Maryland
                    , the Shenandoah Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    , north central 
                        North Carolina
                    , eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the Bluegrass of 
                        Kentucky
                     (Figure 5). On the map marking previous residences, a shift of origins farther west
                    into the upland is apparent, evidenced by an increased number of pioneers coming from the 
                        Kentucky
                     Bluegrass and eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     and a decrease in those from western 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    's Shenandoah 
                    
                  FIGURE 5. BIRTHPLACES OF SOUTHERN
                                MIGRANTS TO INDIANA LISTED IN
                            THE SOCIETY OF INDIANA PIONEERS RECORDS
                  
               
                     Valley (Figure 6). However, a similar number of settlers
                    claimed birthplaces and former homes in Piedmont 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            According to the Pioneer Society records, most of the southern migrants to Indiana were natives of
                    three states: 
                        Virginia
                     contained 305 settlers' birthplaces, 
                        Kentucky
                     was second with 271, and 
                        North Carolina
                     ranked third with 241. Yet the count of settlers' previous residences places 
                        Kentucky
                     first with 466, 
                        North Carolina
                     second with 221, and 
                        Virginia
                     third with 149. This difference in ranking indicates that numerous native Virginians
                    moved at least once before they arrived in Indiana and that more migrants had lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     than were born there. 
                        North Carolina
                     had nearly the same number of natives and previous residents, suggesting that many Tar
                    Heel natives made their first interstate movement directly to Indiana.
            The same general pattern emerged when the land office records were compared to the census: a larger
                    percentage of previous residences than birthplaces were in 
                        Kentucky
                     and a smaller percentage of previous residences than birthplaces were in 
                        Virginia
                    . The significant shift from 
                        Virginia
                     birthplaces to 
                        Kentucky
                     previous residences tends to confirm the theory of step migration westward, with many
                    pioneers moving from their birthplaces to at least one interim location, often 
                        Kentucky
                    , before they arrived in Indiana. The pattern also supports evidence for step migration
                    as uncovered through the "child ladder method," which examines the gradual
                    migration of pioneer families from the parents' birthplaces through the children's
                    birthplaces to their current residences as recorded in the census schedules.19
                    And it further strengthens the uplander characterization of Indiana's southern population.
                    Most were born in the upland and moved within the region before continuing on to the Hoosier state.
                    Pioneers born in the lowland South also tended to settle in the upland prior to migration to
                    Indiana, and while living there they probably were acculturated to at least some of the
                    region's traits.
            The migration linkage and associated cultural relationship between the upland South and Indiana is
                    clear, but the migratory 
                  
                     19 William A. Bowen, The Willamette Valley: Migration and
                                Settlement on the 
                                    Oregon
                                 Frontier (Seattle, 1978), 26–40; Jesse S. Douglas,
                            "Origins of the Population of 
                                Oregon
                             in 1850," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, XLI (April,
                            1950), 105–108; Lang, "Southern Migration to Northern Indiana Before
                            1850," 352–53; Barnes F. Lathrop, "History from the Census
                            Returns," Southwestern Historical Quarterly, LI (April, 1948),
                            293–312; Lathrop, "Migration into East 
                                Texas
                            , 1835–1860," ibid., LII (July, 1948),
                            1–31.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 6. PREVIOUS RESIDENCES OF
                                SOUTHERN MIGRANTS TO INDIANA
                                LISTED IN THE SOCIETY OF INDIANA PIONEERS RECORDS
                  
               
                     and cultural origins of the pioneers who settled the upland
                    area are uncertain because the region began to be populated more than a century before the census
                    bureau started recording the birthplaces of inhabitants. However, analyses of surnames recorded in
                    the 1790 census provide general outlines of the region's ethnic composition and suggest the
                    sources of its settlers.20 Individuals with surnames indicating English ethnic
                    origins dominated in the 
                        United States
                     population, with the Scotch-Irish and Germans present in lesser amounts. Settlers of
                    English background also formed the majority in the lowland South, but the upland region was
                    ethnically distinctive because Celtic and German population percentages there were significantly
                    higher while English percentages decreased.21 Many of the settlers with English
                    backgrounds were natives of the American colonies who had moved to the upland South from the lowland
                    areas or southeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , while many of the Scotch-Irish and Germans had arrived more recently and had moved
                    directly into the interior in search of available, inexpensive, and fertile land.22
            
            In about 1725 migrants entered the upland South through the northern Shenandoah
                    Valley, the wide lowland nestled between the Piedmont and the eastern edge of the
                    Appalachians. Soon settlers had expanded from north central 
                        Maryland
                     to southwestern 
                        Virginia
                     and crossed the Blue Ridge Mountains into the Carolina Piedmont,
                    finally reaching the southernmost extremities of the Shenandoah in eastern Tennessee by the late
                        1760s.23 Just before the Revolution migrants from 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                  
                     20 American Council of Learned Societies, "Report of the
                            Committee on Linguistic and National Stocks in the Population of the 
                                United States
                            ," Annual Report of the American Historical Association
                                for the Year 1931 (3 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1932), I, 107–441; Forrest McDonald and Ellen Shapiro
                            McDonald, "The Ethnic Origins of the American People, 1790," William and Mary Quarterly, Third Series, XXXVII (April, 1980), 179–99.
                  
                     21 McDonald and McDonald, "The Ethnic Origins of the American
                            People," 199.
                  
                     22 Bridenbaugh, Myths and Realities,
                            123–28, 130–34; Wayland F. Dunaway, The Scotch-Irish of
                                Colonial 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1944), 59; John Florin, The Advance of Settlement in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 1638–1850: A Geographical Interpretation (University Park,
                            Pa., 1977), 19; James G. Leyburn, The Scotch-Irish: A Social History (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1962), 185–86, 200; Stella Sutherland, Population Distribution in Colonial America (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 149; Walter M. Kollmorgen, "The 
                                Pennsylvania
                             German Farmer," in Ralph Wood, ed., The 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Germans (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1942), 31.
                  
                     23 Paula Hathaway Anderson-Green, "The New River Frontier
                            Settlement on the 
                                Virginia
                            -
                                North Carolina
                             Border, 1760–1820," 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, LXXXVI (October, 1978), 415;
                            Bridenbaugh, Myths and Realities, 123–30; Sister Mary de
                            Lourdes Gohmann, "Political Nativism in 
                                Tennessee
                             to 1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, The Catholic University of America,
                            1938), 4–5; Robert D. Mitchell, "The Shenandoah
                            Valley Frontier," Annals of the Association of American
                                Geographers, LXII (September, 1972), 469; Tommy W. Rogers, "Origin and
                            Destination of 
                                Tennessee
                             Migrants, 1850–1860," 
                        
                                    Tennessee
                                 Historical Quarterly, XXVII (Summer, 1968), 118.
               
                    
                    
                        North Carolina
                     began moving through the 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     into eastern 
                        Kentucky
                    , and after the war such heavy migration focused on the Bluegrass region of north
                    central 
                        Kentucky
                     that the state rapidly became a trans-Appalachian extension of the upland South.24 The entire settlement region eventually incorporated a crescent of territory
                    reaching from north central 
                        Maryland
                     through the Shenandoah Valley, Piedmont North and 
                        South Carolina
                    , eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , and north central 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana.
            Migration to the upland South brought many people of American, European, Indian, and African origins
                    into contact with each other, and eventually their respective cultures mingled. The upland became an
                    area of "cultural preadaptation" where aspects of various cultures were combined,
                    tested, sifted, and selected until a new culture emerged, an amalgam of older cultures best suited
                    to newly encountered conditions.25 Settlers from two major culture
                    hearths—southeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Chesapeake Bay area—joined between 1725 and 1775 in the Shenandoah
                    Valley-Piedmont 
                        North Carolina
                     region to create a new upland South cultural hearth.26 Frederick
                    Jackson Turner wrote that settlers moving into the upland "built up a new 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in contrast with the old 
                        Quaker
                     colonies, and a new South in contrast with the tidewater South."27 This developing center of "trait fusion" expanded as uplanders spread
                    into 
                  Tennessee, Kentucky
               , and northwestern 
                        Virginia
                    .28 As natives or migrants from the original upland South and its
                    extensions crossed the Ohio River, they transferred their culture to Indiana.
            The impact of southerners in general and uplanders in particular on Indiana's culture and
                    progress was undoubtedly greater than the portion of the population that they accounted for would
                    suggest. Trans-Appalachian development, land availability, and transportation routes defined their
                    entrance into and dispersal throughout the Hoosier state in advance of other immigrant groups, with
                    original southern settlement along the Ohio River and gradual movement
                    northward as more land was ceded by the Indians.29 As the "first
                    effective settlers" they set the tone 
                  
                     24 John D. Barnhart, "Frontiersmen and Planters in the
                            Formation of 
                                Kentucky
                            ," Journal of Southern History, VII (February, 1941),
                            19; Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Trans-Appalachian Frontier: People, Societies,
                                and Institutions, 1775–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 23–24.
                  
                     25 Newton, "Cultural Preadaptation and the Upland
                            South," 143–50.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Mitchell
                            , "The Formation of Early American Cultural Regions," 74.
                  
                     27 Turner, Frontier in American History, 100.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Mitchell
                            , "The Formation of Early American Cultural Regions," 76.
                  
                     29 Rose, "Hoosier Origins,"
                        219–28.
               
                     for future development because "the specific
                    characteristics of the first group able to effect a viable, self-perpetuating society are of crucial
                    significance for the later social and cultural geography of the area…."30 Their influence was further extended by many of their Hoosier native children
                    who helped settle the rest of the state. In an article tracing the origins of a midwestern culture
                    James M. Bergquist wrote that because southerners first settled much of the Hoosier state,
                    "fewer migrants from the Middle and New 
                        England
                     states moved directly to Indiana during the period from 1800 to 1840, when much of the
                    state passed from a wilderness to an established society." Turner considered southern
                    pioneers and their descendants to have held such supremacy in the state that "not until a
                    few years before the Civil War did the Northern current exert a decisive influence upon
                        Indiana."31 The early dominance of southerners in the state seems
                    to have reduced or discouraged the immigration of settlers native to other regions, thus reinforcing
                    the cultural ascendancy of the South. For example, Richard Lyle Power suggested that their very
                    presence was one reason why other settlers failed to view the state as an attractive frontier, and
                    another scholar claimed that "Indiana was never a favorite stopping-place for the New
                    Englanders, for the Southern element was strong here…."32
            
            The competition between South and North for cultural hegemony in Indiana continued throughout the
                    frontier era, despite the advantage that first settlement gave southerners. Even as early as 1826,
                    perhaps reflecting their fear of losing economic, social, and political control of Indiana to
                    incoming cultural groups, southerners "seemed to entertain no small apprehension, that this
                    also would be a Yankee state," mirroring 
                        Ohio
                    's course of development.33 They had some reasons for
                    concern, for by 1850 many pioneers from other areas had joined them in the Hoosier state: almost 3
                    percent of those born in the 
                        United States
                     but outside of Indiana were from New 
                  England;
                            Pennsylvania, New
                            York
               , and 
                        New Jersey
                     together accounted 
                  
                     30 Quotation from Zelinsky, Cultural Geography of the 
                                    United States
                                , 13; see also Johansen, "A Working Hypothesis,"
                            11–12.
                  
                     31 Bergquist, "Tracing the Origins of a Midwestern
                            Culture," 2; Turner, Frontier in American History, 225.
                  
                     32 Richard Lyle Power, "Wet Lands and the Hoosier
                            Stereotype," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XXII (June, 1935), 33–48; Power, Planting Corn Belt
                                Culture, 72–74, 81–86; Lois K.M. Rosenberry, The
                                Expansion of New 
                                    England
                                : The Spread of New 
                                    England
                                 Settlement and Institutions to the Mississippi River,
                                1620–1865 (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 254.
                  
                     33 Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers,
                        440.
               
                     for nearly 20 percent; and over 30 percent were Ohioans.34 The unusually large number of southern settlers and their descendants,
                    however, maintained Indiana's unique status among states of the Old Northwest.
            Data from census records or from county histories, atlases, and directories provide significant proof
                    of the southern-ness of Indiana's population prior to 1850. That most southern migrants to
                    the Hoosier state were uplanders is also apparent, as shown by the counties of previous residence
                    for those who purchased land from the government or by the counties of birth and previous residence
                    for those who are listed in a genealogical record. The evidence supporting such conclusions also
                    substantiates studies of Hoosier culture that have revealed similarities in dialect, religion,
                    political allegience, building techniques, and economy between the upland South and Indiana. It
                    further provides support and encouragement for future research to clarify the associations and to
                    trace the sources of modifications between the cultures of the two regions.
            
                    APPENDIX
                
            
                    Land Speculators and the General Land Office Records
                
            Indiana was not immune from land speculators and their impact on development, although such
                    individuals did not account for nearly as many buyers as in other states. Everett Dick, The Lure of the Land (Lincoln, Neb., 1970), 199–219; Paul Wallace Gates,
                    "Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                        Prairie
                     Counties of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV
                    (March, 1939), 1–26; Gates, "The Role of the Land Speculator in Western
                    Development," 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Magazine of History and Biography, LXVI (July, 1942), 314–33;
                    Reginald Horsman, "Changing Images of the Public Domain: Historians and the Shaping of
                    Midwest Frontiers," in This Land of Ours: The Acquisition and Disposition of
                        the Public Domain (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1978), 60–86; Edward H. Rastatter, "Nineteenth Century Public Land
                    Policy: The Case for the Speculator," in David C. Klingaman and Richard K. Vedder, eds.,
                        Essays in Nineteenth Century Economic History: The Old Northwest
                            (
                  Athens, Ohio
               , 1975), 118–37; Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The
                        Land Office Business: The Settlement and Administration of American Public Lands,
                        1789–1837 (
                        New York
                    , 1968), 211–12, 230. Before the Civil War some southerners, generally
                    lawyers, bankers, capitalists, politicians, or planters, were involved in land speculation in the
                    Midwest, but states west of Indiana received most of their attention. Paul Wallace Gates,
                    "Southern Investments in Northern Lands before the Civil War," Journal of Southern History, V (May, 1939), 155–85. Hardly any speculative
                    purchases by outsiders were made in central Indiana, and although more occurred in southern Indiana,
                    for example the 4,500 acres bought by two South Carolinians in 1836, the total amount "was
                    small when compared with that in northern Indiana" because mostly northern acres remained
                        
                  
                     34 LaFollette, "Interstate Migration and Indiana
                            Culture," 347–58; 
                                United States
                            , Seventh Census, 1850 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1853), Tables XV, XVI, XVII, pp. xxxvi-xxxviii.
               
                     to be sold by the mid-1830s when this activity began in
                    earnest. Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy," 4–6; Gates,
                    "Southern Investments in Northern Lands," 168. Purchasers from North and South,
                    some led and encouraged by Henry L. Ellsworth, the premier investor, publicist, and booster of the
                    Grand 
                        Prairie
                    , and others simply attracted by speculation fever, amassed large tracts of territory in
                    the northwestern prairie counties. Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy,"
                    6–26. Many of these men were absentee owners who held the land until prices promised a
                    sufficient return while others, like Ellsworth himself, intended to increase the value of their
                    investments by hiring tenant farmers and herdsmen and promoting agricultural experimentation. Ray
                    Allen Billington, Westward Expansion: A History of the American Frontier (2nd ed., 
                        New York
                    , 1960), 305–306; Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy,"
                    8–12, 14–15, 20–26; Paul Wallace Gates, "Hoosier Cattle
                    Kings," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV (March, 1948), 1–24.
                    One southerner, William J. Grayson of Charleston, 
                        South Carolina
                    , responded to Ellsworth's salesmanship in 1836 by investing $10,000
                    in 7,000 acres of prairie that, after fruitlessly waiting for land values to increase, he eventually
                    sold to Ellsworth for a disappointing $13,312. Gates, "Land Policy and
                    Tenancy," 12–13; Gates, "Southern Investments in Northern
                    Lands," 156–57. In 1835 a trio of Tidewater Virginians purchased 22,500 acres in
                    northwest Indiana, territory which never attracted land hungry settlers and was a decade later being
                    offered at tax delinquency sales: "Their investment was a pure speculation and none of the
                    three apparently intended to settle upon the lands." Gates, "Southern Investments
                    in Northern Lands," 156–58. For Indiana the effect of speculating southerners on
                    the distribution of previous residences may be minimal because, according to the locations they
                    reported to the land office clerks, most of the land investors seem to have come from the North. Of
                    the individuals whose counties of previous residence outside Indiana are given in Gates's
                    article about speculators in northern Indiana, forty were from the North and only fourteen came from
                    the South. Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy," 5, 12–17. Eleven of the
                    fourteen were lowlanders, most of whom came from the urban centers of 
                  Baltimore, Washington
               , D.C., Norfolk, and Charleston; the uplanders were from central
                    and western 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Lauderdale County
                    , 
                        Alabama
                    , located right on the Fall Line itself. According to Gates's article about
                    southern investors in the North, the speculators selecting acreage in Indiana resided in
                            
                  Delaware, Washington
               , D.C., 
                        Richmond
                    , and 
                        Charleston
                     and 
                  Columbia, South Carolina
               , all lowland locations. Gates, "Southern
                    Investments in Northern Lands," 156–57, 162, 164–65,
                    168–69. Although the lists are not complete, they do suggest that the few southern
                    speculators were generally lowlanders, while as a rule southerners purchasing land in Indiana were
                    uplanders. The rarity of upland southern investors may confirm the traditional description of most
                    uplanders as yeoman farmers, not wealthy and unlikely to have the large amounts of unencumbered
                    capital needed for speculative ventures.
         
         
         
            Homer E. Capehart: Phonograph Entrepreneur
            William B. Pickett∗
            
            The juke boxes of the late 1920s played recorded music for a nickel a tune and brought new prosperity
                    to the recording industry, fame to scores of bands and recording artists, and joy to millions of
                    Americans. People of all ages, incomes, and occupations listened and danced to the music of Paul
                    Whiteman, the Dorsey brothers, and Benny Goodman; to songs such as "The Music Goes Round
                    and Round" or the "Beer-Barrel Polka." "Just as the Kodak made
                    every man his own artist," said one historian, "with the phonograph every man
                    became his own musician," and popular music became a craze. The Original Dixieland Jazz
                    Band cut the first jazz record in 1917, and by the early 1920s sales numbered in the millions.1 People everywhere, especially the young, responded to the rhythms with fast
                    dancing. The collegiate, the 
                        Charleston
                    , the black bottom, and the tango replaced the shimmy and the toddle that had been
                    popular during World War I. "Dancing for the youth of the twenties," said another
                    writer, "was not merely a pleasurable recreation; it was a way of assimilating to their own
                    uses one of the truly new artistic forms of twentieth-century America."2 One person, perhaps more than any other, was at the center of this prosperity built on juke
                    box music and dancing. He was Homer E. Capehart, former 
                        Pike County
                    , Indiana, farm boy turned phonograph entrepreneur. Capehart's participation in
                    the transformation of American popular culture in the 1930s brought him wealth and, later,
                    involvement in politics.
            
               
                  ∗ William B. Pickett is professor of history, Rose-Hulman
                        Institute of Technology, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 Daniel Boorstin, The Americans: The Democratic
                        Experience (
                            New York
                        , 1973), 383–84.
               
                  2 Paula S. Fass, "Symbols of Liberation," in John H.
                        Cary and Julius Weinberg, eds., The Social Fabric: American Life from the Civil War
                            to the Present (4th ed., 2 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1984), II, 217.
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXII (September, 1986). © 1986, Trustees of Indiana
                        University.
            
            
            
               HOMER E. CAPEHART, C. 1930
               Courtesy William B. Pickett
            
            
            The automobile and the dynamo provided a technological and economic base for the jazz age. Henry Ford
                    had set up his moving assembly line to make available a Model-T automobile to every family. His
                    efforts, and those of his emulators, began the transformation of a nation. In 1900 the annual output
                    of automobiles was 4,000. By 1929 this number reached 4,800,000, with 26,000,000 cars and trucks
                    already on the road. "Machinery," declared Ford, "is the new
                        Messiah."3 This avowal, whether Ford specifically intended it or
                    not, included electrical machinery. In the first two decades of the twentieth century the output of
                    electric power increased more than nineteen times, from 6 billion kilowatt-hours to 117 billion.4 Among the new electrical appliances were refrigerators, radios, and
                    phonographs. Thomas Edison had invented the phonograph in the late 1870s, but it took another twenty
                    years for the work of Emile Berliner and Eldridge Johnson to make possible the mass-production
                    phonograph that played disc records. More than five hundred thousand phonographs came off the
                    production lines in 1914, and within just five years the number exceeded two million. Soon,
                    thereafter, businessmen began to see the commercial possibilities of adding coin slots to the
                    phonographs, making them into juke boxes.5
            
            During the 1920s juke box companies proliferated, and by 1939 there were five major manufacturers.
                    The best known was the Rudolph Wurlitzer Company of North Tonawanda, 
                        New York
                    —the successful musical instrument manufacturer that in 1934 turned to
                    producing and selling coin-operated phonographs. Capehart, who later would become the first person
                    elected by Indiana voters to three terms in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, was the man who brought the juke box to Wurlitzer.
            Capehart was famous in the coin and luxury phonograph industry before he went to 
                        New York
                    , and to an important extent his career symbolized the age. Like Ford he was a product
                    of rural America. Both men recognized the exciting opportunities that were available in the new
                    technological age; both knew the importance of discipline, diligence, and organization. Although
                    intrigued with mechanical inventions for what they could do, Capehart, however, was not a tinkerer
                    like Ford. He was instead a salesman and promoter. In fact, the careers of men like 
                  
                     3 William E. Leuchtenburg, The Perils of Prosperity,
                                1914–1932 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1958), 186–87; Henry Ford quotation, ibid., 187.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 190.
                  
                     5 Boorstin, Americans, 379–82;
                            Leuchtenburg, Perils of Prosperity, 188.
               
                     Capehart were models for advertiser Bruce Barton's
                    best-selling novel of the mid-1920s, The Man Nobody Knows, a book that portrayed
                    Jesus as a salesman and the parables as "the most powerful advertisements of all
                    time." Barton wrote about a man who "picked up twelve men from the bottom ranks of
                    business and forged them into an organization that conquered the world."6
            
            In the world of juke boxes Barton could have been talking about Capehart. Overcoming rural origins
                    and shyness, the boy from southern Indiana became an entrepreneur. He developed an eye for
                    labor-saving inventions and the personal qualities of enthusiasm, warmth, and persuasiveness. He was
                    also atuned to popular demand and was extremely well organized. At Wurlitzer, Capehart supervised
                    the manufacture and sale of nearly 150,000 juke boxes, reversing the company's declining
                    fortunes and in the process becoming a millionaire.7 Such a turn of events would
                    have been difficult to predict. The man Fortune magazine later described as
                    "one of the highest-powered, highest-pressure salesman this country has ever
                    produced" was so bashful as a youth that he preferred not to recite in Sunday school class.
                    The son of a tenant farmer, the young Capehart fed livestock, plowed cornfields, performed menial
                    chores. He had no formal education beyond high school and virtually no interest in what made
                    machinery work. Years later his son, Indianapolis attorney Homer E. Capehart, Jr., recalled that he
                    never saw his father pound a nail in a board or use a screw driver.8
                    Nevertheless, after a brief time selling baking powder door-to-door, Capehart began to sense new
                    possibilities. Then, with American entry into World War I, he joined the army. Enlisting in the
                    spring of 1917, he became an orderly and scout with the American forces stationed on the Mexican
                    border. After a transfer to Camp Lewis, 
                        Washington
                    , in July, Capehart became a supply sergeant and purchased horse feed and fuel oil for
                    the 7,000-man American expeditionary force in Siberia. This experience developed a capacity to think
                    in large 
                  
                     6 Leuchtenburg, Perils of Prosperity, 188–89.
                  
                     7 For Homer E. Capehart's childhood and business career see
                            William B. Pickett, "Homer E. Capehart: The Making of a Hoosier Senator"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1974); for Capehart's influence on the phonograph and juke box
                            industry see also John Krivine, Juke Box Saturday Night (
                                London
                            , 1977), 27–54.
                  
                     8 "The Capehart," Fortune, XXIII
                            (February, 1941), 63–64; Homer E. Capehart, Jr., interview by William B. Pickett,
                            October 13, 1969, tape 1, transcript p. 20 (Indiana University Oral History Project, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
               
                     quantities and to manage men, skills that he later used as a
                    sales manager and manufacturer.9
            
            Capehart exhibited his new maturity soon after his discharge from the army in 1919. Employment with
                    several companies provided sales experience and increased responsibilities. At the Burton-Paige
                    Company he sold electric milking machines. He then sold tractors for the J. I. Case Company. By 1926
                    Capehart was the general sales manager for the Holcomb & Hoke Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , manufacturer of glass-enclosed machines called "Butter-Kist" that
                    popped corn and toasted peanuts, emitting a pleasing, mouth-watering fragrance in theater lobbies,
                    sweet shops, and drugstores.10
            
            Employment with Holcomb & Hoke was a turning point for Capehart. Although he was unaware of
                    it, selling Butter-Kist had prepared him for entrepreneurship. Tutored under James I. Holcomb,
                    Capehart learned the importance of optimism and enthusiasm in selling small businessmen the promise
                    of future profits on sales. He also learned the importance of technology in the new post-World War I
                    age. The most persuasive of Holcomb's strictures, however, was that independence, profits,
                    and status were available to the man who manufactured what he sold.11 Capehart
                    agreed.
            On one of his business trips to 
                        Cleveland
                    , Capehart had met Thomas Small, the inventor of an electrical machine that would play
                    twenty-eight records on both sides continuously; that is, until someone turned it off. To Capehart,
                    following Holcomb's teachings, it was a logical step from persuading shopkeepers that they
                    could make money selling popcorn to convincing them to sell a recorded song. Just as the aroma of
                    popped corn attracted more customers, cheerful music would attract more shoppers, ice cream eaters,
                    and soda pop (and beer) drinkers. Discovering that Holcomb & Hoke was not interested in
                    developing the new device, 
                  
                     9 Capehart's military service record is located in the
                            Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and
                            Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; see also Homer E. Capehart, memoir, 1943, pp. 98–101, manuscript in
                            the possession of Homer E. Capehart, Jr.; Homer E. Capehart, interview by William B.
                            Pickett, December 11–12, 1969, tape 2, transcript pp. 21–22 (Indiana
                            University Oral History Project); for more information on American involvement in Siberia
                            see Betty M. Unterberger, America's Siberian Expedition,
                                1918–1920 (Durham, N.C., 1956).
                  
                     10 Interview with Homer E. Capehart, Jr., October 13, 1969, tape 1,
                            transcript p. 2; George E. Gill, "Brief History of the Packard Manufacturing
                            Corporation," 1944, p. 13, unpublished manuscript in possession of Homer E.
                            Capehart, Jr.
                  
                     11 James Irving Holcomb, Salesology of Butter-Kist
                                Popcorn and Peanut Machines (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 17, 179.
               
                     Capehart decided to leave Butter-Kist and go out on his own. He
                    found engineers, investors, and cabinet makers; overcame patent difficulties and mechanical
                    problems; organized a sales force that included a number of his Holcomb & Hoke regional
                    managers—men who felt Capehart had helped make them successful and were loyal to him.
                    Within six months he was manufacturing a coin-operated phonograph called "The
                    Orchestrope." Five years later he had a large factory in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and his products were nationally known.12 The home model
                    "Capehart 400" phonograph became widely acclaimed as the Steinway of phonographs
                    in an effort to appeal to status-conscious consumers, and people such as Marshall Field III, R.J.
                    Reynolds, the king of Siam, Andrew Citroën, Carl Fisher, Vincent Astor, and the president
                    of General Motors Corporation, Alfred P. Sloan, owned one.13
            
            With Small's invention and his own personality and promotional abilities, Capehart became a
                    phonograph tycoon. By 1927 he was founder and president of Capehart Automatic Phonograph Corporation
                    (later the Capehart Corporation of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana). His sales force sold phonographs to more than three hundred musical
                    instrument dealers who, in turn, sold them to restaurant and drugstore owners. By autumn, 1929, the
                    Capehart Corporation—the president's name carved in stone above the factory
                    entrance and its annual business in the $4 million range—had plans to triple
                    its volume in the following year.14
            
            The Wall Street crash of 1929 and the accompanying Great Depression almost shattered
                    Capehart's dream. He had not yet gained financial control of the company when the debacle
                    occurred. His board of directors, worried about declining sales, defaulting contracts, and
                    Capehart's seemingly unquenchable drive to expand, fired him. He lost both his company and
                    the rights to use his own name and had to start over again.
            The Depression ended the age of prohibition, speakeasies, and flappers, and the downturn demoralized
                    most American sales managers. Refusing to be stopped, Capehart, during 1933-1934, began a new
                    enterprise, the Packard Manufacturing Company, to produce and sell an improved record changer. He
                    also signed 
                  
                     12 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 13, 1929.
                  
                     13 "The Capehart," 119; William R. Deaton, interview
                            by William B. Pickett, July 1, 1969, tape 1, transcript pp. 3–7 (Indiana
                            University Oral History Project); for the Capehart 400's reputation see Oliver Read
                            and Walter L. Welch, From Tin Foil to Stereo: Evolution of the Phonograph (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1959), 296.
                  
                     14 Kin Hubbard, ed., A Book of Indiana ([
                                Indianapolis
                            ?], 1929), 642; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 27, 1929.
               
                    
                    
                  HOME OF THE CAPEHART ORCHESTROPE,
                                FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
                  
                  Reproduced from Capehart Automatic Phonograph Corporation. The
                                Capehart Orchestrope (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., n.d.), 16.
               
                    
                    
                  HOMER E. CAPEHART AND "SWEATER GIRLS" AT THE CAPEHART FACTORY
                  
                  Courtesy William B Pickett.
                an option to purchase yet another invention, the so-called
                        "multi-selector."15 Instead of playing the song that
                    happened to be next on the stack, this dial-like mechanical device allowed a juke box patron to
                    select any song he or she desired. It was an invention that, with the help of the Rudolph Wurlitzer
                    Company, would revolutionize the coin phonograph industry.16
            
            Wurlitzer's declining sales and indebtedness of over $5 million by 1933 had
                    caused the company to forsake musical instruments to sell furniture and refrigerators. Realizing
                    that the multi-selector was beyond his ability to manufacture—and probably sensing a
                    personal opportunity—Capehart offered to sell the invention to Wurlitzer. Perhaps to
                    minimize their risk, company 
                  
                     15 Capehart memoir, 142; Pickett, "Homer E.
                            Capehart," 72.
                  
                     16 Homer E. Capehart to Farney R. Wurlitzer, April 3, 1933,
                            Correspondence Files (The Wurlitzer Company, North Tonawanda, 
                                New York
                            ); Lloyd Graham, "The Story of the Rudolph Wurlitzer Family
                            Business," unpublished manuscript, 1956, p. 111 (The Wurlitzer Company).
               
                    
                    
                  CAPEHART ORCHESTROPE COMMERCIAL MODEL
                  
                  Reproduced from Capehart Automatic Phonograph Corporation, The
                                Capehart Orchestrope (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., n.d.), 3.
                executives invited Capehart to become general sales manager and vice-president of the coin
                    phonograph production at North Tonawanda, located between Buffalo and Niagara Falls.17
            
            Wurlitzer's forthcoming prosperity reflected Capehart's knowledge that good service
                    was essential. Improving on his earlier method of selling to "locations" where the
                    instruments would be played, Capehart sold juke boxes through distributors to
                    operators—independent businessmen who bought scores of juke boxes and rented them to
                    drugstore and tavern owners. The operators, who received three-fourths of the nickels from each
                    location, were specialists in providing service. They replaced unpopular records and worn needles,
                    repaired broken electrical circuits, and, of course, as part of the day's activities,
                    collected the nickels.18
            
            Another improvement in Capehart's strategy was the annual model, a concept that he borrowed
                    from the owner of a 
                  
                     17 Graham, "The Story of the Rudolph Wurlitzer Family
                            Business," 156; Read and Welch, From Tin Foil to Stereo, 314.
                  
                     18 "William F. Merchant, interview by William B. Pickett,
                            December 11, 1970, tape 1, transcript p. 19 (Indiana University Oral History Project);
                            Capehart memoir, 152–53.
               
                     Capehart 400, Alfred P. Sloan of General Motors.19 Worried that the earlier-model Wurlitzer juke boxes in their hand-rubbed hardwood
                    cabinets too frequently "looked like coffins standing on their ends," Capehart
                    designed the juke boxes so that they became ever more decorative, colorful, brightly lighted, and,
                    sometimes, mechanically sophisticated. Appearing in twenty different trade publications reaching
                    some 275,000 people, a Wurlitzer advertisement described one new model as "the only
                    automatic phonograph cabinet with the spectacular, eye-arresting power of varied colored light in
                        motion."20 A later model came in three possible combinations of
                    translucently colored plastics—red, amber, and green. The machines played twenty-four
                    selections and took nickels, dimes, and quarters.21
            
            Meanwhile, Capehart had become an impresario. He used annual conventions and contests to create a
                    spirit of competition among his salesmen. He toured the nation's major cities in 1936,
                    giving sales conventions at each stop. The finale, a party at the Waldorf Astoria in 
                        New York City
                    , was called the "Homer E. Capehart Appreciation Banquet" and featured 
                        Milton
                     Berle, Gypsy Rose Lee, Benny Goodman's quartet, and Guy Lombardo's
                        orchestra.22
            
            Capehart's efforts resulted in Wurlitzer's net assets reaching $13
                    million in 1935, with a net loss of only $470,000. Net gains on operations the following
                    year reached $550,000. Two years later net assets were $20 million. Capehart
                    sold over 148,000 juke boxes and made Wurlitzer the recognized leader in the industry.23 In 1939 some three hundred thousand juke boxes were operating in America, using thirty
                    million records a year. Two years later ten thousand small businessmen, each one operating anywhere
                    from ten to two thousand juke boxes, averaged $120 a month on each machine.24 Ironically, along with his fellow promoters of the 1920s and 1930s, Capehart helped to
                    bring about a transformation in the national character. From the days 
                  
                     19 Capehart memoir, 161.
                  
                     20 Rudolph Wurlitzer Company magazine entitled Heads
                            Up!, I (October, 1938), back cover.
                  
                     21
                            The Billboard: The World's Foremost Amusement Weekly, L (July 16,
                            1938), 64–70.
                  
                     22 Program for the Wurlitzer Company Appreciation Banquet, December 6,
                            1936, microfilm, Homer E. Capehart Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     23 Graham, "The Story of the Rudolph Wurlitzer Family
                            Business," 111–12; Capehart memoir, 149; Read and Welch, From Tin Foil to Stereo, 316; T. Murray, "You Pay before You
                            Play," Nation's Business, XXVIII (June, 1940), 110.
                  
                     24 Murray, "You Pay before You Play," 30; Geoffrey
                            Parsons, Jr., and Robert Yoder, "A Nickel a Tune," Reader's Digest, XXXVIII (February, 1941), 114.
               
                    
                    
                  THE WURLITZER TWELVE-SELECTION MODEL P30 OF 1935
                  Courtesy William B. Pickett.
               
                    
                    
                  A WURLITZER 800 OF 1940
                  Courtesy William B. Pickett.
               
                     of the colonial settlements, thrift, frugality, and saving had
                    been important principles. Thanks to the lure of the automobile and the appeal of jazz—as
                    marketed by men such as Ford and Capehart, who clung to the old values
                    themselves—consumer spending became a virtue and the American economy one not of scarcity
                    but of abundance.25
            
            By 1938 Capehart's salary at Wurlitzer was around $80,000 a year, his holdings of
                    Wurlitzer stock worth over $2 million.26 With Capehart's
                    increasing affluence he had begun to buy farm land near his childhood home in southern Indiana and
                    to think of a more individualistic, free enterprise, political philosophy with himself as its
                    embodiment. Capehart felt that the persistence, enthusiasm, hard work, and salesmanship of his own
                    experience—not handouts and increasing federal power—were the best answers to
                    economic depressions. It was a simple solution from a man with remarkable ability to overcome
                    disadvantages and misfortune. With the growing reaction to the uncertain course of Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's New Deal, it was also an increasingly popular appeal. For Homer E. Capehart it
                    was a new beginning, this time in Republican politics.
            
               
                  25 Leuchtenburg, Perils of Prosperity, 198.
               
                  26 Homer E. Capehart, 
                            United States
                         Individual Income Tax Return for 1937, Capehart Papers; Hilton P. Hornaday to
                        Raymond E. Willis, June 11, 1938, "June, 1938" File, Box 78, Raymond E. Willis
                        Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); Capehart confirmed that he was a millionaire
                        in 1938 in an interview with William B. Pickett, December 12, 1969, tape 5, transcript p.
                        115–16; Pickett, "Homer E. Capehart," 99.
            
         
         
         
            After Ten Years
            Since assuming the position of editor in the autumn of 1976, I have resisted the temptation to use
                    these pages to communicate directly with readers of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History. Departing from usual practice once in ten years will not be considered excessive, I
                    hope.
            I am convinced that the general policies and contents of the IMH should never change radically from
                    the goals set forth by George S. Cottman, the first editor, and carried down through his successors
                    to my distinguished predecessor, Donald F. Carmony. All of us have tried to hold to the highest
                    standards of scholarship and to produce a magazine that is of general interest to a varied
                    readership. In that endeavor I have benefited especially from the hard work and counsel of several
                    dozen historians who have served as members of the Editorial Advisory Committee, from cooperative
                    authors of articles and book reviews, and from the commitment and talent of Associate Editor Lorna
                    Lutes Sylvester and several graduate student assistants. Only readers of the IMH can judge the
                    degree of success in meeting our goals.
            The passage of a decade seems an appropriate time, therefore, to ask readers for suggestions and
                    advice about the IMH. What should we do differently? What are we doing especially well that we
                    should continue? Ten years is not too soon to worry about editorial senility. I will depend on the
                    response of readers to keep me from this dreaded blue-pencil-wielder's disease as I begin
                    my second decade.
            
                    James H. Madison
                
         
         
         
            
               THE WABASH RIVER AT VINCENNES
               
               Reproduced from Richard S. Simons, The Rivers of Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1985), 3.
            
            
            Book Reviews
            
               The Rivers of Indiana. By Richard S. Simons. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. x, 224. Illustrations, maps, select bibliography.
                    $29.95.)
            Richard S. Simons, vice-president of the Indiana Historical Society and a contributor to the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Star Magazine, knows his Hoosier waterfronts. In this book he covers all
                    thirty of them more than adequately with accounts of life along the rivershores from prehistoric
                    times until present-day concerns with steel and natural gas and corn.
            In the front of the book a map displays Indiana's rivers in their intricate relations to
                    each other. Thereafter the same map is repeated as a preface to each of eleven sections, but with
                    only those rivers on it that are to be immediately discussed. Thus, the reader knows at once where
                    he is and better understands the titles that follow: "Rivers of the Indians,"
                    "Highways of Settlement," and "Wilderness Rivers," for example.
                    Thus, too, lesser known rivers are located, as in the case of the Anderson, which probably only its
                    neighbors and Lincoln buffs can identify.
            Quite properly, the author begins with the 
                        Wabash
                     and gives it its own separate section under the title "The Essence of
                    Indiana." (Quite justly, however, he later allots the same number of pages to the
                        Ohio River as to the 
                        Wabash
                    , although the 
                        Ohio
                     belongs to other states as well as to Indiana and even combined with its Hoosier
                    tributaries before it reaches the 
                        Wabash
                    —the Anderson, the Blue, and the Whitewater—its valley does not
                    cover Indiana so extensively as the Wabash Valley.) In the first dozen pages of
                    Simons's book is a condensed account of the geology, geography, demography, and history of
                    the rich Wabash Valley from its prehistoric origins in a torrent of
                        Lake Erie waters to its current quieter meanderings through three
                    postglacial areas. From the Wabash River's modern source in western 
                        Ohio
                     to its mouth below 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Simons takes readers past the sites of Fort Recovery, 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battlefield, Fort 
                        Vincennes
                    , and old 
                        New Harmony
                     and briefly tells the story of each, with little histories of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, the 
                        Wabash
                     "Cannonball," the world's first electrically lighted streets
                    in the town of 
                        Wabash
                    , the circuses of Peru, and the universities along the way.
            These things he does also with the other rivers of the book. The story of the Eel
                    (north)—there are two Eels—is largely the story of the Little Turtle. The
                    story of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     (of the Maumee)—there are two St. Josephs also, as well as two Blues, the
                    Blue 
                    
                  GEORGE ADE
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana University Press, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     and the Big Blue—is the story of Johnny Appleseed.
                    To the Mississinewa belong the twentieth-century composer Cole Porter and the eighteenth-century
                    captive of the Indians Frances Slocum, alongside other notables of song and story. Of the
                        Fawn River the author seems to be saying that it belongs to Bill Scifres,
                    outdoors editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, who knows good fishing bayous in the Fawn that he has never told his best
                    friends about.
            Because of the planning of the book's format and the beautiful photographs taken by several
                    photographers including the author, credit should be given to Sharon Sklar, the book and jacket
                    designer, and to Jane Rodman, the editor.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                William E. Wilson
         
         
            
               The Best of George Ade. Selected and edited by A. L. Lazarus. Illustrations by
                    John T. McCutcheon. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xxii, 254. Illustrations, notes.
                    $17.50.)
            This edition is the first comprehensive collection of George Ade's work in forty years, and
                    it does a thorough job of displaying Ade's versatility and range. It includes samplings of
                    Ade's famous fables in slang, his short stories and plays, his essays and his verses and
                    songs, and a selection of his letters. This collection displays Ade's sharp consciousness
                    of the centrality of cultural change in late nineteenth-century and early twentieth-century America
                    and the pressures and pretensions that this change called up. In his famous fables, for example, Ade
                    observes the rise of a new moneyed class. He pokes fun at both the culture of consumption and the
                    consumption of "culture" which defined that class of people whose ambition is
                    matched by their awkwardness as they take advantage of their new leisure to travel and to cultivate
                    the arts. The promise of upward mobility fuels even the doomed, pathetic exertions of the working
                    class, as in "The Fable of Sister Mae, Who Did As Well As Could Be Expected"
                    (1899): "She was determined to break into Society if she had to use an Ax" (p. 4).
            In particular, Ade demonstrates the ambiguities of urbanization and urbanism during this transitional
                    period. Stories like "The Alfalfa European Hotel" (1899) and "Effie
                    Whittlesy" (1903) dramatize a 
                        Chicago
                     whose population was increasing exponentially while it remained, at the same time,
                    essentially a large village where the line between rural classlessness and urban class consciousness
                    was tenuously drawn. This 
                        Chicago
                     felt to Ade still very much in process, as he marvelled at 
                        Chicago
                    's new neighborhoods and diversity and at the extraordinary pace of  new building. Ade is at his best, one eyebrow raised, as he reveals the
                    contiguous layers of "culture" that the advent of new institutions like the Art
                    Institute laid on an older 
                        Chicago
                    —"An occasional bell or whistle on the 
                        Illinois
                     Central tracks interrupts for a moment, but the rattle of wheels on 
                        Michigan
                     Avenue seems a long distance away"—while he exposes the pretensions
                    of the new cultural connoisseur who, "As she would doubtless put it …,
                    ‘is going in for art, and it's perfectly lovely’ " (pp.
                    190–91, "In 
                        Chicago
                     But Not of It," 1912).
            Ade's essays on Indiana draw on the same consciousness of change, on the strains of the
                    transition from rural to urban. Ade parodies Hoosier defensiveness at the same time as he
                    demonstrates his own defensive partisanship. Assertions like "the Indiana man respects his
                    state because it has grown to importance and wealth without acquiring a double chin or wearing a
                    wrist watch" (p. 205, "Indiana," 1922) both expose and take pride in
                    provincialism's stubborn resistance. Ade is clearly mocking himself in "The
                    Hoosier Hand Book" (1911) when he mocks a limited, rural Indiana left behind by
                    urbanization: "Far be it from any native Hoosier to jeer at the huckleberry, the ne plus
                    ultra pie-filler of the civilized world" (p. 208). Yet if Ade parodies, in the same essay,
                    the determined boosterism of towns like 
                        Indianapolis
                     struggling to compete with 
                        Chicago
                     ("Population last year, 233,650. Population today and tomorrow,
                    500,000," p. 215), it is equally clear that he also feels something for the human intimacy
                    of the "Home of… The Largest Hearted People in the World" (p. 215) that
                    he does not feel for real urban centers.
            In short, this collection displays a knowing, witty George Ade who both recognized and directly
                    experienced the self-conscious eagerness and the hesitation which cultural change called forth from
                    turn-of-the-century America.
            
               
                  
                            Middlebury
                         College, 
                            Middlebury
                        , Vt. Joanne Jacobson
         
         
            
               Belle Gunness: The Lady Bluebeard. By Janet L. Langlois. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xi, 174. Maps, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    select bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            Extraordinary, sensational, or change-producing events in a community's history often become
                    the subjects of local legendry that transforms history (act) into story (art). The more deeply an
                    event strikes at the roots of a community's identity, structure, and world view, the more
                    complex and tenacious will be the legends that evolve around it, for legends function as commentary
                    on the meaning of events for community members. That is, legends  not only recount what happened they also express people's evaluations of and attitudes
                    toward what happened. As those judgments change with the passage of time, so will legends about the
                    event change in a continual process of reinterpreting the past in light of the present. A case in
                    point is the body of legends surrounding the multiple murders apparently committed by Belle Gunness
                    on her 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana, farm just after the turn of the twentieth century. In this book folklorist
                    Janet L. Langlois undertakes the documentation of the role of the Belle Gunness legend complex as a
                    reflector of the community's view of itself and its past.
            Readers who are simply looking for a retelling of the Belle Gunness story will not find it here.
                    Instead, Langlois focuses on how various aspects of the Gunness legend have been shaped and reshaped
                    by the popular press, local historians, and ordinary citizens at different times over the past
                    seventy-some years. The book, therefore, "becomes more a record of people coping with the
                    Belle Gunness phenomenon through the symbolic medium of folk art [i.e., legend] than a record of the
                    murderess herself (p. 9). In taking this approach Langlois is consistent with her own position that
                    the most significant feature of the legend complex is its ability to reinterpret Belle Gunness and
                    her deeds continually through the years, so that presenting the story as a
                    connected narrative would be to betray the vitality and flexibility of the living oral tradition
                    upon which Langlois relies heavily for her source material. Each of the six chapters in the book
                    deals with how a particular aspect of the legend reflects a corresponding value or structural
                    element in the community's life (e.g., Belle Gunness as an independent woman in a
                    traditionally ordered society).
            In spite of this analytical rather than descriptive scheme of organization, by the end of the book
                    the reader has a pretty good idea of what happened—or what probably happened. The heart
                    of the legend complex—what lends it force and keeps it alive—is the
                    uncertainty, even contradiction, that surrounds every facet of the events in Belle
                    Gunness's life, from the number of people she supposedly killed to her motives for the
                    murders to her very identity as a woman.
            Although Langlois is not always convincing in the connections she draws between the legend complex
                    and the social, economic, and psychosexual tenor of the community, her arguments provoke thought
                    about the intimate, inescapable relationship between history and folklore. Her study not only
                    affords a good model for looking at local history from a folkloristic point of view but it also
                    validates the very real ability of folkloristic research  to
                    contribute to a larger understanding both of the past and of the means by which society tries to
                    comprehend it.
            
               University of Notre Dame, 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind. Barbara Allen
         
         
            
               Skinning Cats: The Wartime Letters of Tom Krueger. Edited by James B. Lane and
                    Stephen G. McShane. (
                        Chicago
                    : Cattails Press, 1985. Pp. 160. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound, $5.95.)
            In July, 1943, shortly after his graduation from Wirt High School in Gary, Indiana, eighteen-year-old
                    C. Thomas Krueger enlisted in the 
                        United States
                     Navy, becoming one of the more than fifteen million men and women to serve in
                    America's armed forces during World War II. Taking his basic training at Camp Peary, 
                        Virginia
                    , Krueger joined the "Seabees," a special division of the navy
                    organized to build military bases in combat areas. Following advanced instruction in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Rhode Island
                    , Krueger was shipped to the Pacific Theater, where he worked on various construction
                    projects in New 
                        Guinea
                     and the Philippines.
            During the twenty-eight months he spent away from home, Krueger wrote nearly two hundred letters to
                    his family describing his transformation into a "Seabee" and his experiences
                    overseas. The young seaman possessed a facile pen and a sense of humor, and his letters were both
                    informative and entertaining. Discovered in 1984 at a demolition site, the Krueger letters were
                    saved from destruction to be published as the first volume in the Calumet Regional Studies Series
                    sponsored by Indiana University Northwest.
            
               Skinning Cats is a fresh and candid look at what it meant to be an American sailor
                    in World War II. Not unexpectedly, Krueger complained a lot about navy food, overbearing officers,
                    and other service hardships. However, his letters also provide rich insights into navy training,
                    midwestern racial and sexual attitudes, and the mechanics of wartime censorship. Though he saw no
                    combat, Krueger was stationed close enough to the front to be menaced by Japanese booby traps,
                    airplanes, and misdirected artillery shells.
            The book's major weaknesses are weak editing and the lack of an index. James B. Lane and
                    Stephen G. McShane contributed a suitable introduction and a handful of helpful notes, but they
                    neglected to explain the service jargon and wartime slang that clutter the letters. The reader born
                    after 1945 might guess that "Frankie Glamour Pants" was Frank Sinatra and
                    "Moose-Face"  was Benito Mussolini, but a
                    glossary is required to reveal the meaning of many other terms.
            These omissions notwithstanding, Skinning Cats is a storehouse containing many
                    historical treasures. It would make a useful reference for those interested in the social history of
                    World War II.
            
               University of Central 
                            Arkansas
                        , Conway Gregory J. W. Urwin
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kentucky
                        's Governors, 1792–1985. Edited by Lowell H. Harrison. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1985. Pp. xxi, 217. Suggested readings, index. $22.00.)
            Lowell H. Harrison should be complimented for editing these fifty-four essays by thirty-two authors
                    who chronicle 
                        Kentucky
                    's history through its chief executives. He provides a sensible preface without
                    grandiose claims, and Thomas D. Clark's introduction establishes a helpful framework for
                    understanding the governors' milieux. This collection is aimed at the general reader, but
                    because the work is done largely by professors, more attention is devoted to analyzing policies than
                    to tracing genealogies. Overall, the venture is a welcome contribution, although one of mixed
                    quality and success.
            Constitutionally limited to one term, 
                        Kentucky
                     governors have four years to create a memorable record. Many have failed at this, and
                    their biographers generally do not inflate their attempts. Some who distinguished themselves were
                    aided by circumstances beyond their control. Isaac 
                        Shelby
                    , for instance, remains notable mainly for being the first governor, William Goebel for
                    his assassination, A. B. "Happy" Chandler for his flamboyance and longevity, and
                    Martha Layne Collins for becoming the first female chief executive. Others, such as George Johnson
                    and Richard Hawes who were Civil War governors of an unofficial Confederate 
                        Kentucky
                    , have virtually disappeared from memory. Also of dubious distinction were William S.
                    Taylor, who fled to Indiana under indictment for complicity in a murder, and James T. Morehead, who
                    "did nothing to hinder education" (p. 39).
            If the essays are read in sequence, several themes emerge. One becomes aware of the political
                    significance of Transylvania University and of the necessity for currying Henry Clay's
                    favor in the nineteenth century. In the twentieth century support of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal and Alben W. Barkley was equally important. Intriguing parallels
                    also emerge. Relief wars during the depression of the 1820s resemble Ruby Laffoon's
                    problems in  the 1930s. Robert P. Letcher's fiddle
                    playing harmonizes with Chandler's singing, and James Garrard's whiskey distillery
                    juxtaposes interestingly with James D. Black's prohibition crusade. Also notable are the
                    large number of related chief executives and the inordinate time consumed by election campaigns.
            Any collection of essays has problems, and this one is no exception. The jarring effect of several
                    prose styles is a minor weakness. More serious is the tunnel vision revealed in some biographies;
                    occasionally governors lack comparative reference to predecessors and successors. One myopic example
                    claims that "little else was going on in the commonwealth" in 1825 beyond a
                    judicial squabble in 
                        Frankfort
                     (p. 27). The book's format requires excessive repetition because many
                    biographies overlap. The four governors who served two separate, divided terms create another
                    unavoidable problem. Both administrations for these men are combined, which is biographically
                    appropriate, but chronologically disruptive.
            Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote that "there is properly no history; only biography," an
                    exaggeration of course. This book is good evidence, nevertheless, of how successfully 
                        Kentucky
                     history comes alive through its governors. Other states should be blessed with a
                    comparable compendium of gubernatorial history.
            
               Indiana University East, 
                            Richmond
                        
                George T. Blakey
         
         
            
               Dictionary of American Regional English. Volume I, Introduction and
                        A–C. Edited by Frederic G. Cassidy. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. clvi, 903. Figures, maps. $60.00.)
            When completed this work will become a landmark in the study of American dialects. From its founding
                    a century ago the American Dialect Society made a dictionary a prime objective. The project took
                    concrete form under Frederic G. Cassidy in the 1960s and with the help of government agencies,
                    foundations, and numerous volunteers is now reaching publication. The work uses source materials
                    assembled by many scholars, but the core of the research consists of interviews conducted with 2,777
                    informants in 1,002 communities nationwide. Ingenious computer-generated maps display the regional
                    variations of specific words. While not as exquisitely detailed as traditional linguistic atlases,
                    the maps add to the basis for understanding American language development. This first volume readily
                    provides proof of its worth as a standard reference for linguists, historians, and students of
                    American folk culture, but the ordinary lay reader  may also
                    find much to enlighten and to divert. The elaborate scholarly apparatus is fairly easily penetrated
                    with the aid of the lengthy introduction, which discusses the problems, sources, and methods of
                    dialect study.
            "American Regional English" is perhaps too limiting a description. There are
                    general Americanisms here, and words that derive from class, ethnic, and occupational origins. The
                    reader quickly becomes aware that the nation's language expresses its history as well as
                    its geography. For example, American Marines earlier in this century returned from the Philippines
                    speaking of the boondocks (backcountry areas). Later, other 
                        United States
                     soldiers would return from 
                        Korea
                     with the expression bug out (to retreat in haste). Other historical
                    origins are less clear, and the reader is left to ponder them. Why should people in the upper
                    Midwest call a jelly-filled sweet roll a Bismarck (and what would the Iron
                    Chancellor think)? Why should a hapless beetle be dubbed in different regions box elder
                        bug, Canadian soldier, democrat bug, McKinley bug, and Populist bug!
            
            The word-maps certainly confirm Indiana's place as a crossroads of dialect (and culture)
                    streams. Here babies may comfortably ride in either an eastern carriage or a
                    western buggy. Indiana farmers of northern background may go out at chore time and husk corn before calling "so-boss" to get the cows in; their southern neighbors will shuck their corn at feeding time and call "sook-cow."
            
            Entries include quotations illustrating the historical use of words. Rustic backwoods southerners
                    have been called crackers at least since 1766. Southern backwoodsmen who arrived
                    in the Ohio Valley as early as 1823 found themselves called buckeyes. As for the latest word on hoosiers, one must await (and
                    eagerly) forthcoming volumes of this set.
            
               Villanova University, Villanova, Pa. James M. Bergquist
         
         
            
               Anthony 
                            Wayne
                        : Soldier of the Early Republic. By Paul David Nelson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. x, 368. Illustrations, maps, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            Anthony Wayne was a capable if second-rank American general who won fame as the victor at the battles
                    of Stony Point (1779) and Fallen Timbers (1794). 
                        Wayne
                    's historical reputation, however, has long been dogged by the nickname of
                    "Mad Anthony" given him by Continental soldiers in 1781. Paul David
                    Nelson's major goal in this solid biography is to correct the  impression that Wayne was impetuous. The general, he shows in a
                    detailed review of 
                        Wayne
                    's long military career, was "a prudent and careful officer"
                    (p. 2) who never wavered in his belief in the subordination of military to civilian authority.
                    Clearly the best evidence for Nelson's argument can be found in 
                        Wayne
                    's successful campaign against the Indians in the Northwest Territory in 1794.
                    According to Nelson, "shrewd caution was … the hallmark of [
                        Wayne
                    's] methodical assault on America's enemies north of the
                        Ohio River" (p. 245).
            Despite his impressive research and his effective demonstration of 
                        Wayne
                    's respect for organization and planning, Nelson does not succeed in removing
                    the onus placed on the general by his nickname. Wayne was not crazy, but his behavior was often
                    rash. Throughout his life he was a man of strong opinions and passionate language. He treated both
                    his mother and his wife abominably and virtually ignored his children. He plunged into imprudent
                    economic enterprises, such as his efforts to cultivate rice on a 
                        Georgia
                     plantation in the 1780s. He craved public adulation and preferred the excitement of
                    military life and 
                        Philadelphia
                     social circles to the world of his family. Easily offended, he held grudges for years
                    and never seemed to develop any perspective on himself. If something went wrong, he always found
                    someone else to blame. In short, while Wayne was a brave man and a competent general, he was also
                    arrogant, insecure, intolerant, and immature.
            Nelson describes 
                        Wayne
                    's life well; his narrative is surefooted and sympathetic. But his biography
                    would have been more successful if he had not been so eager to rescue 
                        Wayne
                     from the myth of his nickname and if he had placed the general more fully and
                    profoundly in the context of the larger tensions of life in a revolutionary republic. Perhaps 
                        Wayne
                    's passion for discipline, his Federalist political principles, his love of
                    uniforms and other displays of status were more than personal quirks. Perhaps they were the marks of
                    a man who, like many of his fellow officers, was struggling to find the keys to fame and fortune in
                    a world that he had helped to turn upside down.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Ind. Andrew R. L. Cayton
         
         
            
               "Let the Eagle Soar!" The Foreign Policy of Andrew Jackson. By
                    John M. Belohlavek. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1985. Pp. x, 328. Maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $28.95.)
            In the total sweep of American diplomatic history, the foreign policy of Andrew Jackson assumes only
                    minor proportions.  Commercial agreements with Muscat, or even
                    with Great Britain, and settlements of damage claims with Naples, or more importantly with 
                        France
                    , can scarcely be termed diplomatic landmarks. Yet, even if Old Hickory's
                    historical significance remains firmly rooted in his battles with the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     rather than with Malayan pirates, he did indeed have a foreign policy. In this
                    well-written account John M. Belohlavek argues that Jackson's "symbiotic"
                    blend of national honor and commercial ambition (p. 252) was essentially a continuation of John
                    Quincy Adams's international objectives. Unlike his predecessor and rival, however, Jackson
                    got results. Through a combination of brashness and tact Jackson successfully concluded a number of
                    treaties and agreements that greatly expanded 
                        United States
                     commerce.
            Jackson's diplomacy was at its best in the settlement of damage claims against 
                        France
                     arising out of the Napoleonic wars. Although the French foreign office agreed in 1831,
                    after many years of discussions, to compensate American losses, the French Chamber of Deputies
                    refused to appropriate the funds. Pursuing a firm but temperate course, Old Hickory kept pressure on
                    the legislators in 
                        Paris
                    , as he had often done with the American Congress. His famous temper erupted only once
                    with the French. In 1834 he threatened economic sanctions and the seizure of French property if the
                    Chamber continued to block the settlement, and soon afterward the French deputies yielded. His angry
                    warning coincided with his rage over senatorial censure for his removal of federal deposits from the
                    Bank of the 
                        United States
                    . It is, in fact, this interweave of the domestic turbulence of Jacksonian politics with
                    the diplomatic chronicle that is the most notable strengh of Belohlavek's book.
            The author encounters a few problems in attempting to impart long-term significance to
                    Jackson's diplomacy. To label Edmund Roberts's missions to Asia in the 1830s a
                    "keystone in … a bridge" to the Far East is a bit exaggerated (p. 177).
                    Similarly, it is an unwarranted assertion of 
                        United States
                     influence to declare that the 
                        United States
                     "allowed" the Latin American nations to drift toward oligarchy (p.
                    212). On the other hand, Belohlavek documents well Jackson's caution during the 
                        Texas
                     Revolution and refutes effectively the contention of some historians that Old Hickory
                    conspired with the Texans against Mexico.
            
               "Let the Eagle Soar!" is a fine, scholarly treatment of a
                    neglected subject. It contains a wealth of insights and information gathered from archival sources
                    and is a welcome addition to the literature on nineteenth-century diplomatic history.
            
               University of 
                     Indianapolis,
                                Indianapolis
                  
                David L.
                Anderson
         
         
         
            
               The Union Cavalry in the Civil War. Volume III, The War in the
                        West, 1861–1865. By Stephen Z. Starr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1985. Pp. xv, 616. Illustrations, maps, notes, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $32.50.)
            The Union cavalry actions in the West were an important and interesting phase of the Civil War.
                    Although the subject has been largely neglected by historians until now, Stephen Z. Starr's
                    third volume about the Union cavalry corrects this deficiency very well. In his book the author
                    covers the war in the broad geographic area from the Appalachian Mountains to 
                        Kansas
                     and from the Ohio River to the Gulf of Mexico, often with the
                    cavalries of several armies campaigning simultaneously. He makes the transitions between the actions
                    in the different theaters of war without interrupting the flow of his story.
            Shortages of firearms and horses are themes that run throughout Starr's book from the start
                    of the war to the finish, and these shortages were responsible for the often poor performance of the
                    Union cavalry. Although by the end of the war many of the veteran regiments were armed with 
                        Spencer
                     repeating carbines, probably the best firearm developed during the war, many others
                    still used a variety of antiquated weapons. Obtaining and maintaining enough horses also was a major
                    problem that was never resolved, and a high percentage of the troopers in the West were always
                    dismounted. Attrition was high. For example, the author tells of one regiment that captured 288
                    horses during the March to the Sea, abandoned 441 mounts, and finished the campaign with 153
                    dismounted men (p. 574).
            This volume provides an excellent overview of the strategy of the different armies and the role of
                    the cavalry in the various campaigns. The arena was much broader than that in which the eastern
                    cavalry operated, as told in Starr's earlier volumes, resulting in a more wide-ranging war.
                    Here many cavalry units that shoved off from 
                        Louisville
                     and Cairo in 1861 and 1862 finished their war in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     in 1865. Probably because of this broad scope, the book contains little human interest
                    detail about the men in the ranks. Starr's notes and bibliography, however, direct the
                    reader to sources where more detailed information can be found. The maps provided are very helpful
                    for following the different campaigns and actions. The illustrations are mostly pictures of the
                    leaders of the western cavalry.
            Most Indiana mounted troops (there were mounted infantry and field artillery units in addition to
                    cavalry) served in the western armies, and many of the regiments are mentioned in  this book. Thus, this volume is a valuable reference for Indiana
                    historians and also for buffs seeking more knowledge about a part of the war that has not been told
                    before in a single work.
            
               
                  
                            Columbus
                        , Ind. John W. Rowell
         
         
            
               Women and Indians on the Frontier, 1825–1915. By Glenda Riley.
                    (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xvi, 336. Illustrations, notes, note on sources, index. Clothbound,
                    $24.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            In her study of the relationship between women and Indians on the frontier, Glenda Riley propounds a
                    thesis in two parts. First, white women who traveled to the American West during its frontier years
                    carried with them the perceptual cultural baggage both of women as the weaker, gentler, and nuturing
                    sex and of the American Indian as generally dirty and evil, bent in the case of males on kidnap and
                    rape, and a major source of danger to those who would venture into the country inhabited by these
                    savages. Second, in their western experiences many of these women discovered that their (and
                    others') perceptions did not very well fit either themselves or the Indians with whom they
                    had contact.
            European and white American images of women in the mid-1800s are well known now in general terms, and
                    Riley draws on a variety of sources to demonstrate that they were familiar to much of American
                    society then as well. Recent scholarship has provided a great deal of published firsthand
                    information on women's western experiences—information that is used here, with
                    unpublished sources, to document the change in outlook that is the heart of the book's
                    thesis.
            Riley provides much of interest in her narrative. She demonstrates the tremendous ethnocentrism of
                    both men and women about such matters as food, language, dress, and hygiene, and she notes in some
                    detail the differences in subject matter that men and women wrote about in describing their
                    experiences. She notes, too, that the white view of Indian women in particular was often only a
                    minor modification of society's view of white women: a view that completely missed the
                    status of women in many Indian communities.
            The book has problems, however, that make it far less significant that it could have been. Most
                    frustrating is the author's failure to develop particular strands of place or experience.
                    Riley has rarely identified the women on whose experience she draws by where they were, when, and
                    why. (One woman identified only by name, Alice Fletcher, was an anthropologist who served as  an allotting agent for the federal government.) It may be that
                    there was little difference among the experiences of women on the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail in the 1850s, army wives in the Southwest of the 1880s, settlers on the prairies
                    in the 1890s and early 1900s. It may be that face-to-face contact with Indians did not vary
                    significantly from tribe to tribe. And it may be that the white cultural perception of
                    "women's role" did not change significantly between the 1790s and 1900.
                    The reader is given no way of judging whether those factors made a difference.
            There are organizational problems as well. Not until the second half of the book does the reader
                    learn about face-to-face experiences that changed (or did not change) white women's
                    perceptions. Within that half are sections on other "minority" groups, too:
                    Panamanians met by those who crossed the isthmus, Mormons in Salt Lake Valley.
                    These digressions interrupt the reader's attempt to piece together Riley's data,
                    as does repetition from chapter to chapter of both topics and particular references. In the middle
                    of the book the author notes the number and range of the original sources she has
                    used—information that would have been much more useful if it had been in the
                    introduction.
            A book that is potentially of great interest to those who would study women's western
                    experience and Indian-white relationships is thus flawed by its patchwork quality. Greater attention
                    to the whole, by both author and editor, could have produced a much better work.
            
               
                  
                            Idaho
                         State Historical Society, Boise Judith Austin
         
         
            
               Agricultural Science and the Quest for Legitimacy: Farmers, Agricultural Colleges,
                        and Experiment Stations, 1870–1890. By Alan I Marcus. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1985. Pp. x, 269. Notes, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $22.50.)
            In 1887 the Hatch Act created the agricultural experiment station system. Since that time scientists
                    at the state experiment stations have been engaged in basic and applied research. They have
                    discovered new knowledge, and they have helped farmers use it to solve a host of agricultural
                    problems. As a result, farmers are more productive and efficient than ever before. The creation of
                    the experiment stations, however, was a difficult and hard-won achievement. Although farmers wanted
                    to improve their vocations, they were not united about how to do so. During the 1870s and early
                    1880s farmers and scientists debated whether agricultural research should be pure or applied,
                    whether it should be conducted in the field or laboratory, and 
                    whether it should be the domain of professionals or laymen. Moreover, they disagreed about which
                    bodies should control agricultural experiment stations—the federal or state governments,
                    farm organizations, or state agricultural colleges.
            Between the creation of the 
                        Connecticut
                     agricultural experiment station in 1875 and the development of 
                        New York
                    's station five years later, the prevailing concept of agricultural
                    experimentation fundamentally changed. Instead of supporting research institutions that were little
                    more than state chemistry shops involved with the testing of commercial fertilizers, advocates of
                    experiment stations began to champion the benefits of both pure and applied research. During the
                    1880s they also increased public support for the creation of a nationwide, federally endowed,
                    college-based agricultural experiment-station system. As early as 1882 Seaman A. Knapp, professor of
                    agriculture at 
                        Iowa
                     Agricultural College, drafted a bill to create those experiment stations. Although
                    Congress did not pass Knapp's bill, it did incorporate the essential research features of
                    his plan into the Hatch Act six years later.
            Alan I Marcus, associate professor of history at 
                        Iowa
                     State University, has written an important book about the development of experiment
                    stations that preceded the Hatch Act. Marcus analyzes the long and often bitter struggle between
                    farmers and scientists for the creation and control of agricultural experiment stations. He proves
                    that the research laboratory was not always central to agricultural experimentation, that
                    agricultural chemistry and agricultural science are not synonymous, and that the college-based,
                    agricultural experiment stations were founded as much on philosophy as on scientific and economic
                    need. This is a perceptive, well-reasoned, and thoroughly researched study of a complex problem that
                    involved the agricultural, political, scientific, and academic communities. Anyone interested in
                    agricultural history will find this book illuminating and useful. It is a solid contribution to the
                    field.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society, 
                            Columbus
                        
                R. Douglas Hurt
         
         
            
               Coxey's Army: An American Odyssey. By Carlos A. Schwantes. (Lincoln:
                    University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 321. Illustrations, notes, index. $22.95.)
            A reviewer might approach Carlos A. Schwantes's book with a bit of scepticism. What could
                    Schwantes say about Coxey's Army that Donald McMurry had not already said in his 1929 Coxey's Army: A Study of the Industrial Army Movement of 1894?
            
            
            Schwantes's tone, contents, and general approach do indeed turn out to be quite similar to
                    McMurry's, but Schwantes has gone beyond McMurry in three ways. First, he has thoroughly
                    mined a wider range of newspapers than McMurry did and as a result is able to provide a more
                    detailed narrative, especially of the western armies. Scholars seeking a quick reference on any
                    phase of the movement are likely to turn to Schwantes rather than to McMurry in the future. Second,
                    Schwantes has stressed the public relations aspect of the movement. Coxey's army, he
                    argues, was one of the first media events: staged in large part to attract journalistic publicity,
                    shaped by the need to provide reporters with interesting copy, dependent on their attention. While
                    McMurry was also aware of this, Schwantes approaches the question more systematically and thus
                    places the events into a larger context in the history of popular culture as well as labor and
                    social history. Third, Schwantes has recognized a good story. His accounts of the western armies
                    read at times like an adventure yarn.
            Specialists in labor and social history will find nothing particularly new here—no
                    startling discoveries or dazzling theoretical insights. But specialists and general readers alike
                    will find a carefully documented and lively book.
            
               University of 
                     Pittsburgh,
                                Pittsburgh
                  , Pa. Richard
                    Oestreicher
         
         
            
               Changing Patterns in American Federal–State Relations during the
                        1950's, the 1960's, and the 1970's. Edited by Lawrence E.
                    Gelfand and Robert J. Neymeyer. (
                        Iowa City
                    : Center for the Study of the Recent History of the 
                        United States
                    , in cooperation with the 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Department, the Herbert Hoover Presidential Library, and the
                    University of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1985. Pp. x, 82. Notes, tables, figures. Paperbound, $9.95.)
            This book contains the observations of three prominent political scientists (Diel R. Wright, Michael
                    G. Reagan, and Martha Derthick) whose scholarship in the field of federalism and intergovernmental
                    relations has attracted widespread attention. Included also are the expressions on this subject of
                    three former state governors (Warren E. Hearnes of 
                        Missouri
                    , Robert D. Ray of 
                        Iowa
                    , and Milton J. Shapp of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) as made at a conference held October 27, 1985, at the University of 
                        Iowa
                    's Center for the Study of the Recent History of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The topic for discussion at the conference, as indicated by the title of the book, was an analysis of
                    the current state and  direction of federalism and
                    intergovernmental relations in this era of racial integration, equal rights for women, abortion,
                    grants-in-aid, environmental concerns, a national speed limit, and prayers in public schools, to
                    name only a few areas of controversy. Wright comments: "In recent decades, economic and
                    political complexity have combined with rapid rates of social and technological change to reduce the
                    capacity of the courts and legislatures to deal with continuous pressures for policy change. This
                    has put greater pressure on and allowed greater latitude to administrators in formulating and
                    executing public policy" (p.). The three governors, in an interesting joint discussion,
                    describe their experiences in wrestling with the problems created by the new mutual dependencies
                    among all the levels of government.
            This book is a collection of thoughtful observations on how well the governmental structure in the
                    United State is accomplishing the job of accommodating society to rapid and significant change.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. Matthew E. Welsh
         
         
            
               Lewis B. Hershey, Mr. Selective Service. By George Q. Flynn. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xv, 386. Illustrations, notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $24.95.)
            The young antiwar demonstrators who filled the ranks of the counterculture in the 1960s found in
                    Lewis B. Hershey a bête noire to symbolize everything they most detested. Lifelong
                    military man (with sixty-two years of active military duty when he retired), director of the
                    Selective Service for three decades, conservative Republican devoted to his family, his country, and
                    the traditional, time-tested virtues, Hershey held a political philosophy best summarized in his
                    favorite quotation from Stephen 
                        Decatur
                    : "Our country, right or wrong."
            Though he became so intensely hated by student protestors in the 1960s that he required FBI
                    protection for public appearances, General Hershey never really quite was the stereotypical military
                    tyrant. "Expecting a ramrod martinet with a chest full of ribbons," George Q.
                    Flynn writes in this sympathetic biography, "the students instead saw a gray-haired,
                    generally disheveled grandfather in civilian clothes who sounded like a Chautauqua
                    comedian" (p. 241). Indeed, Hershey's incontrovertible faith in decentralization
                    probably made him more Jeffersonian than any of his critics might suspect.
            Following Hershey from his early days at Tri-State College in 
                        Angola
                     through his military career, which began in the Indiana 
                    
                  LEWIS B. HERSHEY (THIRD FROM LEFT) AS A BASKETBALL PLAYER AT TRI-STATE COLLEGE, ANGOLA,
                                INDIANA, 1913
                  Courtesy George Q. Flynn and the Hershey Family.
                National Guard in 1911 and did not end until his forced retirement in 1973, Flynn,
                    professor of history at 
                        Texas
                     Tech University in Lubbock, not only illuminates Hershey's life but also gives
                    an excellent history of American military policy from World War II to 
                        Vietnam
                    : Hershey headed the draft under six presidents—from Franklin D. Roosevelt in
                    1941 to Richard Nixon—and the book is as much a careful study of national defense and the
                    bureaucratic problems of manpower mobilization as it is a biography of the general.
            Obviously an exhaustive researcher, Flynn allows the record to speak for itself, distancing himself
                    from the controversy that often surrounded Hershey's life after the draft protests of the
                    1960s. Though objectivity is supposed to be the historian's virtue, one does long for Flynn
                    to jump into the fray occasionally and use stronger language to describe what were many times
                    symbolically bitter confrontations. This is only a minor criticism, however, of what is a first-rate
                    biography and an excellent  scholarly history of American
                    military policy during a critical thirty-year period.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind. Louis Cantor
         
         
            
               Oral Roberts: An American Life. By David Edwin Harrell, Jr. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xiv, 622, Illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    notes, index. $29.95.)
            In this path-breaking biography of America's foremost Pentecostal evangelist, David Edwin
                    Harrell, respected historian of southern religion at the University of 
                        Alabama
                    , Birmingham, begins by examining the social context of rural, small-town 
                        Oklahoma
                     where experiential religion was a way of life. Born in 1918, Oral Roberts was a product
                    of this environment. Embarking upon a preaching career in the mid-1940s, he clawed his way to the
                    top of the heap of independent Pentecostal evangelists by means of itinerant healing crusades that
                    made him a national figure. Around 1960 he sensed that healing had just about run its course and
                    jumped on a new bandwagon, the charismatic renewal that was starting to sweep through mainline
                    Protestant and Catholic churches alike. He folded up the big tent and turned to television, replaced
                    miracle-working with soul-saving and the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and through a simple, positive,
                    inclusive message gained a worldwide ecumenical following. With this came money, power, and acclaim;
                    the 
                        Oklahoma
                     farm boy had made good.
            Roberts was fascinated by wealth and its symbols, as could be seen in the succession of homes he
                    acquired; the futuristic buildings of Oral Roberts University, which he created to
                    "perpetuate" his ministry; and the grandiose City of Faith medical center, a
                    monument to human ego rivaled only by the Pyramids. The friendship of Billy Graham, his junior by
                    nine months, enabled him to enter the mainstream of American evangelicalism, and in 1968 he
                    transferred his membership and ordination from the Pentecostal Holiness church of his youth to the
                    United Methodist church. At the same time, Roberts became accepted by the community in Tulsa, where
                    his operation was centered, because of the vast amount of money it brought into the local economy,
                    the clean-cut youth that populated the ORU campus, and Roberts's own political and economic
                    conservatism.
            Although accepting neither Roberts's theology nor his claim of miracle-working power,
                    Harrell endeavors to portray the  evangelist fairly and
                    open-mindedly. He describes the Oklahoman as "an ultimate romantic, a prophet of the
                    intuitive," one who speaks out of a "tradition of Christian mysticism and
                    pentecostal ecstasy" (p. 484). For many lower middle-class Christians who had been reared
                    in conservative churches but felt alienated from them, Roberts provided a church home of sorts. An
                    experiential theology almost devoid of content gave his ministry a wide appeal, while the
                    Pentecostal background with its vision of equal rights for blacks meant his crusades were integrated
                    from the very beginning. At the same time, Roberts was a very human person, one who ruled his own
                    home and organization with an iron hand and who alternated between violent displays of temper,
                    moodiness, and frenetic outbursts of energy.
            The research in the book is indeed prodigious, and one gains the impression after reading the 107
                    pages of notes that Harrell has left no stone unturned. He received excellent cooperation from the
                    ORU archives and interviewed some fifty people who were associated with the ministry or knew the
                    evangelist personally, including Oral and Evelyn Roberts themselves. However, he does not pay
                    sufficient attention to Roberts's critics or to the virtually totalitarian atmosphere that
                    prevails in the Roberts organization, and in Harrell's quest for objectivity he ends up
                    being a little too easy on the evangelist. Given the shaky condition of the operation, which is
                    being bled financially by the escalating costs of the underutilized City of Faith facilities and
                    undercut economically by the new generation of political television evangelists, one wonders how
                    long it will last. The aging Roberts will soon pass from the scene, and few believe his son Richard
                    can hold the organization together or build a new one around himself. In spite of its strengths, and
                    they are many, this book may have been written a little too soon. Still, it makes good reading and
                    it provides the kind of insights into the Oral Roberts enterprise that cannot be found anywhere
                    else.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                Richard V. Pierard
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Stone Country. By Scott R. Sanders; photographs by Jeffrey A. Wolin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 256. Illustrations. $24.95.) Stone Country is testimony to the happy result from the combination of a good
                    writer and a good subject, with the added dash of a good photographer. The subject is limestone and
                    the people who quarry, cut, and carve it in southern Indiana. Scott R. Sanders has the
                    writer's eye and ear for the telling detail and the brief quotation that bring life to the
                    printed page. Wandering through the stone belt, he has observed and listened as a special kind of
                    people interact with this special kind of building material. The resulting text is not a detailed
                    historical analysis and not meant to replace Joseph Batchelor's An Economic
                        History of the Indiana Oolitic Limestone Industry (1944). Rather, it is a book that lays
                    out the major features of the subject skillfully and interestingly and brings flashes of insight and
                    understanding to this traditional industry. The photographs by Jeffrey A. Wolin add nicely to the
                    written word. Many readers will want to see firsthand the natural and human features of
                    Indiana's stone country. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        . By Maurice Thompson. Introduction by Mary E. Gaither. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xiv, 419. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $15.00; paperbound, $8.95.) Penrod. By Booth Tarkington.
                    Introduction by Scott R. Sanders. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xiv, 306. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $15.00; paperbound, $7.95.) These two additions to Indiana University
                    Press's Library of Indiana Classics illustrate the diversity of Hoosier literary
                    achievement and of popular taste in the 
                        United States
                     around the turn of the twentieth century. First published in 1900, Alice
                        of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                is often considered the prototype of the modern historical romance. Its
                    central historical episode is George Rogers Clark's daring march across 
                        Illinois
                     in February, 1779, to recapture the English-held fort at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. Its cast of characters includes Clark, the noble conqueror; Long Hair, the
                    treacherous Indian; the courageous old scout, Oncle Jazon; and the heroine, beautiful, outspoken
                    Alice Roussillon, who with Lieutenant Fitzhugh Beverley provides the romance. Characteristic of many
                    late nineteenth-century novels, the tale is told leisurely; the language is flowery; and the story
                    is almost too sweetly sentimental. The action, however, is fast-paced, the  characters memorable, and the description graphic. Almost completely
                    antithetical in literary style is Booth Tarkington's Penrod, published in
                    1914. Here the chief protagonist is an ordinary, daydreamy, twelve-year-old boy who is growing up in
                    a mid-western city during the early twentieth century. His antagonists are boredom and adults; his
                    trials school pageants and dance classes; his delights his long-suffering dog, Duke, and the gory
                    adventure stories that he writes in his secret hideaway. Penrod's escapades, which include
                    fistfights, carnivals, birthday celebrations, school punishments, even puppy love, are prosaic and
                    somewhat dated. Most readers of whatever age, however, will recognize the state of mind and feeling
                    that such episodes evoke. Alice Roussillon Beverley and Penrod Schofield deserve to be rediscovered,
                    not only because of the historical value of the novels in which they appear but also because they
                    are fascinating people. Modern readers may be surprised to find that, once begun, these books are
                    hard to put down. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Calumet Region: A Master Bibliography. Compiled by Lance Trusty. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: The Regional Studies Institute, Purdue University Calumet, 1985. Pp. 121.
                    Paperbound, $3.00.) All students of Indiana's Calumet Region will be most
                    grateful for this detailed compilation of sources. The bibliography begins with a description of the
                    local holdings of Calumet area libraries and archives. It then lists published and unpublished works
                    about the Region, arranged by place and by subject. Lance Trusty has cast his net widely, including
                    works on subjects such as water use, law enforcement, and parks, as well as education, religion, and
                    ethnicity. Here is the place to begin for anyone interested in Indiana's always fascinating
                    Calumet Region. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Directory of Public Records in 
                     Clay, Greene
                  , Lawrence, 
                            Monroe
                        , Owen, Parke, 
                            Putnam
                        , Sullivan, 
                            Vermillion
                        , Vigo Counties, Indiana. Edited by Sara Laughlin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Stone Hills Area Library Services Authority, n.d. Pp. 99. Index. Paperbound,
                    $5.00, from Stone Hills ALSA, 911 E. 2nd Street, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.) Many individuals and institutions cooperated to produce this very
                    useful directory to location, services, and holdings of agencies with public records in these ten
                    Indiana counties. Included are listings from public libraries, museums, historical societies, and
                    city and county governmental agencies. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               A Bibliography of American County Histories. Compiled by P. William Filby. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Genealogical Publishing Co., Inc., 1985. Pp. xiv, 449. $24.95.) Users of
                    this book should consider it to be only an introduction to what is available in the way of county
                    histories. Since Filby states very generally the kinds of works he has not listed, he has excluded
                    some sources for no apparent reason. In addition, he has listed sources inconsistently; for example,
                    the WPA indexes for Indiana are listed for only two counties. While Filby has achieved his goal of
                    improving upon Clarence S. Peterson's Consolidated Bibliography of County
                        Histories in Fifty States (1961), he has still not produced the definitive bibliography of
                    American county histories. Leigh Darbee, Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               Archives and History: Minutes and Reports of the 17th Conference on Archives and
                        History. Edited by Aug. R. Suelflow. (
                        St. Louis
                    : Department of Archives and History, Concordia Historical Institute, The Lutheran Church—
                        Missouri
                     Synod, 1983. Pp. 203. Notes, illustration, bibliography, charts, appendix.
                    $8.00, plus $1.75 postage.) For one who is doing either genealogical or
                    biographical research, church records provide excellent information. Membership rosters, support
                    pledges, and other records can tell much about an individual or group. The Concordia Historical
                    Institute's seventeenth volume in its Archives and History series
                    contains papers which discuss some trends in church archives collection development, describe
                    various historical collections, provide insightful techniques for archival research, and include the
                    reports and minutes of the Institute's 17th Conference on Archives and History. This book
                    provides a valuable guide for those persons interested in working with church records. David S. Simmons, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Lincoln Finds a General: A Military Study of the Civil War. Volume I. By Kenneth P.
                    Williams. (
                        New York
                    : Macmillan Company, 1949; reprint, 
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xvii, 443. Illustrations, maps, notes. Clothbound,
                    $27.50; paperbound, $10.95.) Indiana University Press commendably plans to
                    reissue all five volumes of Kenneth P. Williams's monumental Lincoln Finds a
                        General. Volume I, now available, covers the period of the Civil War from Fort Sumter
                    through Second Bull Run and the initial phase of 
                        Antietam
                    . An Indiana University professor of mathematics, Williams was also  an experienced military officer, schooled in science and tactics, and
                    an ordnance expert. His military study of the Civil War reflects his background. Although presented
                    clearly and analytically, the infinity of facts and exhaustive detail that Williams marshals to
                    present his case may deter the casual reader. The author does not, however, write like the
                    stereotypical scientist. Williams's zest for his subject and his almost dramatic sense of
                    time and place will captivate anyone seriously interested in the military history of the Civil War.
                        Lincoln Finds a General is not dated nor has it been superseded; in fact, in
                    the words of one contemporary reviewer, the work comes "very near being the final
                    reckoning" (J. Merle Coulter, Indiana Magazine of History, XLVI, 83). It
                    is good that it will be available once again (although one wishes that volume II, which contains the
                    index for both initial volumes, could have been reprinted at the same time as volume I). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            Correction: The photograph of the Gary school administrators and teachers on page 180 of the June,
                    1986, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History was inadvertently reversed. Please
                    note that, as the picture is printed, Dana Whitmer appears on the far left.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
