
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 035, Issue 2, pages 127-234. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:035+issue:2+year:1939&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            James Whitcomb Riley in 1876
            ROBERT PRICE
            
            Biographers of James Whitcomb Riley usually note with considerable emphasis that Riley's
                    life and poetry were greatly influenced by the encouragement and example of Henry Wadsworth
                    Longfellow. As for the poetry, now that almost a quarter century since Riley's death (July
                    22, 1916) makes possible a fairer perspective, there seems to be a tendency among critics to feel
                    that Riley's allegiance to Longfellow is to be listed more to Longfellow's than to
                    Riley's credit. Certainly, very few of the carefully metered, gently conventionalized, and
                    usually rather florid, quatrains and sonnets which Riley practiced and polished after the Longfellow
                    manner seem to have much continuing interest today. This holds for the popular reader, whom Riley
                    once held in thrall, as well as for the more objectively minded literary student. In striking
                    contrast, however, another line of Riley's writing consisting largely of folk material in
                    an entirely different genre—which Riley himself probably never
                    considered a very serious literary accomplishment and which he professedly practiced merely as a
                    means to gain an economic end—is coming to be considered his most original and enduring
                    verse.
            Both of these literary tendencies—the loyalty to Longfellow and the recognition of color
                    in native Hoosier life—were working side by side in the writing and other interests of
                    the young, unrecognized Riley of 1876. One can judge this from the glimpses of him which have been
                    preserved in the memories of Mrs. Cornelia Loder Wood of 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana. Mrs. Wood is the only person living today who was a member of the Riley
                    household in 
                        Greenfield
                     during that crucial period just before the poet succeeded in attracting to his  writing a satisfactory public support. Miss Cornelia Loder
                    (later Mrs. Wood) was teaching school in 
                        Greenfield
                     during the fall and winter of 1876–1877 and living in the Riley home. Her
                    recollections of Jim Riley and of the other members of the family circle at the time, and the
                    several Riley family contributions to her autograph album, are printed here for the first time.1
            
            Jim Riley was then twenty-seven, his birth date being October 7, 1849. It was just at a time, when,
                    having sampled a variety of occupations ranging all the way from sign painting to reading law, he
                    had acquired a reputation for not being very successful at anything in particular. Everybody knew of
                    his knack for versifying and reciting, but few beyond a number of intimately appreciative friends
                    took these abilities seriously. True, he had already seen his verses printed in the 
                        Greenfield
                    
                    Commercial and News, in the Danbury (
                        Connecticut
                    ) News, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Mirror, People, and Saturday Herald, and in the magazine, Hearth and Home. He had also made a rather discouraging debut as a professional
                    reciter. Neither occupation, however, had given promise of a way to a livelihood, and, in 
                        Greenfield
                    , the ability to make a living was an important criterion for judging success,
                    especially when the person weighed in the balance had reached his late twenties. Jim Riley had
                    reason for his discouragement.
            In the fall of 1876, however, Riley sent a small sheaf of his poems to Longfellow asking for
                    criticism and suggestions, among them, "Destiny"2,
                    "If I Knew What Poets Know"3 and "The Iron
                        Horse."4 Longfellow's reply, dated at 
                        Cambridge
                     on November 30, arrived in 
                        Greenfield
                     on December 5.5 Riley was delighted, we know, from a firsthand
                    report by Mrs. Wood: "He came into the hall waving a letter to Elva, his sister, and
                    saying, 'Some day you will be proud to be called the sister of the Hoosier Poet.'
                    Then he gave the letter to me to read."6
            
            
               
                  1 The writer has in his possession a photostatic reproduction of the
                        Cornelia Loder autograph dhum. Mrs. Wood also recorded her recollections of. her stay with the
                        Riley family in 1876 for the writer several years sgo. The wife of the writer is a niece of Mrs.
                        Wood.
               
                  2 Published in A Child World (1896) under the title
                        "The Dreamer." The poem had already been printed in the magazine, Hearth and Home.
               
               
                  3
                        Afterwhiles (1887).
               
                  4
                        Green Fields and Running Brooks (1892).
               
                  5 Quoted by Riley in a letter to Benjamin S. Parker, December 5, 1876. Letters of James Whitcomb Rilsy, edited by William Lyon Phelps (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917), 12–14.
               
                  6 This and other quotations from Mrs. Cornelia Loder Wood are from an
                        unpublished letter to the writer of February 3, 1936.
            
            
            Longfellow had taken the pains to criticize one of the poems, "Destiny", pointing
                    out Riley's inexact use of the word, prone. The word means "face
                    downward", Longfellow explained, and Riley should have used "supine". But
                    more important still, Longfellow had written that Riley's work showed "true poetic
                    faculty and insight." After that letter, for various reasons, partly psychological, it
                    seemed, Jim Riley's fortunes began to shift rapidly toward the better.
            In the meantime, it was Cornelia Loder's copy of Longfellow's poems which Jim Riley
                    had been thumbing through day after day. She describes the popularity of the book in this way:
                        
                        Elva and I were fond of Longfellow's poems and used to spend much of our spare time
                            reading, reciting, and singing some of them. Whether our interest in Longfellow aroused a
                            fresh interest in James Whitcomb or not, I do not know, but I believe it did. He came to me
                            and asked me to loan him my volume of Longfellow's poems. He took it to his
                            father's office where he and John Skinner, a friend of his, must have studied every
                            line and verse in it, for by the time we two girls and the two young men were. through with
                            it, the book was almost beyond service. He told me his favorite of Longfellow's
                            poems was "The Buildingl of the Ship," and quoted the following lines:
                        
                            "Build me straight, O Worthy Master! Staunch and strong, a goodly vessel, That
                                shall laugh at all disaster And with wave and whirlwind wrestle."
                        
                    
            
            That law office, it might be added, was young Riley's literary sanctum. He did more than
                    read Longfellow there. He was doing much writing. Among other things he had already completed
                    "An Old Sweetheart of Mine."
            Miss Loder had come to 
                        Greenfield
                     first in the summer of 1&75 to attend a "summer normal"
                    conducted by John Binfield, later superintendent of schools of the town. She says: 
                        That summer it rained almost continually, until the wheat shocks standing in the fields were
                            growing out at the tops of them. I was boarding in the hotel where you could see the green
                            mold on the edges of the side walls and ceiling. As a result I became ill with malaria. My
                            brother and his wife came to see me, and when: they saw the condition there, they took me
                            home with them. So when I was able to return, I secured board with a private family by the
                            name of Wilson, whose daughter Julia had married John Riley, a brother of James
                        Whitcomb.
                    
            
            
            Since the Wilsons and Captain Reuben Riley's family lived but a short distance apart, Miss
                    Loder came to know the latter well, with the result that when she was hired a year later under
                    Superintendent Binfield to teach in the grade schools, she engaged board and lodging in the
                    household of the Rileys.
            The Riley home at the time was the old 
                        Greenfield
                     Academy building which Captain Riley had bought after the Civil War and remodeled for a
                    dwelling. The structure was long since destroyed by fire. The children had been born in a little
                    story-and-a-half frame building a short distance away. That house had been torn down by 1875, Mrs.
                    Wood recalls, and a new two-story home erected, which was occupied by a Crawford family. This house
                    is still standing. Though James Whitcomb Riley himself never occupied it, the purchased the dwelling
                    in later life and gave it to his sister-in-law, Mrs. Juila Riley, who lived there for many years. It
                    is now a Riley shrine.
            The remodeled academy building was a tall, old, dignified, block-shaped, frame structure, with a flat
                    roof and a cupola-like belfrey. James Whitcomb had gone to school there under Lee O. Harris, the
                    teacher to whom is given the credit of first interesting the boy in good reading. It was quite an
                    imposing house, the pillar-like ornaments on the veranda-less front emphasizing an impression of
                    height and dignity. It stood in a large grove of trees with a white picket fence running in front.
                    The Riley children, upon whose imaginations the house had a romanticizing effect, called it the
                    "Old Castle", or the "Castle in the Grove". There are several
                    references to it as such in Cornelia Loder's old autograph album.
            Mrs. Wood remembers Riley's appearance before the teacher's institute: 
                        I began making my home with them one week before school be gan in order to attend the
                            teacher's institute. The teachers had requested James Whitcomb to give his Bear
                            story at the institute, and Elva said to me: "I wish Jim wouldn't do that.
                            It sounds so silly." I had never heard it before and could see why everybody wanted
                            to hear him tell it. It was that and other imitations of childhood which were already making
                            him famous.
                    
            
            Although these early creative impersonations were the side of Riley's work which would lead
                    to the poems which  seem now most likely to meet the tests of
                    time, they were not then considered serious literary efforts by Riley himself beyond their power to
                    win a, hearing and to bring in cash returns. To a considerable degree they were a carry-over from an
                    unfulfilled desire for a stage career. Riley's early adventures with a traveling medicine
                    show are now, of course, almost a Hoosier legend. In 
                        Greenfield
                    , he had been active for years both in amateur and professional theatricals. He had
                    played in Charles 
                        Fenton
                    's Toodles, in The Chimney Corner, in A Child of Waterloo, and in August Daly's famous melodrama, Under the Gaslight. His talent was well enough recognized that he was usually recommended
                    whenever a traveling company happened to need a local assistant. Riley and Lee O. Harris, for
                    example, had been among the "well-known local talent" who had once assisted a
                    certain Harry Gilbert Company in the Production of The Rough Diamond, a popular
                    farce. By 1876, however, it seems rather likely that Riley had taken the advice of a property man
                    with a traveling troupe and had abandoned any thought of acting for a living.7
            
            Nevertheless, he had continued to sharpen his powers as a reciter. For one thing, he had long been
                    sensitive to the fact that many of the dialect and other narrative selections which he found in
                    print seemed unsuited to platform delivery merely because they were not written naturally. Sometimes
                    he tried mending the faulty lines but rarely with satisfaction. Then he tried constructing dialect
                    readings of his own, intending them for recital purposes purely, with no thought at all, apparently,
                    of publishing them. He was merely experimenting with his own powers to catch the interest of a
                    listening audience. If he made a hit, he saved the work and polished it. Charles Dickens had caught
                    his interest by this time, and had become his inspiration in platform caricature, just as Longfellow
                    had become his guide in what Riley considered the genuinely creative side of his verse-writing. If
                    either, it was Dickens, not Longfellow, who eventaully led Riley to give the world such uniquely
                    flavored bits as "The Raggedy Man," "Little Orphant Annie," and
                    "When the Frost is on the Punkin."
            By 1874, Riley had begun to take his powers as a reader 
                  
                     7 Marcus Dickey, The Maturity of James Whitcomb
                            Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), Chapter I.
               
                     seriously enough to attempt a one-man entertainment at
                    Monrovia, in 
                        Morgan County
                    . Though the results were not encouraging, the next year, as "Delineator and
                    Caricaturist", he had swung around the small town circuit of Anderson, 
                        Lebanon
                    , and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .8 The outcome of all these efforts had been some local fame, to
                    which Mrs. Wood refers, though not a lucrative degree of it.
            The "Bear Story", published in A Child World in 1896, as
                    "The Bear Story That Alex 'ist Maked Up His-own-se'f," was long
                    to remain one of Riley's most popular items. It had originated years before in an imitation
                    of the poet's little brother Humboldt. Riley never told the story twice the same, says Mrs.
                    Wood. She adds: 
                        He had some readings which were not original and of which he was fond. I remember one in
                            particular entitled "The Lily Bud" which he said he had given in
                            entertainment, and he recited it to me. It was a story of two brothers living on adjoining
                            farms and who had not spoken to each other for a long time. A little baby came into one of
                            the homes. The other brother happening to be working near that home one day could not resist
                            his desire to see the baby and stepped through the back door up to the cradle, when the
                            father saw him and stepped to his side, and as a result peace was made between them.
                    
            
            This selection, "The Lily Bud", by Anna Poe, proved to be a favorite in
                    Riley's early repertoire. Its subject matter suggests, however, the degree of
                    sentimentalism which was likely to appeal strongly to the unsophisticated country audiences of
                    Indiana in the eighteen-seventies and 'eighties. Riley, in 1876, was fast becoming a master
                    in the platform technique of playing upon simple emotions. Often the literary material used for the
                    appeal was cheap and artificial with Riley's personality the real living force behind the
                    lines. Much of Riley's own verse, as the years pass, suffers from the same fault.
            This platform work, Riley did not consider, at least in earlier years, serious creative effort. He
                    enjoyed it as a means of expression no doubt, but he continued it, or so he insisted time and again,
                    merely because of the monetary consideration.
            "I am simply compelled to ask a fair price," he wrote a committee in 1879,
                    "since it is through this means that I 
                  
                            8
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     hope to gain a revenue sufficient to forward my literary
                        studies."9
            
            His advice to younger poets in later years always emphasized the necessity for some such means of
                    subsistence. "Every author should have some certain means aside from his literary work
                    whereby to 'put money in his purse,'" he wrote in 1888. "All
                    successful ones have so provided, Longfellow, Bryant, Stoddard, Stedman, Twain—all. And
                    that's what I'm trying to do and must…."10
            
            In the meantime, during the closing months of 1876, Riley was laboring hard as an apprentice to what
                    he considered the true poetic craft. "He seemed to want to tell me about what he was
                    writing," Mrs. Wood recalls, "and came to me once and asked what figure could be
                    used for autumn…. 'I'm calling it the gypsy queen,' he
                    said." This poem, in sonnet form, appeared as "Dead Leaves" in the 
                        Newcastle
                    
                    Mercury of November 16, 1876.
            Another time he remarked, "There is one thing I dislike to do more than anything else, and
                    that is to write poems requested for anniversaries or gatherings for any purpose." This
                    sentiment had already been the theme of the poem "Job Work" which had appeared in
                    the People (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) on July 19, 1874.
            In spite of Riley's discouragement, the year of 1876 had really been a rather productive one
                    for him. At least sixteen poems, which eventually reached print, had been written during that year.
                    Many of them seem very poor. Yet, he had already composed such selections as "Dot Leedle
                    Boy", "If I Knew What Poets Know," "Squire Hawkins'
                    Story," and "An Old Sweetheart of Mine", all of which were to be among
                    his most popular selections once he had caught the public ear. That fall, too, Riley was planning
                    with Benjamin S. Parker of 
                        Newcastle
                     and Captain Lee O. Harris of 
                        Lewisville
                    , at Parker's suggestion, a collection of verse to be published for the
                    holidays. The project seems not to have materialized, but it was productiive of much interesting
                        correspondence.11
            
            In fact, Riley's letters to his "brace of correspondents", as he called
                    them in a letter to Captain Harris,12 constitute 
                  
                     9 Dickey, op. cit., 81.
                  
                     10 Riley to Alonzo Hilton Rice, May 18, 1888, Letters of
                                James Whitcomb Riley. 82.
                  
                     11 Riley to Harris, Oct. 26, 1876, Letters of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 10–12.
                  
                     12
                     Ibid., 11.
               
                     the most significant thing about James Whitcomb
                    Riley's literary activities in the closing months of 1876. Parker, who was editor of the 
                        Newcastle
                    
                    Mercury, had been prompted by Harris to write to Riley about his poems in 1875.
                    The correspondence had grown steadily in cordiality, and Parker was now using an occasional verse of
                    Riley's in his columns. Another literary correspondent at this time was Mary Hannah Krout
                    of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Still another, whom Riley called "A highly intellectual woman living in 
                        Wisconsin
                    ,"13 was Ella Wheeler Wilcox. Riley was seeking not merely
                    a hearing but sympathetic encouragement. The letter from Longfellow with its suggestion of approval
                    was, of course, the crowning return from this period of epistolary groping. Indeed Riley was just at
                    the eve of his first important successes at the end of 1876.
            The Riley family group in 
                        Greenfield
                    , of which Jim was at this time still an intimate and rather problematical member, has
                    been preserved more or less characteristically in Cornelia Loder's autograph album.14
            
            Captain Reuben A. Riley, the father, wrote in a firm, attractive, Spencerian hand: 
                        If, through life's eventful race, Our duties be well done, He'll still
                            vouchsafe His grace, And Angels guard us home. June 11th, 1877—
                    
            
            "Cap" Riley was a lawyer, whose abilities before the bar and on the
                    orator's platform were of considerably more than local repute. Mrs. Wood testifies that he
                    was not a money-maker—possibly he was too upright a man to dabble in some of the more
                    lucrative activities open to legal practitioners—but his family were not at all poverty
                    ridden. He had been able to give them not only a comfortable home but all the common advantages
                    available to a respectable small town family. His captain's commission dated from the Civil
                    War when he had commanded a company of Union cavalry. In appearance, he bore a remarkable likeness
                    to John Wilkes Booth, he once told Miss Loder, and, after the assassination of President Lincoln,
                    had on one occasion barely escaped arrest.
            
               
                        13
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  14 Unpublished Riley family autographs from original album in the
                        possession of the writer.
            
            
            The mother of the Riley children had died seven years before Miss Loder came to the Riley home, and
                    the captain later remarried. The stepmother, Mrs. Wood characterizes as patient and kind. Her role
                    of foster mother was difficult, of course, but she filled it efficiently, and the children were
                    usually respectful to her. Her Quakerish "thee" and "thou",
                    however, and various other old-fashioned ways of speech and manner contrasted strangely with the
                    joyous humanity of the first Mrs. Riley. Elizabeth Marine Riley, mother of the poet, had been a
                    woman of keen understanding and sympathy. From her had come the children's interest in
                    poetry. Upon James Whitcomb, who was twenty at her death, she had exerted a powerful emotional
                    influence. There was little wonder that the children in the middle seventies were still grieving
                    keenly for her.
            In the autograph album, the kindly foster mother recorded her name and sentiments thus: 
                        
                     To Cornelia This little emblem of respect I give my valued friend to thee.
                            Treat not its motto with neglect It is dear girl remember me. But say if Heaven should early
                            doom, For all is just by His decree, My bosom to the silent tomb, Wilt thou drop one tear
                            for me. June 7th, 1877 Thy True friend, Mattie C. Riley
                    
            
            On another page, Humboldt, the youngest Riley son, inscribed an ornate "Hum Riley,"
                    with several decorative elaborations which recall the fact that James Whitcomb's earlier
                    trade of sign painting had been passed on by this time to this younger brother.
            The name Marine appears on several pages of this old album. This belonged to
                    visiting relatives on the mother's side. Alice Marine of 
                        Mooresville
                    , a cousin, signed herself appropriately enough, "One of the occupants of the
                        Old Castle for a time." In another place, a young man caller recorded
                    what was probably a pun, "Marine matters at Riley's—things rather
                    'Hazy'". There is enough of such evidence to suggest that the young
                    people in the Riley household were an active, happy group, mingling freely in the normal social life
                    of the town.
            
            James Whitcomb was by no means the only one of the Rileys with a bent for verse making. A knack which
                    had been possessed first by the mother had stimulated an interest in several of the children. The
                    result was that sooner or later most of the family tried a hand at poetizing. Elva, according to
                    Mrs. Wood, had practiced the art considerably, and it seems rather obvious that her contribution to
                    the album, made on June 9, 1877, was an original effort for the occasion. Beginning with an
                    appropriate curtsey to the beloved Longfellow in the line, "It rains and the wind is never
                    weary," she then wrote: 
                        In the dimly outlined vista of the future when alone In a mood of retrospection, you let your
                            memory roam, You must not forget old 
                                Greenfield
                            , and the Castle in the grove You Will not forget the
                            "romance," you must not forget the love Of the many
                            friends you left there, but keep in memories [sic] store One bud of
                            recollection if you can keep no more.
                    The Will in the fourth line is a play upon a young man's name.
                    Elva signed herself appropriately "La fille du chiiteau."
            Little Mary Riley, the "kid sister," was about twelve at this time. She too penned
                    an original expression of her sentiment: 
                        I'm small I know, but then I may Make some noise in this world of ours. My
                            compliments to you I give As plentifully as this day's showers Come down from out
                            the weeping skies.
                    Little Mary was to live to be the last survivor of the Riley family. She died in 1936.
            Outside the family circle itself the most important person, so far as the career of James Whitcomb at
                    this particular period was concerned, was Captain Lee O. Harris, formerly his teacher and inspirer,
                    but now his intimate friend and correspondent. Harris was teaching in 
                        Lewisville
                    , where Miss Loder later met him and obtained his contribution to her collection. The
                    Captain was, of course, a poet in his own right, with considerable fame, at least locally. He too
                    had received an appreciative letter from Longfellow.
            He filled two pages of the young schoolma'am's album with the following stanzas:
            
            
                    I
                    Fellow laborer in the field, There are sown the seeds of thought, May a bounteous harvest yield
                        All the wealth thy toil hath sought.
                    II
                    I'll not wish thee free from pain, Since 'tis what we all must bear, And the
                        beards that arm the grain Still must wound the harvester.
                    III
                    Neither will I wish thee rest, Since 'twere all in vain, my friend, And they always
                        slumber best, Who have labored to the end.
                    IV
                    Dread not thou thy meed of toil— Souls are rusted in repose, But the plough, that
                        turns the soil, Only brightens as it goes.
                    V
                    If a wish I might bestow, Only this the gift should be— Heart to labor and to know
                        Duty weaves a crown to thee.
                    VI
                    Soul to battle with the wrong— Faith, a sword to arm thy will— Power to
                        suffer and be strong— Brave and self reliant still.
                
            James Whitcomb himself does not appear in the album, for the reason that by the time it was
                    circulating in the Riley family in the spring of 1877, he had left 
                        Greenfield
                     field for a post with the Anderson Democrat. The fall and winter of
                    1876–1877 had carried him past the turning point in his career. He had received not only
                    the praise of Longfellow but the recognition of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. In September, after the death of 
                        Hamilton
                     J. Dunbar, friend and schoolmate of Riley and a brilliant young attorney, Riley had
                    written a poetic appreciation to read before a meeting of the 
                        Greenfield
                     bar association. Among the visiting attorneys was Judge E. B. Martendale of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , proprietor of the Journal, who met Riley and the following February
                    published a sketch and poem by him. Encouraged by Marten-dale's praise and a ten dollar
                    check, Riley selected another poem from his manuscripts and sent it to the Journal. It  was "An Old Sweetheart of
                    Mine." Martendale wrote in reply: "I will take in the future any prose or poetry
                    you may write and will compensate you for what you furnish." In April, Riley accepted a
                    regular post on the Anderson Democrat while continuing to write for the Journal and other papers. A full-time place on the Journal was
                    awaiting him, however, and fame itself was just ahead.
            Several years passed before Cornelia Loder, Mrs. Wood by that time, met Jim Riley again. It was in
                    Scott's Theatre in 
                        Fairmount
                    , Indiana, after a program given jointly by Riley and Bill Nye. Riley, who never forgot
                    an acquainbance, greeted his old friend, whose husband accompanied her, in characteristic fashion:
            "Well!" he said drolly, "You married a better looking man than I
                    am!"
            RILEY AT THE BRIDGE
            The Hoosier Poet knew the poem by Longfellow, of which the opening stanza reads: 
                        I stood on the bridge at midnight, As the clocks were striking the hour, And the moon rose
                            o'er the city, Behind, the dark church-tower.
                    
            
            While on a visit to 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                    , Riley wrote to George C. Hitt of 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 1, 1882.1 In a postscript, there is an intimation that
                    Henry W. may have been out a bit late on the night in question: 
                        I have seen Beacon Street—The Old South Church—
                                Boston
                             Common—and "The Bridge" where Longfellow
                            "stood on his head at midnight" when the clocks were givin' the
                            thing away, etc., etc.
                    
            
            
               
                  1 William Lyon Phelps. Editor, Letters of James Whitcomb
                        R&y (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917). 86.
            
         
         
         
            Frances Wright's Experiment with Negro Emancipation
            HELEN ELLIOTT
            
            The early nineteenth century ushered in an era of reform, which touched many American institutions.
                    With serious purpose, many an earnest soul set about to make the world a better place. Utopian
                    schemes based upon ideals of common property and other plans with deep religious motives made their
                    way into the newly developing west. Frances Wright destined to become a crusader for the
                    emancipation of negro slaves and the rights of women, was a connecting link in the history of
                    several western reform movements. She was born in Dundee, 
                        Scotland
                    , on Sept. 6, 1795.1 Members of her family, on the father's
                    side, were extensive landowners and merchants. The mother's family had descended from the
                    "lettered aristocracy of 
                        England
                    ."2 There seems to have been a remarkable similarity in the
                    views of Frances Wright and her father, James Wright, which was somewhat unusual, since he died when
                    Frances was two years old. James Wright was much interested in the governmental reforms of his day.
                    He was deeply affected by the French Revolution, and had translations of French political and
                    philosophical pamphlets made, and distributed in 
                        Scotland
                    .3 So ardent did he become in the espousal of the ideas of Thomas
                    Paine, that he became an object of governmental espionage for a time.4 About
                    this time, he changed the motto on the family crest from "For the king, sometimes"
                    to "Our country is dear, Liberty is dearer." To such a motto the daughter,
                    Frances, could give whole-hearted support.5
            
            After the death of the parents, the three orphaned Wright children were reared by relatives in 
                        England
                    . The brother died, at an early age and the sisters, Camilla and Frances, were close
                    companions till Camilla died. In the home of the English relatives, Frances, naturally studious,
                    found congenial surroundings with a fine library and good 
                  
                     1 Frances Wright D'Arusmont. Biographu, Notes
                                and Pditiaal Letters (Dundee, 
                                Scotland
                            , 1844), 3. The first part of this material is really an autobiography of
                            Frances Wright, who, in 1831, married William Phisuepal D'Arusmont, whom she met
                            when he was teaching in the community school at 
                                New Harmony
                            . Indiana.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 5.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 4.
                  
                            4
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 6.
               
                     teachers. The loneliness of an orphan's life was in a
                    measure, compensated by her opportunity for wide reading and study. She relates in her
                    autobiography, that she learned early in life that "Truth had still to be found and that
                    men were afraid of truth."6
            
            Watching the work of English peasants and their ejection from the estates of the wealthy, Frances
                    Wright developed an intense sympathy for the lowly and down-trodden. She early reached a conclusion
                    that her life's work must be devoted to the cause of the poor and helpless.7
            
            Her study of the Greek philosophers brought to her a great enthusiasm for the teachings of Epicurus,
                    "a devotion which lasted throughout her life."8 In the defense
                    of the teachings of her master, she wrote her first work, Epicurus.
               9 Her investigation of Greek philosophy had turned her alert mind to the road of free
                    inquiry, a route she was destined to follow the remainder of her life.
            Her study of history had awakened in her a great interest for America. To many a person of high
                    idealism, the reactionary era following the Napoleonic wars, brought much pessimism. To Frances
                    Wright, the American ideal of government seemed the hope of the world—"There
                    existed a country consecrated to freedom and in which man might awake to the full knowledge and
                    exercise of his powers."10 In 1818, Frances, accompanied by her sister
                    Camilla, made her first trip to the 
                        United States
                    . To an uncle, who insisted that the thought of their trip to America was startling and
                    painful and who proposed that they visit 
                        Italy
                     instead, Frances replied: "The sight of 
                        Italy
                    , dear Uncle, prostrated under the yoke of 
                        Austria
                    , would break my heart."11
            
            During her stay in 
                        New York City
                    , one personal triumph came to the young visitor in the production of her play
                    "Altorf," by a 
                        New York
                     company of English actors. The theme of the play was the struggle of the forest cantons
                    of 
                        Switzerland
                     against the power of 
                        Austria
                    . The play was produced as of unknown authorship. One newspaper account said of it:
                    "The author is unknown. He has trusted his work 
                  
                            6
                            Ibid., 7.
                        
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 8.
                  
                     8 William Randall Waterman. Frances Wright (
                                New York
                            . 1924). 19.
                  
                     9 Later, Epicurus was extended and published under
                            the name, A Few Days in 
                                    Athens
                                
                     , Waterman. op. cit., 20.
                  
                     10 Waterman. op. cit., 27.
                  
                     11 D'Arusmont, op. cit., 11.
               
                     to its own merits and to the unprejudiced liberality of an
                    American audience. He has trusted a tale of freedom to the feelings of the only nation where the
                    cause of freedom dare be asperted."12 What an interesting situation for
                    one who was soon to be a woman's rights leader, to have her work mistaken for a
                    man's!
            After some visiting in 
                        New York
                    , the two sisters toured the northern and eastern states. The enthusiasm of Frances for
                    everything American led her to believe that in almost all things Americans were superior. With the
                    unfailing courtesy of Americans, their understanding of and devotion to their government, she was
                    greatly impressed. One is inclined to believe that she saw with the prejudiced eye of a young
                    dreamer and idealist.
            For one American institution she had, however, no enthusiasm. She expressed no dasire to include the
                    southern states in her travels, "for the sight of slavery is revolting everywhere, but to
                    inhale the impure breath of its pestilence, in the free winds of America, is odious beyond all that
                    imagination can conceive."13 Of this first visit, she wrote eight years
                    later: "Delighted with the sound of political liberty, the absence of bayonets and
                    constrained taxation, I spoke and published as I felt, in praise of American institutions, and
                    called, and, I believe, first generally awakened the attention of the European public to their study
                    and appreciation."14
            
            Upon her return to 
                        England
                    , Frances Wright published, in 1821, a volume entitled Views on Society and
                        Manners in America. With the publication of this book, she became well known in 
                        England
                     and on the continent. Her book was translated into several languages and was widely
                    read by liberals and reformers. While she shrank from formal society, she found herself agreeably
                    surrounded by a number of people interested in political and social reform. Jeremy Bentham read her
                    book and sought her friendship. At his Queen's Square home, Frances often met with him and
                    his circle, which included James Mill, economist, Francis Plore, astute politician, George Grote,
                    author of The History of 
                            Greece
                        
               , and the jurist, John Austin.15
            
            
               
                  12 Waterman. op. cit., 37. Quoted from the 
                            New York
                        
                        Colmbian, Feb. 18, 1819.
               
                  13 Frances Wright D'Arusmont, Views on Society and
                            Manners in America (
                            London
                        , 1821). 517.
               
                  14 Frances Wright, Course of Popular Lectures (
                            London
                        , C. 1829). 157.
               
                  15 Waterman. op. cit., 61.
            
            
            But however much she may have enjoyed her association with English reformers, it was the acquaintance
                    with the Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                    , which her book brought about, that was to be of profound importance to her, for
                    "at sixty-three, the passion for political liberty burned as strongly in the bosom of the
                    old veteran as in those glorious days when, side by side, with 
                        Washington
                    , he had fought for the independence of the 
                        United States
                    ."16 He read all the books that he could get, describing
                    American life. In this way, he learned of Frances Wright and in a short time, invited her to 
                        France
                    . In September of 1821, she went to 
                        Paris
                     and arranged to meet 
                        Lafayette
                    . A short time after this meeting, she was invited to visit at his home in LaGrange.
                    This was the beginning of a friendship of no ordinary character. In her autobiography she says that
                    she had his most intimate private and political confidence.17 So ardent did
                    Frances Wright become in her enthusiasm for 
                        Lafayette
                     that she urged him to adopt her and Camilla as his children. His family frowned on
                    these developments and a crisis arose, but later reconciliations were effected and the friendship
                    continued. The General's affection and high regard for Frances Wright is shown in a letter
                    from him to an unknown friend. After discussing some matters pertaining to the business affairs of
                    the two sisters and quoting from a letter recently received from Fanny, he says: "Of other
                    matters my dear daughter says very little, but that she loves her adopted father, which you all well
                    know, and whether I do love her is not much a question with you."18 In
                    her associations with 
                        Lafayette
                    , she was close to liberal reforms working under cover in 
                        France
                     and on one occasion she took charge of French exiles in 
                        England
                    .19 In April of 1827, she was back in 
                        France
                     for a six month's visit at La Grange where she worked on writing a life of the
                        General.20
            
            In 1824, when 
                        Lafayette
                     accepted the invitation of the American people to revisit the 
                        United States
                    , Frances and Camilla decided to come to America. Their sailing followed the
                    General's a few days, and they were visitors at many 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 62.
                  
                     17 D'Arusmont, Biography. Notes and
                            Letters, 13.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Lafayette
                             to an unknown friend, 
                                Paris
                            . April 11. 1826. Original letter is in S. W. Jackson Collection. A copy was
                            used by the author. The references daughter and adopted
                            father evidenty are not meant to be literally interpreted.
                  
                     19 Waterman. op. cit., 73.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 76.
               
                     of the balls and public functions given in his honor. As 
                        Lafayette
                     made plans to go to 
                        Virginia
                     to visit his friends, Thomas Jefferson and James 
                        Madison
                    , he wrote in advance to Jefferson about the Wright sisters. 
                        Lafayette
                     told Jefferson of the great pleasure that Frances experienced in knowing that he
                    (Jefferson) had enjoyed reading her book, A Few Days in 
                            Athens
                        . Then the General added that he wished to present "these two adopted
                    daughters of mine to Mrs. Randolph and to you…. [They] have passed the last three years
                    in most intimate connection with my children and myself and have readily yielded to our joint
                    entreaties to make a second visit to the 
                        United States
                    ."21 In replying to this letter, Jefferson wrote:
                    "You mention the return of Miss Wright to America, accompanied by her sister, but do not
                    say what her stay is to be, nor what her course. Should it lead to a visit of our University
                    … herself and companion will nowhere find a welcome more hearty than that with Mrs.
                    Randolph, and all the inhabitants of 
                        Monticello
                    ."22
            
            Unfortunately Frances Wright left no record of her visits to the homes of Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                    , but from the reports of 
                        Lafayette
                    's secretary, Levasseur, we know that many hours of interesting discussion of
                    political and economic affairs took place.23 It was at this time that Frances
                    Wright had her first direct experience with negro slavery. She saw it carried on by men of liberal
                    views, who were apologetic for the institution. In such surroundings, it was easy for the young
                    reformer to catch the inspiration of a bold idea, an experiment to show the world a plan for the
                    gradual emancipation of negro slaves.
            During the spring of 1825, Frances and Camilla visited two communities in the West that were founded
                    by the Rappite Society. The example furnished by this band of Germans and their success in
                    establishing a working community life, based upon principles of common ownership of property, seems
                    to have given great impetus to Frances Wright's dream. In 1803, a band of German dissenters
                    from the Lutheran Church, under the leadership of George Rapp, 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Lafayette
                             to. Jefferson. Oct. 1, 1824, Gilbert Chinard, ed., Letters of
                                Lafavette to Jefferson (
                                Baltimore
                            . 1929), 422–423.
                  
                     22 Jefferson to 
                                Lafayette
                            . Oct. 9, 1824, H. A. Washington. ed., The Writings of Thomas,
                                Jefferson (
                                New York
                            , 1861). 379.
                  
                     23 Waterman. op. cit., 88.
               
                     had migrated to 
                        Butler County
                     in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and set up their first colony which was named Harmonie. Here, they
                    built extensive mills and developed fine farms and vineyards. But the era of steam navigation had
                    come and their site away from the river, was disadvantageous, so a new location was sought. A tract
                    of 30,000 acres was purchased in Indiana Territory, in the lower 
                        Wabash
                     Valley, and, in 1814, the colony began the move to the 
                        Wabash
                    . The new home was also named Harmonie.
               25 Soon the
                    fertile valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     flourished under the diligent toil of the Rappites and one may imagine that Frances
                    Wright was indeed thrilled at the picture of industry and thrift which the community presented when
                    she was there in 1825.
            William Cobbett, who visited Harmonie before the end of the Rappite period wrote of it in his Journal
                    entry of July 1, 1890: 
                        Our road now lay across a field of Indian corn, of, at the very least, a mile in width and
                            bordering the town on the side we entered; I wanted nothing more than to behold this immense
                            field of most beautiful corn to be at once convinced of all I had heard of the industry of
                            this society of Germans … We went out to see their harvest which had just begun.
                            There were 150 men and women all reaping in the same field of wheat. A beautiful sight. The
                            crop is very fine….26
                  
                    
            
            Richard Flower, a visitor from the nearby English community at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , reported in 1819, that he had spent the week at Harmonie, "that wonder of the
                    West, [where] every man has his station appointed him according to his wishes … It is
                    from this hive of industry that Albion and its vicinity have drawn its supplies and its contiguity
                    to such neighbors, has been of great advantage.27
            
            But in spite of their material progress, the Rappites decided to move back East, where more stable
                    money conditions prevailed, and Rapp's advertisement to sell Harmonie 
                  
                     24 J. Schenck, The Rappites (
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, 1890). 8.
                  
                     25 John Samuel Duss, George Rapp and His Associates (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914). This address was delivered at the Centennial Celebration held at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, on June 6, 1914. In 1903. Mr. Duss. resigned as one of the trustees
                            of the Rappite Society and Mrs. Duss was chosen to the vacancy. The Society was dissolved in
                            1906. Ibid., 42.
                  
                     26 William Cobbett, "A Year's Residence in the 
                                United States
                            ," Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, edited by
                            Harlow Lindley (Indiana Historical Commission, 1916). 514–519. Cobbett mentioned
                            that steam engines were being used in the manufacturing carried on, and stated that the
                            Rappites labored in common and possessed property in common except houses, gardens, cows and
                            poultry which each family fed for itself.
                  
                     27 Richard Flower, "Flower's Letters from 
                                Lexington
                             and the 
                                Illinois
                            , 1819", Early Western Travels edited by R. G.
                            Thwaites (
                                Cleveland
                            . 1904). X, 98–99. A relative of Richard Flbwer. Ges Flower, was
                            later associated with Frances Wright at 
                        Nashoba, Tennessee
                     .
               
                     appeared in Eastern papers. The buyer of the property of the
                    community came not from the east, however, but from 
                        Scotland
                    . Robert Owen, already an international figure in factory reform, had decided, as had
                    Frances Wright earlier, that only in a new country like the 
                        United States
                    , could one be free to work out social reforms without interference. Robert
                    Owen's son, Robert Dale Owen, stated in later years that when the prospect of buying
                    Harmonie had been presented to his father, he said: "Here is a vilage already built
                    … a country where thought is free."28
            
            When Frances Wright came to Harmonie the first time, she found it in the transition period. The
                    Rappites were leaving and the advance guard of the Owen Colony was coming into the town, which was
                    now renamed by Robert Owen, 
                  
                            New Harmony
                        .
               29 Miss Wright saw the agricultural and industrial success
                    of the first group and caught the social reform spirit of the Owenites. Out of this combination, she
                    began to evolve her plan, which had been developing since her visit to 
                        Virginia
                    , the inspiration of which had so stirred fier zeal to aid the slave. It is easy to
                    believe that the influence of Robert Owen's thinking would produce a profound effect on
                    Frances Wright. His theory that man was entirely the product of his environment would strengthen her
                    feeling that the negro, given a chance, would soon equal the white man. She expressed her belief as
                    to the effects of environment on the negro: 
                        Had not the Europeans of a less humane age degraded the African below the human standard and
                            laid the benumbing hand of oppression upon his intellect, it is doubtful whether the least
                            enlightened of us should ever have seen anything in a sable skin, but a whim of nature, or
                            attributed the ignorance and slavishness of the African tribes on their own soil, to any
                            other causes than those which variously operate on the human race, in all the differing
                            climates and countries of the globe.30
                  
                    
            
            Both Robert Owen and Fanny Wright were endowed with the crusading spirit which asked few particulars
                    as to the practical means but saw only the lofty aims and ideals for bettering the lot of humanity.
                    Robert Dale Owen, also a true disciple of his father's philosophy, was a congenial spirit
                    to Frances Wright from the first. He wrote that she 
                  
                     28 Robert Dale Owen, Threading My Way (
                                London
                            , 1874). 210.
                  
                     29 George B. Lockwood, The NEW Harmony Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 68.
                  
                     30 D'Arusmont, Views on Society. 74.
               
                     "was a thorough republican; indeed, an advocate of
                    universal suffrage without regard to color or sex." He also stated that her
                    "abilities as an author and lecturer were of high order." 31
            
            Frances Wright had convinced herself that negro slavery was out of harmony with American ideals and
                    she attempted to explain that it had been imposed upon a people, for the most part, very unwilling
                    to have it introduced and established. Her arguments were: (1) The Negro was carried in forcibly to
                    the colonists' feelings and despite the resistance of colonists and solemn protestations of
                    their assemblies. (2) Colonial 
                        Virginia
                     enumerated the slave trade as a wrong suffered at the hands of the British government.
                    (3) The foreign slave trade was abolished by the 
                        United States
                     in 1508. (4) The slave trade was later considered as piracy and punishable by the laws
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . (5) Slavery had been abolished in all American States where the number of slaves was
                    not sufficient to render an act of enfranchisement rnenacing to the major interests of public order,
                    industry and general welfare of the country. (6) The North failed on its part to appreciate the
                    dangers to the Negro, of sudden emancipation.32
            
            Miss Wright connected her distrust of orthodox religion as practiced by the Established Church with
                    her statement that slavery had been most acceptable in those colonies where the English church
                    prevailed by law.33 The idea of the colonization movement for negroes, seems to
                    have appealed to her from the time of her first visit to America: 
                        Some at present have devised the scheme of appropriating to this purpose [colonization of
                            negroes], the money arising from the sale of public lands. From various circumstances I am
                            led to think that this measure is neither visionary nor impracticable, especially as it
                            finds supporters among the slaveholders of the South.34
                  
                    With this background of study, she felt convinced that the American people had only in part
                    and unwillingly accepted slavery, and once they were shown a feasible way to get rid of the evil,
                    gradually, they would accept the plan gladly. Of the Abolitionists, she said that she found them to
                    have 
                  
                     31 Dobert Dale Owen, "My Experience of Community
                            Life," Atlantic Monthly (Sept., 1873). XXXII, 347.
                  
                     32 DArusmont. Biography. 20–21.
                  
                     33 Frances Wright, Views on Society, 63.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 69.
               
                     "much zeal and little knowledge,"35 and she had little sympathy for them and their methods.
            By the summer of 1825, her plan had taken definite form. 
                        Lafayette
                     before his return to 
                        France
                    , had gone over the plan with her, and had submitted it to his friends, Jefferson,
                    Madison and John Marshall.36 During this period, Frances Wright wrote to Thomas
                    Jefferson asking his support and active help in the direction of her plan. In his reply, he said:
                        
                        I do not permit myself to take part in any new enterprises, even for bettering the condition
                            of man, not even in the great one which is the subject of your letter and which has been
                            through life, that of my greatest anxieties…. The abolition of the evil is not
                            impossible, it might never, therefore, be despaired of. Every plan should be adopted, every
                            experiment tried, which may do something toward the the ultimate object.
                    With the caution of one grown old and not too sanguine of perfection, he added: 
                        Your proposition has its aspects of promise also and should it not answer fully to
                            calculations in figures, it may yet in its developments, and lead to happy results. You are
                            young, dear Madam, and have the powers of mind which may do much in exciting others in this
                            arduous work. I am confident they will be so exerted and I pray Heaven for their succcess
                            and that you may be rewarded with the blessings which such efforts merit.37
                  
                    
            
            In her discussions with slave owners, many of whom admitted in theory that slavery was bad, and even
                    morally wrong, Miss Wright had become convinced that the only obstacle to emancipation was the
                    pecuniary interest which the planters derived from slavery. She believed that the slave might become
                    a free man without loss to the owner, and be a gain to society, in that his freedom would add
                    another man to the population.38 Her plan was based upon these general
                    principles: (1) The purchase of an estate in a southern state, to furnish an opportunity for negro
                    labor. (2) The purchase of some slaves, a few to start, more to be added later. These slaves and
                    lanqs to be paid for by herself. (3) Each slave was to be charged with his purchase 
                  
                     35 D'Arusmont, Biography, 22.
                  
                     36 Waterman. op. cit., 96.
                  
                     37 Jefferson to Frances Wright, Aug. 7, 1825. William B. Parker and
                            Jonas Vilea, editors, Letters and Addressas of Thomag Jefferson, (
                                New York
                            , 1905). 285–86.
                  
                     38 Amos Gilbert, Memoir of Frances Wright (
                                Cincinnati
                            . 1855). 25. Mr. Gilbert was later associated with Frances Wright in newspaper
                            work in 
                                New York
                            .
               
                     price in the bill of sale. In addition he was to be charged
                    with his board and clothing costs. A fair rate of interest on the investment was to be charged also.
                    To his credit, would be his labor. Any over work or extra care in management were to be carefully
                    recorded and credit given. Labor was to be paid the usual prices, articles furnished to be rated at
                    cost prices. (4) When any slave's credit account balanced his cost price, he was to go
                    free. (5) When his freedom was gained, the slave was to be colonized in some place outside the 
                        United States
                    . This was a concession to the wishes of southern planters who did not believe that free
                    negroes would be desirable or successful in southern communities.39 added:
            The plan included setting up a school for industrial education of the slaves, along the lines
                    followed on some large plantations where skilled slaves were taught carpentry, shoe-making,
                    black-smithing, sewing, weaving, etc. It has been said that "She [Frances Wright]
                    anticipated the work of Hampton Roads [Hampton Institute] by nearly half a century, of Tuskeegee by
                    nearly a century…."40
            
            It was estimated that it would take a good worker five years to earn his purchase price, with
                    interest. In order that families might not be broken up, labor was to be valued by the family,
                    instead of by the head, keeping the children with the parents until they reached a certain age.41
            
            In the fall of 1825, Miss Wright set out to locate the site for her experiment. She turned to the
                    State of 
                        Tennessee
                    . She had already met General Andrew Jackson and probably knew that he was interested in
                    the idea of gradual emancipation. General 
                        Lafayette
                    's secretary, Levasseur, furnishes an account of their visit to the Hermitage,
                    to which he adds: 
                        Everybody told us that the slaves of General Jackson were treated with utmost kindness and
                            several persons assured us that they should not be astonished if, in a short time, their
                            master… were to give to 
                                Tennessee
                            , an example of gradual emancipation, which would be easier to perform in that
                            state, because there are only 79,000 slaves out of a total population of 423,000, and
                            because public feeling is more favorable there than elsewhere to the abolition of
                                slavery.42
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  39
                  Ibid., 26.
               
                  40 Anna B. A. Brown, "A Dream of Emancipation," New 
                                England
                             Magazine (June, 1904). n.8. XXX, 494.
               
                  41 Waterman, op. cit., 98.
               
                  42 A. Levasseur. Lafavette in America (
                            New York
                        , 1829). II, 172.
            
            
            George Flower from the English settlement at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , accompanied Miss Wright to 
                        Tennessee
                    . He had taken an active part in the slavery struggles in 
                        Illinois
                     and had financed the migration of a number of negroes to 
                        Haiti
                    .43 Flower knew 
                        Lafayette
                     and seems to have conferred with him regarding the Wright experiment, since he reported
                    that ''Mr. Flower assured me, when we parted, that Fanny should not be suffered to
                    go beyond the fixed sum."44 A few weeks later, 
                        Lafayette
                     wrote to a mutual friend of Frances Wright and himself that the fixed sum for the
                    venture of Miss Wright was $10,000.45
            
            Flower and Miss Wright reached 
                        Memphis
                     on October 8, 1825. In a short time, they had arranged for the purchase of lands along
                    the Wolf River, some thirteen miles from 
                        Memphis
                    . In all, about two thousand acres were purchased.
            To her property, Miss Wright gave the old Chickasaw Indian name for wolf, 
                  
                            Nashoba
                        .
               46 George Flower returned to 
                        Illinois
                     to make arrangements for bringing his family and Camilla Wright to 
                        Nashoba
                     in the spring. Frances remained in 
                        Tennessee
                     superintending the building of cabins and the management of a few slaves purchased to
                    start the experiment. To what limits her enthusiasm carried her may be seen in this account: 
                        It was not to be anticipated that one born in the lap of wealthy aristocracy, who probably
                            had never kneaded bread, churned butter or perchance put a stitch in a garment should
                            without the pressure of necessity, voluntarily turn woodman, or that an enlightened, refined
                            female should forego the pleasures of intelligent intercourse, and confine herself to the
                            society of uncultivated, undeveloped minds. But she did it, and might be seen with her
                            swarthy companions, piling brush, rolling logs, etc., from dawn to dusky eve. As a specimen
                            of her application to business, she left in the morning twilight in search of their cows,
                            and returned in the evening twilight, having traversed the forest a whole day without a
                            mouthful of food. Several times she went alone on horseback from 
                                Tennessee
                             to 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, through a wilderness country with several rivers
                            of swimming depth. Once she fell in with two men who had a black man in custody. After some
                            altercation she took the Negro on behind her and repaired to the office of a Magistrate to
                            ascertain if he were legally held.47
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  43 Waterman, op. cit., 99.
               
                  44
                        
                            Lafayette
                         to an unknown friend, March 16, 1826, loc. cit.
               
               
                  45
                        
                            Lafayette
                         to Julie Garnet, June 19, 1826. Original letter in S. W. Jackson collection.
               
                  46 Waterman. op. cit., 101.
               
                  47 Gilbert, op. cit., 27–28.
            
            
            In February 1826, the experiment began in earnest. George Flower and family with Camilla Wright
                    arrived by flatboat. A little later two other men joined the enterprise, James Richardson, a
                    Scotchman whom Miss WTight had met at 
                        Memphis
                    , and Richeson Whitby, who had recently been with Robert Owen's community at 
                        New Harmony
                    .48 Months of hard work followed and Miss Wright wrote to a friend:
                    "We have raised buildings for immediate use, cleared and fenced around them…
                    fenced an apple orchard of five acres, planted potatoes in a vegetable garden, opened fifteen acres
                    for corn, and planted two acres of old ground in cotton."49
            
            As a result of the heavy labor and the malarial climate, the founder became seriously ill and for a
                    time her life seemed threatened. During the summer of 1826, with her experiment barely started, she
                    left for 
                        New Harmony
                     to rest and recover from the effects of her illness. Here she found Robert
                    Owen's community in full flower. She was profoundly influenced by her visit and upon her
                    return to 
                        Nashoba
                    , decided to incorporate some of his ideas into her experiment. No doubt she felt the
                    need of help in the management of the plantation, since her illness had shown the danger of
                    depending upon herself alone for leadership. In December, 1826, she created a board of trustees for 
                        Nashoba
                     and conveyed to them all of her lands and property in 
                        Tennessee
                    . The ten trustees named were General 
                        Lafayette
                    , William Maclure, Robert Owen, Caldwallader Colden, Richeson Whitby, Robert Jennings,
                    Robert Dale Owen, George Flower, Camilla Wil-ight, and James Richardson. Of these trustees five
                    were, or had been, associated with the venture at 
                        New Harmony
                    .50
            
            The deed, as conveyed to the trustees, provided that the lands were to be held in perpetual trust for
                    the negro race. A school for negro children was always to form a principal part of the plan, and
                    further all negroes emancipated by the trustees, were, upon quitting the institution, to be placed
                    out of the limits of the 
                        United States
                    .51
            
            Other provisions followed which distinctly modified the 
                  
                     48 Waterman, op. oit., 105.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 105.
                  
                     50 The five included besides Robert Owen, his son and Maelure.
                            Jennings and Whitby.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 106.
               
                     plan from its original scheme for a simple experiment in
                    self-emancipation. In an article written two years later for the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, Miss Wright explained her purposes, in the revised plan, which John H.
                    Noyes has called a sort of Brook Farm plus a negro basis. In this revised plan, whites as well as
                    free negroes could be members of the cooperative society. Rigid rules of selection were laid down to
                    prevent unfit members from coming to join. This was, no doubt, added because of the
                    founder's observation that some who were lazy and indifferent had flocked to the 
                        New Harmony
                     community.
            Provisiow of the revised plan for the 
                        Nashoba
                     institution included: (1) No member is to be admitted until he or she has served a
                    novitiate of six months, and only then by a unanimous vote of the resident proprietors. (2) The
                    admission of a husband does not involve admitting the wife, or vice versa, nor the
                    admission of a parent include children over the age of fourteen years. Each individual is to be
                    received on his or her merits. (3) The marriage law existing without the pale of the Institution, is
                    of no force in the Institution. No woman can forget her individual rights or no man assert over her
                    any rights or power beyond what he may exercise over her free and voluntary affections. (4) Any
                    member not able to work, may pay an equivalent amount of money, the highest amount not to exceed two
                    hundred dollars a year. (5) Any property held by members is to be deeded over to the trustees. (6)
                    Moral requisites necessary —an amiable and willing disposition, kindly affections, simple
                    tastes, a high tone of moral feeling. (7) Religion is to occupy no place in the creed of the
                    Institution, and the "rule of moral practice there proposed has simply in view human
                    happiness, considering as virtuous whatever tends to promote that happiness and as vicious, whatever
                    tends to counteract it." (8) Children of outsiders may be educated in the schools at a cost
                    of $100 per year. (9) Young people are urged to learn a trade before applying for
                    membership and to bring such tools and equipment as they may have, with them.52
            
            Under this new plan, the promoter was not content merely to emancipate slaves, but contemplated
                    curing the 
                  
                     52 Excerpts from articles written by Frances Wright and published in
                            the 
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette. Jan. and Feb., 1828.
               
                     ills of mankind. It reflects the evolution and flowering of an
                    intense zeal to make over the world.
            Robert Dale Owen wrote: "In the spring of 1827, 
                        New Harmony
                     had ceased to be a community and I agreed to accompany Miss Wright to 
                        Nashoba
                    , hoping there to find more cultivated and congenial associates than those among whom
                    for eighteen months, I had been living."53 He reported that he found
                    the outlook unpromising, the land poor, slaves working indolently, Miss Wright's health bad
                    and Whitby, the farm manager, in despair of being able to manage the slaves if Miss Wright and her
                    sister should leave.54
            
            In May, 1827, it was decided that Frances Wright's health could improve only with a change
                    of climate, so she, accompanied by Robert Dale Owen, set out for 
                        France
                    
                    via
                    
                        New Orleans
                    . En route, she was seriously ill, but gradually recovered her health
                    during the long sea voyage.55 They visited with 
                        Lafayette
                     at LaGrange. In a letter from 
                        Lafayette
                     to Concitoyen, he reported: "We have with us Miss Wright, who was near death
                    in Western 
                        Tennessee
                    , and has partly recovered towards health and strength as a result of having spent a few
                    months in Europe."56
            
            But her rest and happy visit were disturbed by reports of chaotic conditions at 
                        Nashoba
                    . Neither Camilla Wright, Whitby, or Richardson, the resident trustee, seemed to be able
                    to manage the place satisfactorily. Richardson, who appears to have dominated the other two
                    trustees, made some very unwise moves. One was the publication of records of the 
                        Nashoba
                     Society, which showed a decided laxness in moral tone and gave evidence that free love
                    was accepted there. This report, published in Benjamin Lundy's Genius of
                        Universal Emancipation, brought a round of protest from the friends of Francis and
                        Camilla.57 James 
                        Madison
                    , writing to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1828, said of Miss Wright: 
                        With her rare talents and still rarer disinterestedness, she has, I fear, created insuperable
                            obstacles to her good fruits, of which they 
                        
                           53 Robert Dale Owen, "Frances Wright, General 
                                        Lafayette
                                     and Mary W. Shelley," Atlantic Monthly
                                    (Oct., 1873), XXXII, 449.
                        
                           54 Anna B. A. Brown, "A Dream of
                                    Emancipation," loc. cit., 496, states that the land of 
                                        Nashoba
                                     was "wonderfully rich."
                        
                           55 Waterman, op. cit., 112.
                        
                           56
                                    
                                        Lafayette
                                     to Concitoyen, Aug. 16, 1827. Original letter in S. W. Jackson
                                    collection.
                        
                           57 Fred 
                                        London
                                    . Benjmin Lundy, Abolitionist, 189–197. A
                                    comment is made regarding 
                                        Nashoba
                                     and Lundy's interest in it, but he added that, "at a
                                    later date, we displayed less enthusiasm for that body's rather startling
                                    views on marriage and some kindred subjects," ibid.,
                                192.
                     
                             might be productive, by her disregard, or rather
                            defiance, of the most established opinion and vivid feelings. Besides her views on
                            amalgamating the white and black population, so universally obnoxious, she gives an eclat to
                            her notions on the subject of religion and marriage, the effect of which your knowledge of
                            this countdy, can readily estimate.58
                  
                    
            
            In a report of the trustees of 
                        Nashoba
                     published in the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, in 1828, it was evident that grave problems had arisen. This report
                    stated: "The trustees have encountered many difficulties." The trustees complained
                    that they had found it difficult to find men and women mentally and morally fitted for the good
                    work. They had admitted some good people who had no capital, and the society assumed a mixed form.
                    The trustees admitted some to labor and others as boarders, who did not labor, and they erred by so
                    doing, making inequality. They either had to require physical labor from all, or else form a society
                    composed of small capitalists, or a simple cotiperative society. The trustees had decided to admit
                    in the future, only those with a certain sum yearly for their support. For the present they would
                    give up their idea of a cooperative society. Each member would pay into the organization one hundred
                    dollars yearly for board and each pay his own individual expenses in addition. They urged further
                    that each member should build for himself a brick house, with broad piazza, coastructed according to
                    a regular plan to cost about five hundred dollars per house. They concluded the report with a
                    statement that the trustees would be responsible for the slaves, now on the place, and enable them
                    to emancipate themselves as they were then doing, by their own labor.59
            
            After her visit in 
                        France
                    , Frances Wright returned to 
                        England
                    . There she prevailed upon her friend, Mrs. Frances Trollope, to accompany her to
                    America. She seems to have convinced Mrs. Trollope that 
                        Nashoba
                     would be a delightful place to visit and wanted her to join their society there.60 Mrs. Trollope left an interesting. account of her association with Frances
                    Wright on this trip: 
                        This lady, since become so celebrated as the advocate of opinions, which make millions
                            shudder and some half-score admire, was, at the time of my leaving 
                                England
                             with her, dedicated to a pursuit widely different from her subsequent
                            occupation. Instead of becoming a public 
                        
                           58
                                    Writings of James 
                                            Madison
                                        
                           , edited by Gaillard Hunt (
                                        New York
                                    , 1910), IX, 311.
                        
                           59 Excerpts from a report of the 
                                        Nashoba
                                     trustees, published in the 
                                        New Harmony
                                    
                                    Gazette, Nov., 1828.
                        
                           60 Waterman, op. cit., 123.
                     
                             orator in every town in America, she was about, as she
                            said, to seclude herself for life, in the deepest forests of the Western world, that her
                            fortune, her time, and her talents might be exclusively devoted to aid the cause of
                            suffering Africans. Her first object was to show that nature had made no difference between
                            whites and blacks, excepting in complexion, and this she meant to prove by giving an
                            education perfectly equal to a class of black and white children. I expected, for my
                            children and myself, both pleasure and information from visiting her establishment and
                            watching the success of her experiment.61
                  
                    
            
            When the party reached 
                        Nashville
                    , they were forced to remain there for awhile, due to rains and bad roads. Mrs. Trollope
                    reported in regard to the trip from 
                        Nashville
                     that the 
                        road was a mass of stumps. The forest became thicker and more dreary-looking every mile we
                            advanced, but our ever-grinning negro declared it was a right good road and that we should
                            be sure to get to 
                                Nashoba
                             and so we did … and one glance sufficed to convince me that every
                            idea I had formed of the place was as far as possible from the truth. Desolation was the
                            only feeling, the only word that presented itself, but it was not spoken. I think that Miss
                            Wright was aware of the painful impression which her forest home produced on me and I doubt
                            not that the conviction reached us both at the same moment, that we had erred in thinking
                            that a few mohths passed together at this spot could be productive of pleasure to either of
                            us. But to do her justice, I believe that her mind was so exclusively occupied by the object
                            she had then in view, that all things else were worthless, or indifferent to her. I never
                            heard or read of any enthusiasm approaching hers except in a few instances, in ages past, of
                            religious fanaticism.62
                  
                    
            
            Mrs. Trollope's work gives a picture of 
                        Nashoba
                     as she saw it. A hollow square of cleared land was surrounded by a rail fence. Six log
                    houses were placed at intervals around the square. She reported further that, 
                        Each building consisted of two large rooms furnished in the most simple manner, nor had they
                            as yet collected around them any of those minor comforts which ordinary minds class as the
                            necessities of life.63
                  
                    
            
            She counted 
                        between thirty and forty slaves including children. No school had been established. Books and
                            other materials for the great experiment had been collected, and one or two professors
                            engaged, but nothing as yet was organized.64
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     61 Mrs. Frances Terollope. Domestic Manners of the
                                ArnerimW (
                                London
                            , 1832), I, 17–18.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 38.
                  
                     63
                            Iibd., 39.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 40.
               
                     It did not take long for Mrs. Trollope to decide that the
                    climate would be harmful to herself and children, and they soon departed from 
                        Nashoba
                    .
            Even the high enthusiasm of the founder began to wane, and, within the year, Frances Wright again
                    left 
                        Nashoba
                     under the management of an inefficient overseer. The decline was rapid and Miss Wright,
                    by this time, engaged in editorial work on the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, and, with starting her career as a lecturer, decided to abandon the
                    project. She carried out her promise of emancipation and colonization made to slaves at 
                        Nashoba
                     and personally directed their removal. She chartered the brig, John Quincy
                        Adams, of 
                        Boston
                    , and with her charges sailed from 
                        New Orleans
                     for Haitai in January, 1830. She placed the negroes under the personal care of
                    President Boyer of Qaiti, and left them with his assurance that he would aid them in every way
                        possible.65 Her original scheme had become too much involved with eccentric
                    ideas. "Her experiment in self emancipation was one of the very few efforts made to solve
                    the problem of American slavery, and it deserved a better fate."66 When
                    telling of the concluding phases of the 
                        Nashoba
                     story, she remarked for the first time that she had bowed her spirit in humility before
                    the omnipotence of collective humanity: "Man Species is alone capable of effecting what I,
                    weak existence of an hour! have thought myself equal to attempt."67
            
            
               
                  65 Waterman, op. cit., 131.
               
                  66
                        Ibid., 133.
               
                  67 D'Arusmont. Biography, 31.
            
         
         
         
            A Civil War Story from 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            Last year, we published an article by Julie LeClerc 
                        Knox
                     of 
                        Vevay
                    , under the title, "I remember My Grandmother."1
                    This was an interesting account of an intelligent and determined widow who successfully operated a
                    tavern in 
                        Vevay
                     for many years. A brief account of an episode in which the efficient and kindly little
                    lady, Julie LeClerc (Mrs. Julie Morerod LeClerc), mistress of the LeClerc House, stood her ground
                    under trying circumstances comes from Mrs. Nora Lewis Dupraz of 
                        Vevay
                    . Here is the story as told by Mrs. Dupraz to Miss 
                        Knox
                    : 
                        During the early part of the Civil War, the little town of 
                                Vevay
                             was divided between unionists and southern sympathizers and feeling ran very
                            high. When Jason B. Brown, member of the lower branch of the Indiana Legislature from 
                                Dearborn County
                            
                            2 came to speak in support of Clement L. Vallandigham,3 the people were stirred to primitive depths, and 
                                Brown
                             was not permitted to speak. His supporters decided to present the visitor with
                            a gold-headed cane, at that time considered a gift par excellence as a token of esteem.
                            Without obtaining permission, the admirers of 
                                Brown
                             assembled in the parlors of the LeClerc House. The unionist element,
                            "scenting something in the wind", rushed in, and, seizing 
                                Brown
                            , who was a small man, threatened to swing him from the nearest lamp post. Mrs.
                            LeClerc, who happened to be on the second floor, heard the commotion and hurried to the top
                            of the stairway, where she stood as she addressed the crowd. She demanded that Brown, a
                            guest at her tavern, be released at once and told the disturbers to disperse peaceably and
                            immediately. Then she emphatically denounced those who, without authority, had chosen her
                            premises for the presentation of the cane. She now descended to the first floor, took her
                            stand in front of 
                                Brown
                             and dared any one to touch him. The mob, recalled to their better senses by the
                            words of the courageous, little widow, shamefacedly departed. 
                                Brown
                             probably owed his life to the determined stand of his landlady. In order to
                            effect his escape, he had to climb through a back window, and conceal himself in one of the
                            buildings at the rear of the LeClerc House until he could get away from 
                                Vevay
                            .
                    
            
            
               
                  1
                  Indiana Magazine of History (June, 1938). XXXIV.
                        176–187.
               
                  2 From 1889 to 1896. 
                            Brown
                         was a member of the national House of Represmtatives.
               
                  3 Vallandigham, a member of the national House of Representatives from 
                            Ohio
                         was the most outspoken of the northern opponents of the Civil War.
            
         
         
         
            Facts From Old Postal Route-Books
            MYRTLE WALKER AMICK
            
            Much source material for the study of the early towns and routes of travel in Indiana is to be found
                    in the old Route-Books of the Post Office Department. The legislation establishing the Department
                    provides in one section that "an abstract of the bids received containing the names of the
                    parties offering and the terms and duration of the proposed contracts shall be recorded in a well
                    bound book." Today it is in these "well bound books" that much of
                    interest is found relating to the postal service in the territory and the later state of Indiana.
            The exact beginnings of mail delivery in the Northwest Territory, part of which later became the
                    Territory of Indiana, are not definitely established, a fire in the Department in 1836 having
                    destroyed a part of the records. Yet from a 
                        Cincinnati
                     paper we know of at least one route traversing the territory. The period
                    1814–1817, however, is covered in the old leather-bound books, which much resemble the
                    ledgers and journals found in country stores of southern Indiana half a century ago. In them are
                    recorded the results of the advertisements which appeared at frequent intervals in newspapers of
                    this period under the caption, "Proposals to Carry Mails". Section 4 of the Act of
                    March 2, 1799, provides, among other conditions, that these advertisements must be 
                        published in one or more newspapers in the state or states where the contract is to be
                            performed for at least 6 weeks before entering into any contract for carrying the mail;
                            where such contract is intended to be made and the day on which it is to be concluded,
                            describing the places from and to which such mail is to be conveyed and the time it is to be
                            made up and the day and hour it is to be delivered.
                    
            
            Among the conditions listed were some that are quite interesting. Bids on each route must be made
                    separately, and the route, the sum, the mode of service and the residence of the bidder must each be
                    distinctly stated in each bid. No proposal was to be considered unless accompanied by a guarantee
                    signed by one or more responsible persons in the form specified in the law. One condition laid down
                    was, that, should a contractor run a stage or other vehicle more rapidly or frequently than he was
                    required to carry the mail, he must give the same increased frequency and celerity to the  mail and without increased compensation. On routes where
                    transportation was more difficult in some seasons than in others, the law permitted the contractors
                    to submit proposals for carrying mail on horseback or in wagons or carts instead of by coach or
                    stage for a specified number of weeks or months each year. Such proposals must be considered and a
                    decision made. Unless provision was made in the contract for the submission of proposals, however,
                    post-coach or stage-coach service could not be dispensed with on any route.1
            
            The first complete record contained in the post Office archives covering a period for Indiana is from
                    January 1, 1814, to December 31, 1817. The arrangement is alphabetical, so that one page may be for
                    a route in 
                        Ohio
                     or the Indiana Territory and the next page devoted to a contract for carrying the mail
                    in 
                        Connecticut
                    . The post-office where the route began determined the alphabetical order; thus, on page
                    twenty-three, is listed the route from 
                        Charlestown
                     to 
                        Salem
                    , the 
                        Cincinnati
                     routes beginning on page twenty-four. Each route was allotted one page, the data being
                    recorded in the meretricious penmanship of the book-keeping style of that time. Errors in spelling
                    were not infrequent, creeping in no doubt through copying the penmanship of others which might in
                    turn have been copied from the reports of the postmasters of the West who usually had their own
                    ideas of spelling; as an example the name 
                        Vevay
                     appears as Vevais in several places in one of the books.
            On page twenty of the volume for 1814 to 1817, is recorded the first route for Indiana. 
                        Chillicothe
                     was one of the important mail centers west of the Alleghanies and from this point a
                    route extended by way of 
                        Fayette
                    , Zenia, 
                  Dayton, Lexington
               , Eaton and on to 
                        Salisbury
                    , the early county seat of 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana. The contractor, Jacob Ayers, received $150 per quarter for weekly
                    trips on this route. On page twenty-three, the contract between James M. Taggart and the federal
                    government is recorded. There was a weekly mail between 
                        Charlestown
                    , then the county seat of Clarke County, by Indiana (?) Ferry to 
                        Salem
                     and return for which the contractor received $42.50. It is assumed that this
                    was for one quarter of three months. Whether 
                  
                     1
                            Indiana Democrat. May 22. 1839.
               
                     the pay period was for the quarter or the year is often not
                    indicated.
            From 
                        Cincinnati
                    , as recorded on page twenty-four of this volume, a route by way of Cleves, North Bend,
                    Mouth of the Miami, Laurenceburg (
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ), Laughery Creek, 
                        Vevay
                    , Jefferson C. H. (
                        Madison
                    ), Smockville, 
                  Charlestown, Jeffersonville
                and thence to 
                        Louisville
                     was awarded to John Jackson for a consideration of $1370. The schedule was
                    as follows: Leave 
                        Cincinnati
                     Thursday at four in the afternoon; leave 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     at eleven in the forenoon; arrive at 
                        Louisville
                     on Sunday at six in the morning. The return trip was made, the mail leaving 
                        Louisville
                     at six in the forenoon on Monday and arriving in 
                        Cincinnati
                     at ten in the forenoon on the following Thursday. The abbreviation f. is used to
                    indicate the forenoon with a. for afternoon. A.M. and P.M. do not appear as abbreviations in the book.
            Page forty-two records a route from 
                  Frankfort,
                            Kentucky
               , to 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, which includes deliveries at 
                        Newcastle
                     and Port William (later Carrollton) at the mouth of the Kentucky
                    River. Here Vevais is used in the index. Joh!: Jackson was again the successful bidder on
                    this route, Iiut the terms of the contract are omitted. The trip was made once each week, the mail
                    leaving 
                        Frankfort
                     at six in the forenoon on Sunday and reaching "Vevais" at four in the
                    afternoon of the following day.
            Page fifty-eight records a route for Indiana Territory which began at Hendersontown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , crossed 
                        Illinois
                     and ran on into 
                        Missouri
                     Territory. The route extended from Hendersontown, by way of the Ohio
                    River, to Shaw-neetown, and through U.S. Saline, Jordon's, Big Muddy, Little
                    Muddy, Coxe's and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . The term of this contract mas for a part of one year only, April 1, 1814, to Dec. 31,
                    lb'14, the consideration being $375. Page seventy lists the rouie from 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , through 
                        Prairie
                     du Roche, St. Phillip, Harrisonville, Herculaneum, Cahokia, 
                        St. Louis
                     and on to St. Charles. J. McArthur was the successful bidder for this route.
            Up the valley of the Whitewater, then an outpost of wesiern civilization, ran a mail route, as
                    reported on page seventy-five, from the river through 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     by way of Allen's Ferry and 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Salisbury
                    . William Hendricks was awarded the contract on this route and received  $75 as the consideration. The term of the contract was from
                    Jan. 1, 1814, to Dec. 31, 1817. Nothing indicates whether the consideration was for the quarter or
                    the year. The trip required something over one day, leaving 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on Friday forenoon and arriving at the youthful seat of Justice of 
                        Wayne county
                     the following afternoon.
            Perhaps the most important mail route at this period was that from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , passing through New 
                        Albany
                    . The trip required from Monday morning until Thursday afternoon, going west, and from
                    Thursday afternoon to Sunday afternoon on the return trip. William B. Gamble was awarded this route,
                    with the amount of $150 written down opposite his name, presumed to be for the quarter.
                    For weekly service to the Saline from 
                        Vincennes
                    , Ab Westfall received $100 per quarter. The route lay through
                            
                  Columbia, Princeton
               , and Miller's Ferry.
            It must be remembered that in Indiana at that time there were only sixteen regularly established post
                    offices (1815) with 609 miles of post roads. The "nett amount of postage" which
                    was collected (stamps were not used at this time) totalled $542.63 and the rates were
                    much higher than now. The total cost for the transportation of the mail for Indiana during the year
                    of 1815 was $987.50.
            This was just at the time when the territory and state experienced a rapid expansion, following the
                    War of 1812. During the next few years of the expansion of the mail service, the attempt was made to
                    keep pace with the growth in population. By January 1, 1824, there was a large number of routes
                    recorded, but the Route-Book which has been preserved lists only the routes and their numbers
                    without specifying the terms of the contracts or the names of the contractors. The routes for
                    Indiana were assigned numbers in the three hundred block. Thus, route No. 350 ran from Vernon
                    through 
                  Geneva, Columbus
               , Edinburg and 
                        Franklin
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a distance of seventy-five miles. Route No. 344 ran from 
                  Bedford, Kentucky
               , to 
                  Milton, Kentucky
               , thence to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and through Vernon, 
                  Paris,
                            Lexington
               , New 
                        London
                     and across the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Bedford
                     again, a distance of eighty-one miles. Route No. 364 began at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , thence to 
                        Georgetown
                    , Harrison (
                        Ohio
                    ), New Trenton, Brook-ville, 
                  Connersville, Centerville
               ,
                    Jacksonburg, and Smith's to Winchester, Indiana. Route No. 351 ran from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                     through Vaughn's, Napoleon, 
                        Greensburg
                     and 
                        Shelby
                     (ville) to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a distance of ninety miles. Route No. 347 ran from 
                        Louisville
                    , by way of New 
                        Albany
                    , Corydon, Fredonia, 
                  Troy, Rockport
               , Boonville and 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Princeton
                    , a distance of one hundred sixty-five miles. No. 349 ran from 
                        Indianapolis
                     through Martinsville, 
                        Spencer
                    , and 
                        Burlington
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , a distance of one hundred three miles. Some of the routes served certain places as the
                    mail was carried in one direction and different places on the return. Route No. 352 from 
                        Salem
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                     included Bono and Palestine on the outgoing trip and Hindostan and Spicy Valley on the
                    way back. 
                        Mount Vernon
                     was served on Route No. 356, on the way out and Harmonie (
                        New Harmony
                    ) on the return, the route extending from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    . This route included also 
                        Princeton
                    , Ewingsville, Cynthianna, 
                        Springfield
                     and Mount of the 
                        Wabash
                     (not a P.O.).
            The period under consideration was, of course, one in which the population of the state was
                    increasing rapidly and the postal service was attempting to keep pace. The directory for 1811
                    includes for Indiana territory six offices2 while the directory for 1817 lists
                    thirty-four offices.3
            
            By 1830 it is reported that the time from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , a distance of one hundred twenty-four miles, was covered in thirty-four hours. 
                        Vincennes
                     was a center for distribution of mail and mail left that place for 
                        St. Louis
                     two hours after arrival from 
                        Louisville
                    . The one hundred seventy miles was covered in forty-six hours. On December 23, 1828, a
                    resolution was introduced in the National House under the heading "Application of Indiana
                    for New Mail Routes". The resolution stated that "because of the unparalleled
                    increase in population and business of the state and because of the necessity of prompt means of
                    correspondence with the General government and commercial centers… a direct mail stage
                    route upon the located line of the 
                  
                     2 The list of offices and postmasters for 1811: Corydon. Spier 
                                Spencer
                            : Emerson-ville, Jesse Emerson; Jeffersonville, James Lemon; Laurenceburg, James
                            Dill ; 
                                Vevay
                            , John F. Dufour; 
                                Vincennes
                            , General W. Johnston.
                  
                     3 The list of post offices for 1817: Allens' Ferry, 
                                Bath
                            . 
                                Bethlehem
                            . 
                        Charleston, Columbia
                     . Corydon. Emersonville. Flemings, 
                                Georgetown
                            , Greenville. Harmonie, 
                                Hartford
                            . Hazelton's Ferry, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Laurenceburg. Leveston's, 
                        Lexington, Madison
                     ,
                            Montgomeryville, Nanceville, New 
                                Albany
                            , New Natchez. New Trenton. Nicholl's Inn, Princton. Provine, Rising
                            Sun, 
                        Salem, Salisbury
                     , Smockville. Valonia, 
                                Vevay
                            . 
                                Vincennes
                            . White Oak Springs (Petersburg). BY 1837. the number of post offices in Indiana
                            had increased to one hundred thirty-five.
               
                     National road, thence through Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to 
                        Missouri
                    ," should be established.
            The pages of the Route-Book which includes the entries for the mail service in Indiana from 1834 to
                    1838 give much more complete information than earlier records, and contain the mode of
                    transportation and often the names of all the bidders for carrying the mail over a route. The routes
                    are numbered in the 3,000 block. Route No. 3,017 ran from 
                        Lafayette
                    , by way of Battleground, Americus, Delphi, Tip-tonsport, Lewisburg, Peru, Treaty
                    Ground, Largo, Panes (?) Springs, 
                        Huntington
                     and Aboitre (?) to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , a distance of one hundred nineteen miles. The contractor was John R. Merritt and the
                    consideration $1400. No. 3,018 ran from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by way of Kendallville, Marcy, Mongoguin-ong, Lima and Scott to White Pigeon (
                        Michigan
                    ), a distance of seventy miles and back. William Suttonfield was the contractor with
                    $499 the consideration named in the contract.
            Route No. 3,025 ran from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the mail being transported twice a week, in stages from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Brookville
                    , and three times a week, in stages, from Brook-ville to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Abner McCarty received $1200 for the performance of this duty. The towns
                    along this route that received mail from these stages were. Abington, 
                        Brownsville
                    , Liberty, Dunlapsville, 
                  Fairfield,
                            Brookville
               , Cedar Grove, New Trenton,
                    Harrison (
                        Ohio
                    ), Clark's Store, Miami and Cheviot. The total distance was seventy-six and
                    one-half miles with the Route-Book showing the distance between each town to the next. 
                        Brownsville
                    , Union county, to Liberty is shown as four and one-half miles; Liberty to Dunlapsville,
                    four and one-half miles, and so on along the route.
            Many notes are found written on the pages, concerning correspondence with the various offices. Thus
                    an entry: postmaster at 
                        Madison
                    , Ia. [Ind.] reports under date of 30 Aug 37 that Mr Brisben, the contractor is absent
                    in La and that he has employed James Wilson to carry the mail;" "Sept. 6, 1837 the
                    PM General approves the above arrangement and directs that a contract be made with Wilson for the
                    residue of the term viz till Jany 1838;" "1837 Aug 25. The PM General directed the
                    contractor to supply Republican on return trip omitting Ramsey;" "1 March 1837,
                    the PM General directs that 4 additional weekly mails be carried between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , 70 miles at pro raia of  $1,674 per
                    annum under condition that the mail be carried in 4 horse post coaches." An additional
                    entry under date of Aug 24, 1837, certifies that "under date of 11 Aug 37 the above order
                    was complied with on the 24 April 37." Route 3,037, was awarded to Cyrus and Jordon of 
                        Logansport
                     for a total consideration of $4,436 (which included the additional
                    compensation mentioned in a later note) and was transported three times a week in stages. The route
                    served the following towns from 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Augusta, Eagle Village, Northfield, Kirk's Crass Roads, 
                        Michigantown
                    , Middle-fork, 
                        Burlington
                    , Wild Cat, Deer Creek, 
                        Logansport
                    , Metea, 
                        Rochester
                    , Chippewa, Sidney, 
                  Plymouth,
                            South Bend
               , Olive (discontinued) and Terre
                    Coupee. The total distance, both ways, was one hundred fifty-two and one-half miles.
            Route No. 3,031 ran from 
                        Richmond
                     to Peru, the contract being let to L. R. Brownell for an annual consideration of
                    $340. The route included Greenfork, Economy, Palmyra, Blountsville, Muncytown, Cranberry,
                    Greenberry and 
                        Marion
                    , a distance of one hundred seven and one-half miles. A note on this page, under date of
                    Aug. 31, 1837, states that "the PMs of 
                        Richmond
                     and Peru certified that the 2nd weekly mail commenced on the 27th day of June,
                    1836." Over routes from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Madison
                     and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     three weekly trips were made in four-horse post-coaches. James H. Wallace & Co.
                    received $1893 yearly compensation for carrying the mails over the 
                        Madison
                     route which included Greenwood, 
                        Franklin
                    , Edinburg, Woodruff (supplied alternately) 
                        Columbus
                    , Scipio, Vernon, 
                        Lancaster
                     and Wirt. James Jones & Co. covered the one hundred thirteen miles three times
                    each week for a compensation of $2,000 per annum on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     route. The revenue from passengers and packages on these stage routes no doubt
                    supplemented the receipts from the transportation of the mails.
            There were many short routes on which contracts were let. John Boner of Vernon received
                    $25 per annum for service on a six-mile route, from 
                        Milton
                     in 
                        Wayne county
                     to Jacksonburgh in the same county. Wesley Goodwin received $50 per annum
                    for his weekly trips from 
                        New Castle
                     to 
                        Milton
                    . There must have been more spirited bidding on some routes than others. Route No.
                    3,032, eighty-three miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Lafrtyette netted the contractor only $398 per annum. This route ran by
                    the way of Piketon, Rodman's, 
                    
                        Lebanon
                    , Thorntown, 
                        Frankfort
                    , Jefferson, Prairieville, Huntersville and 
                        Dayton
                    . J. O. and S. M. Orchards, owners of the "Temperance Inn" at 
                        Bloomington
                    , were the contractors on the 
                        Louisville
                    -
                        Indianapolis
                     route. Many contractors operated several routes, John Boner of Vernon being the
                    successful bidder on six different routes. The Indiana Register (
                        Vevay
                    ) of—, 1816, carried the advertisement "Post-rider wanted,
                    immediately, a sober, steady person as a post rider." The contractor evidently sub-let
                    these routes as he saw fit.
            Annulment of the contracts and discontinuance of the route was one of the privileges of the
                    Postmaster General upon the payment of an extra month's allowance. An entry shows that an
                    eighty-mile route was discontinued on December 31, 1837, from Martinsville by way of 
                        Danville
                     and Alexander's Tavern to 
                        Lebanon
                    . The amounts of time scheduled for trips were being reduced all the time. Thus on Route
                    No. 3,051, the time from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     was reduced to sixteen hours, and the trip made all in one day, leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                     daily at 4:00 A.M. and reaching 
                        Lafayette
                     at 8:00 P.M.
            The period, July 1, 1839, to June 30, 1842, saw a still further increase in the number of contracts
                    for routes let. Various newspapers listed the several routes in detail under the caption
                    "Proposals for Carrying Mail of the 
                        United States
                    ." Several pages would be required to list them. A few were: Route No. 2,646, 
                        Bedford
                    , by way of Frazier's Store and Hamerslys Mills to Mount Pleasant, thirty-five
                    miles and back, once a week; No. 2,649, Defiance, 
                        Ohio
                    , to Mongoguining, seventy miles and back, once in two weeks; No. 2,653, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by way of 
                        Whitley
                     C. H. and 
                        Warsaw
                     to 
                        Plymouth
                    , seventy-five miles and back, once each week; No. 2,657, 
                        Greencastle
                     by way of New Maysville and North 
                        Salem
                     to Jamestown, twenty-eight miles and back once a week; No. 2,645, 
                        Bedford
                     by way of Elder John Shorts', 
                        Bloomfield
                     and Scaffold 
                        Prairie
                     to Bowling Green, sixty miles and back, once a week. Mail left 
                        Bedford
                     every Monday at 6:00 A.M. arriving at Bowling Green the next day at 6:00 P.M.; No.
                    2,665, 
                        Logansport
                     by way of Winamot, Sherwoods' Ferry and 
                        Valparaiso
                     to City West, eighty-five miles and back, once each week.
            
            Mail boats always played an important part in the commerce of river towns along the 
                        Ohio
                    . The contract for the period from January 1, 1838, and ending June 30, 1842, for the
                    transportation of the mail from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     was awarded to Johnson and Strader for $180,000. This also provided for mail
                    service to 
                        St. Louis
                     tri-weekly for the first year and daily mail service for the balance of term. Under the
                    terms of the contract, the down trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     was to be made in seven days, and the up trip in eleven days, or as much sooner as
                    practicable. A room for mail, provided with lock and key, was specified. The 
                        St. Louis
                     service was discontinued because "the community was entirely
                    indifferent" to it. The Government saved $20,000, a note, entered later, informs
                    us. A further saving of $75,000 was effected by discontinuing later the daily service on
                    the main line, with an additional saving of $2,000 "for carriers at the river
                    offices." Fines were imposed for delays of the mail and for failure to deliver at the
                    proper destination. There were other penalties, "exclusive of retrenchments already
                    stated," amounting to $10,670.
            On this river route, No. 3,330, 
                        Evansville
                     received a triweekly mail and 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana, received one delivery each week. Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    , received mail three times each week, while certain offices in 
                        Kentucky
                    , received weekly deliveries on this line. A specification in the contract required
                    "mails for tri-weekly offices to be sent in separate bag for each office—for the
                    once a week offices all in one bag." The iron lock was to be used, except on the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     bags which were to be secured by a brass lock.
            For some time on the stage lines through Indiana all the mail was placed in leather portmanteaux,
                    each one securely locked upon the beginning of the trip, each post master along the route unlocked
                    the large lock, took out the mail addressed to his office, placed the out-going mail in the bag, and
                    it went on with the stage to the next office. Post-riders on horseback carried the mail in
                    saddle-bags which they provided themselves. The penalty for mail robbery in this period was
                    whipping, twenty lashes for the first offense, and death for the second. One post rider on the 
                        Vincennes
                    -
                        St. Louis
                     route was robbed and killed but there is no record of this kind in Indiana.
            
            The entries in these Route-books as to the fines are of interest. Peter Beers was fined
                    $38 for "failure to carry the mail in stages" on the 
                        Richmond
                    -Winchester route. The contractor on the 
                        Evansville
                    -Fredonia route was fined $9 for "failure to observe schedule
                    days." John Clark on the Vin-cennes-
                        Louisville
                     route had $20 deducted from his pay for "leaving the great letter
                    mail at 
                        Louisville
                    " and again for "leaving newspaper bags at 
                        Louisville
                    ." Charles Waterhouse was fined $5 for "wet mail at Maumee,
                    O." on the Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    -Maumee route. A similar fine was imposed for "wet mail at 
                        Indianapolis
                    " on the contractor carrying the 
                        Logansport
                    -In-dianapolis mail. A fine was remitted "in consideration of the difficulties
                    occasioned by the construction of the National Road and the interruptions of the Ferry."
                    Still another fine was imposed because "way mail was included in the large mail."
                    A fine was imposed on John L. Smith of the 
                        Louisville
                    -Fredonia route, the amount being $100 for reducing service from stages to
                    horses", but this fine was later "remitted, the contractor having the privilege by
                    the terms of the contract."
            The first railroad reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1847 and shortly after that date came the beginning of mail transportation by
                    railway trains. However, during the eighteen-fifties, many contracts were let along stage and horse
                    routes which served as feeders to the railroad service. As an example, in a list of mail routes in
                    Indiana published in 1851, on Route No. 3,964, mail was carried from 
                        Salem
                     on Tuesdays and Saturdays by way of Walunt Ridge, 
                        Cortland
                    , Millport, 
                        Val
                    -onia, Brownstown, Payntersville, Rockford and Reddington to Scipio. The last town was
                    located on the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad. Mail coming down the river to 
                        Madison
                    , was carried by rail to Scipio and then along stage lines to other points. This
                    arrangement was common until the time of the Civil War, after which, the old routes served by horses
                    passed out in Indiana.
         
         
         
            Educational Program of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Movement
            ROSS F. LOCKRIDGE
            
            Although the main feature of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Movement is a very practical work of preserving and restoring some plain, old
                    buildings, yet the educational features attending it, as provided for in the Memorial Act, are
                    somewhat outstanding. Since the one-mill levy for the memorial is not fully available until July 1,
                    1940, the work on the buildings is beginning modestly with the restoration of the Tavern only. This
                    is the structure which was known as Rappite Community House No. 3.
            In the meantime, the educational program is getting under way. The first of a characteristic type of
                    educational projects was launched with encouraging success on Tuesday, May 16th, 1939, in the form
                    of a Say-Sistaire Shell Hunt. Special provision was made for this project in Section 5, of the
                    Legislative Act, which reads in part as follows: 
                        It shall be the duty of the director of the commission, by and with the approval of the
                            commission to institute programs and projects of an educational, recreational, patriotic and
                            cultural nature such as may be found necessary and feasible to restore the working system of
                            the "Adventure in Happiness" of Robert Owen's "New Moral
                            World", such as: forums, lyceums, balls, festivals, and public astronomical
                            observations; shell hunts on the river, periodically conducted in memory of Thomas Say, the
                            master conchologist, and his charming wife, Lucy Sistaire….
                    
            
            It may be remarked that this particular provision of the bill elicited a bit of humorous comment in
                    and about the Legislature. The success of the experiment of May 16, 1939, proves, however, that it
                    was wise to include this provision. In addition to students and teachers from the 
                        New Harmony
                     schools, this program was attended by eighty students and eight teachers, from seven
                    other leading high schools of southern Indiana—
                        Evansville
                     two schools, 
                        Bloomington
                     two, 
                        Mt. Vernon
                     one, 
                        Bedford
                     one, and 
                        Vincennes
                     one. These were picked students and picked teachers and they entered into the project
                    with extraordinary appreciation of its merits. They assembled at ten o'clock at the river
                    front of the historic Roadside-Riverside Park which is just ready for landscaping.
            
            The program of the day opened with a brief historical recital of the main events connected with our
                    historic 
                        Wabash
                    , including a somewhat vivid word panorama of famous craft that passed this place before
                    the coming of the "Boatload of Knowledge" in 1826. The entire assembly was then
                    divided into three groups for the purpose of exploring three different sand-bars. Two of these bars
                    were across the river on the 
                        Illinois
                     side, one some three miles up stream, the other about the same distance down stream and
                    just below the Old Dam. The third sand-bar is in plain sight from the 
                        New Harmony
                     ferry on the Indiana side. The students were about equally divided between boys and
                    girls and the supervised groups were arranged in the same way. Care was taken to have each school
                    represented in each of the three groups.
            Those who went to the 
                        Illinois
                     side were carefully conveyed across the river in motor boats. It is needless to say
                    that the participants derived much pleasure out of the expedition, notwithstanding some wet feet and
                    "sand in socks".
            Dr. Fernandus Payne, Dean of the Graduate School of Indiana University and Head of the Department of
                    Zoology, supervised the scientific phases of the expedition. He entered very heartily into all of
                    the activities of the day and did some original searching for himself in the sandy beach just below
                    the Old Dam.
            The group returned from the hunt at about one in the afternoon. Having consumed their lunch with real
                    zest and enjoyment, they re-convened on the charming lawn of the Old Fauntleroy Home. The extensive
                    collections of shells which they had gathered were there assembled, and Dr. Payne gave a very
                    instructive and interesting discussion covering the primary scientific aspects of the project.
            It will be seen that the program as a whole constituted a genuine recreation of history. The story of
                    Thomas Say and Lucy Sistaire is one of the most delightful romances of the Owenite
                    "Adventure in Happiness." Thomas was a very handsome and bashful young bachelor
                    and Lucy, as characterized by the Duke of Saxe-Weimar, was the "handsomest and most
                    polished of the female world" of 
                        New Harmony
                    . Their activity represents one of the most cherished contributions which that
                    "Adventure" gave to the field of science  and
                    to the general progress of education. The couple met for the first time as they journeyed with
                    others of the "Boatload of Knowledge". The friendship formed during that
                    interesting voyage ripened quickly into a real love affair and a sudden elopment. They made their
                    home in several different places in 
                        New Harmony
                    —among them, the Fauntleroy Home.
            It was here in 
                        New Harmony
                     that Say wrote his master treatise, The American Conchology, in which
                    he was ably assisted by his charming wife. Together they explored the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     on both sides, for many miles, both up and down the river in the vicinity of 
                        New Harmony
                     searching for shells of every kind. Say classified, described and identified the
                    specimens found and Lucy painted and illustrated them. It was a labor of love as well as of science.
            Thomas Say died in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1834. His tomb is a picturesque mound on the lawn of the Rapp-Maclure place, where
                    he died. It has been a Mecca for scientists for more than a century and it was looked upon with much
                    interest by the young high school students present on May 16, 1939, just after they had heard the
                    intimate story of the scientist's life and career.
            Say's young wife survived him, remaining a widow for more than fity years. She did not
                    continue to live in 
                        New Harmony
                    , but returned occasionally and was often heard to exclaim: "Oh, for another
                    successful shell hunt on the river".
            The facts here recited make clear the significance of such a project as this shell hunt instituted by
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial. It was more than a laboratory exercise in science and history. It introduced
                    the Wabash River, one of the historic features of 
                        New Harmony
                    ; it was an exhiliarting contact with nature and a delightful cultivation of romantic
                    sense and true historic consciousness; it was a genuine enrichment of the teaching of history
                    through the purposeful recreation of historic activities.
            It should be mentioned, perhaps, that a characteristic feature of the program was a short informal
                    dance in the old Dance Hall of Rappite Community House No. 2—a true historical reminder
                    of a favorite activity of the "Adventure in Happiness".
            
            It is needless to say that the success of this program was very gratifying. The splendid cooperation
                    offered by various high schools and the expert assistance rendered by Indiana University through the
                    service of Dean Payne, assures the future success of many kindred projects of similar nature.
            President Herman B Wells and State Superintendent Floyd I. McMurray are ex-officio members of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Commission and each is taking a deep personal and professional interest in the
                    movement, especially in the educational features. The Memorial Act provides that
                    "Arrangements may be made with one or more higher institutions of learning in Indiana or
                    with individual members of faculties thereof" for the promotion of the Memorial Movement.
                    As the program develops, leading members from the faculties of all colleges and universities in the
                    state will participate in different special features from time to time. The Say-Sistaire Shell Hunt
                    may be considered as the significant beginning of a four year schedule and a fixed annual feature of
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Movement.
            DEDICATION OF TABLET
            At 
                        New Harmony
                     on Sunday afternoon, June 25, 1939, a beautiful bronze tablet was dedicated to the
                    memory of James Runcie, D. D., and his wife, Constance Owen Fauntle-roy Runcie. The Rev. Runcie was
                    one of the early resident ministers of 
                        New Harmony
                    . Mrs. Runcie was a daughter of Robert Fauntleroy and Jane Dale Owen. She was married in
                    St. Stephen's Church in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The Rev. Runcie went first to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and then to 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               . Both are buried in that city. The
                    tablet to the memory of the minister and his wife was erected in the Maple Hill Cemetery on the
                    Owen-Fauntleroy lot. The erection of the tablet was made possible by a daughter of the Rev. and Mrs.
                    Runcie, Mrs. E. St. John Marshall. Fitting and impressive ceremonies under the direction of Miss
                    Mary Emily Fauntleroy were held.1
            
            
               
                  1 Miss Fauntleroy kindly sent clippings from the 
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Times of June 23 and 30. relative ta the dedication of the tablet to the
                        Runcie family.—Editor.
               
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The preservation of historic structures and the erection of historical markers in Indiana demand more
                    systematic consideration than has been given. From time to time persons interested in some
                    particular place approach the Historical Society with the expectation that the Society will acquire
                    and develop it. The Society, however, has no funds for this purpose and no staff for doing the work
                    which would be involved. In the eastern states, historical and antiquarian societies, hereditary
                    patriotic organizations, or groups organized for the special purpose, are the agencies which usually
                    undertake this responsibility.
            Occasionally in this state, various historical societies and clubs have served the useful function of
                    holding historic houses until they could be taken over by some governmental office. Thus the Lanier
                    House was very appropriately given by the late Charles D. Lanier to the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Historical Society which kept it until the state consented to accept and restore it.
                    The Henry Lane home in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was bought by the 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society, or perhaps better, was presented to it, but the Society finding
                    itself unable to carry and maintain Lane Place, it was finally acquired by the city of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and, I understand, is leased to the Society for maintenance. The Fauntleroy home in 
                        New Harmony
                     was deeded to the Indiana Federation of Clubs and has been maintained by it up to the
                    present time, with the prospect, at least, of being merged with the state 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial.
            In Indiana the state and local governments usually have to be appealed to for permanent care of
                    memorials. Since the creation in 1919 of the State Department of Conservation, it has gradually
                    become the accepted agency for the permanent preservation and maintenance of historic sites and
                    buildings which are of state-wide or national significance. Sites and buildings which, prior to that
                    time, belonged to the state and had been controlled by a special commission or other officers, have
                    been transferred to that department. The 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battleground, the old State House at Corydon (which had been for many years the 
                        Harrison County
                     Courthouse), and the Nancy Hanks Lincoln burial ground, are  illustrations. The Lanier Home, when it was accepted by the state in
                    1925, was at once put in charge of the Department of Conservation. The General Assembly of Indiana
                    and the national Congress, in creating the George Rogers Clark memorial commissions, provided that
                    when completed the memorial should be maintained by the state of Indiana, and the former body
                    specifically allotted it to the Department of Conservation. The same provision is contained in the
                    Act of the present General Assembly providing for the 
                        New Harmony
                     memorial.
            Thus far, however, the Department of Conservation has not taken the initiative in selecting the sites
                    and buildings to be developed as historical memorials, nor has it brought about their acquisition by
                    the state. This, so far as the state is concerned, has been left to chance; that is to say, it
                    depends on some person or organization to develop enough enthusiasm, interest and resources to
                    induce the General Assembly to provide for the creation of a memorial for some individual or some
                    movement. When such is forthcoming, a memorial is created. Otherwise, the great man or the movement
                    concerned remains without material memorial and the historic building goes to pieces or passes into
                    private use. Needless to say, the success of memorial movements is not in proporition to their
                    merits, but in proportion to the pressure developed by their proponents. It would be ungracious to
                    specify memorials of lesser importance which have been exploited, but certainly it must be admitted
                    that some historical memorials in Indiana are not of as great significance as the site of Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's fort in the city which bears his name, or the La Salle portage in 
                        South Bend
                    . Even in regard to markers requested by the various counties from the Historical
                    Markers Project of the Works Progress Administration, all too often the most significant locations
                    in the several counties are neglected in favor of less important points which are of especial
                    interest to some one or two individuals.
            In addition to the site of Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's fort at the head of the Maumee River (the erection of
                    which signalized the "pacification" of the Indians of the Old Northwest) and the
                    La Salle Portage in 
                        South Bend
                    , anyone familiar with the state could probably suggest a dozen or more places which
                    might well be made state memorials  and which are now falling
                    into decay, or in some other way suffering serious damage to their historical value. To start the
                    reader on such a list, one might mention the dam and aqueduct of the old Whitewater Canal at
                    Metamora, the old Bailly trading post and residence in 
                        Porter County
                    , pioneer mills, such as Beck's in 
                        Washington County
                    , Kill-buck Mill on Killbuck Creek, in 
                        Madison County
                    , and the site of Fort Harrison (War of 1812) in 
                        Vigo County
                    . At least two of the structures mentioned are likely to collapse, or to be otherwise
                    ruined for historical and educational purposes unless something is done within the present year.
            Already destroyed beyond repair or restoration are many of the earthworks left by the mound
                    builders—the oldest human records in Indiana—such as those at Winchester in 
                        Randolph County
                    . The most imposing pre-historic earthworks in the state (among them the largest single
                    mound in Indiana), the Angel Mounds, near 
                        Evansville
                    , have been saved only by the generosity of a few individuals and the exertions of the
                    Indiana Historical Society.
            It would therefore seem timely for the Indiana Historical Society, the county historical societies,
                    the Historical Bureau, and the Department of Conservation, to work together for the formulation of
                    some system by which the proper authorities, state, county, or city, could reasonably be expected to
                    take over and properly develop historic sites and structures, in succession, as demanded by their
                    importance and the urgency for action. Perhaps the committee of the Historical Society on historic
                    markers and memorials might take the lead. That committee for 1939 consists of Herbert W. Foltz, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; Louis A. Warren, Charles M. Niezer, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; Abram Simmons, Bluffton; Lorenz G. Schumm, Ray R. Addington, 
                        La Porte
                    ; Harry Johnson, 
                        Valparaiso
                    ; Paul H. Schmidt, 
                        Evansville
                    ; Francis 
                        Van
                     Natter, Mrs. Harry T. Watts, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; Julie Le Clerc 
                  Knox, Vevay
               .
            It is not out of place here to pay tribute to those individuals who recently, by their own efforts,
                    have done great public service in preserving and restoring historic buildings. The work of Bernard
                    Batty and the Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Foundation in obtaining the Benjamin Harrison home in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and making it a semi-public historic memorial,  and
                    the work of Mr. and Mrs. Eli Lilly, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in the development along historical lines of the William Conner home in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , are notable examples.
         
         
            A JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY BIBLIOGRAPHY
            The Indiana Historical Society has entered the field of bibliography, and work has commenced on its
                    first task: a bibliography study of James Whitcomb Riley. Much source material may be found in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but it is hoped that librarians elsewhere, as well as collectors and other interested
                    persons, may be able to add information regarding the ephemeral bits of Rileyana. If you have
                    pamphlets or broadsides by or about Riley and will send a description of them, such helpful interest
                    will be greatly appreciated.
            A bibliographical check-list of the writings of all Indiana authors, in all fields, is also under
                    way. By "Indiana author" is meant any writer born in Indiana, or definitely
                    identified with the state. Aimed at accuracy and completeness, it will be a useful historical as
                    well as bibliographical contribution. It is appropriate that the state's historical society
                    should serve as a final clearing-house for information regarding the state's authors.
            The task of compilation is under the direction of Mr. Anthony J. Russo, with Mrs. Russo
                    collaborating. The work is directed by a special committee consisting of Mr. J. K. Lilly, Jr.,
                    chairman, Mr. Christopher B. Coleman, Mr. Benjamin D. Hitz and Mr. Albert L. Rabb. Communications
                    should be addressed to Mr. Russo, in care The Indiana Historical Society, Indiana State Library
                    Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum: DOES HISTORY HAVE MEANING?
            J. HARLEY NICHOLS
            
            The answer to the above question will depend on what is understood by the word meaning. Few thoughtful students of the subject would care to defend the thesis that history
                    has meaning in the sense that the cause of events has been determined by an all-wise creator with
                    the idea of achieving a definite purpose such as the perfection of Christianity, the development of
                    democracy, or the supremacy of the German nation.
            In another sense of the word, history does have meaning, or perhaps it would be better to say that
                    history is meaning. From this point of view, history might be defined as a racial
                    experience, and, in the fullest sense of the word, it would include all that man has ever thought or
                    done together with those things which have influenced his thought and his action.
            The correctness of this view once admitted, no one could entertain any doubt as to the value of
                    history. Since the wisdom of an individual depends in large measure on the volume of the experience
                    which he has acquired, the study of history will be regarded as a means par
                    excellence of obtaining wisdom. This will be true because, in addition to his own personal
                    experience, the student of history will have a great reservoir of racial experience.
            An excellent example of the value of history is seen in connection with the Federal Convention. James 
                        Madison
                     was not the most brilliant member of that very able body. In this respect, he was
                    easily surpassed by Hamilton. In personal experience he was excelled by Franklin, 
                        Washington
                     and others. It was his insight into history that enabled the young Virginian to
                    contribute enough to the making of the constitution to merit the appellation "Father of the
                    Constitution."
            The practical value of history once thoroughly realized, the problem of the historian will be the
                    development of means and methods for the extraction of its meaning. To be the least successful in
                    this undertaking, he must renounce the tendency to see in history little but old wives'
                    tales and enter  resolutely upon a quest for the truth. This
                    will be done not with the idea of debunking history, but in the spirit of the natural scientist,
                    who, when he once came to understand that natural phenomena take place in obedience to law,
                    abandoned myths as an explanation of the natural world and undertook the discovery of those laws.
            In entering upon this course, the historian will not be on wholly uncharted seas. He will have the
                    examples of not a few historians, notable among whom was Frederick Jackson Turner whose study of the
                    influence of the frontier has been so serviceable in interpreting American history. Despite many
                    examples to the contrary, however, the searchlight of the past has been but feebly turned on the
                    problems of the present and the suspicion lurks that many who have spent years in the study of
                    history know little more concerning the causes of present world chaos than those who have made no
                    extended study of the past.
            Failure to derive meaning from history may be due to a variety of causes. Students may have a false
                    conception of the subject. Too often it is approached as a collection of "events"
                    which have "happened." It is not seen that it is the totality of past experience
                    and, therefore, like the experience of an individual, possesses continuity and unity; that to break
                    it up into fragments, convenient as it may be for purposes of study, does violence to its nature as
                    vivisection does violence to the nature of an animal.
            Again failure to obtain an insight into the subject may be due to improper methods of study. The
                    student doesn't always see that, in the study of history as in the study of mathematics,
                    the mind must be used primarily as a workshop and only secondarily as a storehouse, that to put his
                    principal reliance on memory is to encumber rather than to facilitate his endeavor. He may pass his
                    examination more easily, but he will know less history, on each succeeding day thereafter.
            Finally, failure to realize the possibilities of history may be due to a lack of proper mental
                    equipment. To penetrate its secrets, the student should have a working knowledge of biology,
                    psychology, sociology, economics, geology and geography. To see the truth of this statement one need
                    only reflect on the extent of the historical influence of oil deposits,  a mountain range, the racial characteristics of the American Indian, or
                    the mind of Napoleon.
            Thus oriented and equipped, let the student place himself in the current of history at some place and
                    time, as for example in Europe in the sixteenth century and study the effect of some well-known
                    event, such as the discovery of America, in much the same way as a chemist studies a chemical
                    reaction, the geologist the formation of the earth, or as a Turner studies the influence of the
                    frontier. Would he not see strange forces—strange to the people of the period
                    —breaking up long established customs and modes of life and teiring and rending at
                    institutions? Would not a study of these forces throw a flood of light on such historical phenomena
                    as the decay of feudalism, the Protestant revolt, the growth of the national state, or the
                    development of constitutional government? The influence of the rise of the general price level,
                    alone, due to the turning loose in the channels of trade of vast quantities of gold and silver found
                    in America was surely tremendous. Need we be surprised if many a man, affected by this force and yet
                    not understanding it, became fighting mad and willing to go to war on the pretext that seemed most
                    plausible at the moment?
            "Not different from what we are accustomed to," some may say. Others will dismiss
                    the matter as fantastic and vain imagining. However that may be, it seems to the present writer that
                    no one has so good an opportunity to be of service to a bewildered world as the historian. One
                    gropes about in the darkness of a room, but moves with ease and dispatch when the light is turned
                    on. Certainly conditions are such that we need all the light we can get, and never was there less
                    chance of finding a solution to prevailing problems by fumbling around in the darkness. Are our eyes
                    so accustomed to shadows that they cannot endure the light of history?
         
         
         
            Documents: SOME LETTERS TO WILLIAM PLUMER
            LYNN W. TURNER
            
            The following excerpts are from letters found in the Plumer Collection in the State Library at
                    Concord, 
                        New Hampshire
                    . They are offered as interesting comments on the West of 1816, seen through Yankee
                    eyes. These letters were destined for William Plumer, who was soon to become Republican governor of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , although they are addressed to his son, who was acting somewhat in the capacity of his
                    father's secretary, at the time.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                  Brook Court House 
                                    Virginia
                                 
                                 1
                              
                           
                                    January 5, 1816.
                                
                        William Plumer, Jr.
                        Epping, N. H.
                        I am not so enraptured with this country as the people of New 
                                        England
                                     generally are who have not seen it—and Emigrants from N.E.
                                    will be much disappointed—I am told there are many who wish they had
                                    never come but know not how to get back—There are some richer lands here
                                    than I have ever before seen—the bottom Intervales on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    —but they bear a higher price than any lands in N.H. And
                                    uncultivated lands cannot be obtained at so low a price as they can either in N.H.
                                    or the Prv. of M. [
                                        Maine
                                    ]2. The only advantage they have is in raising
                                    Indian corn and wheat—but it takes a bushel of wheat to buy a pound of
                                    loaf sugar and a bushel of corn to buy a pound of brown. My lands in N.H. and 
                                        Maine
                                     have risen in my estimation an hundred percent since I came
                                    here.—I believe the tide of emigration will stop—probably
                                    there may be a reflux—The U.S. lands not entered upon are generally of
                                    little value except those remote in the Indiana and 
                                        Illinois
                                     Territories—The good lands are in the hands of Speculators
                                    of which Class of Gentlemen the State of 
                                        Ohio
                                     abounds. These have had the address to turn the brains of the New
                                    Englanders and others wanting to make estates for themselves and families and they
                                    must pay these gentlemen for the lands they get, a round price—say from
                                    seven to fifteen—and in some cases twenty-five dollars per
                                    acre—The Country is very rough and broken—much waste land and
                                    there are no good roads—I think it unhealthy—Should you wish a
                                    more 
                              
                                 1 William Plumer, Jr., was the eldest son of William
                                            Plumer. the governor. At this time he was reading law in his
                                            father's office in Epping. after having graduated from 
                                                Harvard
                                             in 1809. He was later a Congressman and a useful public servant
                                            in 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            . Livermore was writing to the elder Plumer partly in connection
                                            with legal questions regarding his land holdings in New Hamdire.
                              
                                 2
                                            
                                                Maine
                                             was a part of 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             until 1820. In the early part of the nineteenth century, it was
                                            a real competitor of the West for New 
                                                England
                                             colonists.
                           
                                     particular description of the Country I may be
                                    able to give it to you after further examination.
                        
                                    Edward St. Loe Livermores
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                  Brook Court House 
                                    Virginia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 17, 1816>
                                
                        William Plumer, Jr.
                        Epping, N. H
                        I am persuaded that the rage for emigration will abate when the people of N.E. get
                                    fully appraised of the difficulties they have to encounter and the true nature and
                                    price of the lands in this country—I do not wonder at the people of 
                                        Connecticut
                                     and south of there migrating—they have not lands to purchase
                                    in their own States—but the people of N.H. and Mass. who can buy such
                                    lands in the District of 
                                        Maine
                                     are fools to come here for anything they can get.
                        At this time Indiana is the rage—that is the land of
                                    promise—just as 
                                        Ohio
                                     was formerly—but 
                                        Ohio
                                     being now thoroughly explored is found not to be the
                                    land—but Indiana being more distant and few knowing anything about it,
                                    has undoubtedly gotten the Garden of Eden in its bowels which has been lost ever
                                    since the flood—But when Indiana is settled and they don't find
                                    the spot—then 
                                        Illinois
                                     or 
                                        Mississippi
                                     territory or 
                                        Louisiana
                                     or some other place will contain it—I have seen a man since
                                    I have been here—a brother of Capt. Morris of Berwick, who knows where it
                                    is—he has found it up the red river—and as I told him it was
                                    too far off for me to go and explore he could safely indulge in all the
                                    extravagances of description. But as I have been sady disappointed in 
                                        Ohio
                                     I shall suspend my opinion until I am able to gratify my curiosity by
                                    inspection or have otherwise better information. A man who has returned from Indiana
                                    where he has been assisting in surveying Lands which are! to be
                                    sold next summer—says there are some very excellent Lands which are
                                    expected to bring ten and twenty dollars per acre—but the tracts of good
                                    land are not extensive and the other lands of Indiana are similar to the lands in
                                    other places just as the men are—mere men and not angels. A gentleman of
                                    the City of 
                                        New York
                                     who was formerly in the—company— a farm in New
                                        Holland4—and there he says are the best lands in
                                    the world—and I believe him as well as all the others—at the
                                    same time think that while the people in Mass. and N.H. can so easily obtain lands
                                    at 
                              
                                 3 Edward St. Loe Livermore was in the sixth generation
                                            of a famous New 
                                                England
                                             family. the son of a 
                                                United States
                                             Senator and brother of the Chief Justice of 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            . He studied law with Theophilus Parsons of Newbury-port and
                                            practiced in Concord, Portsmouth, 
                                                Newburyport
                                             and 
                                                Boston
                                            . He also held responsible judicial officrs and represented
                                            Essex County in Congress. Shortly before writing this letter, at the age of
                                            fifty-four. he had moved to the frontier with a family of ten children. The
                                            brood was increased by one in June, 1816. Livermore spent some time in 
                                                Zanesville
                                            , Ohi—somewhat unhappily if we may judge by these
                                            letters, and returned to Tewksbury where he died in 1832. It was after he
                                            left 
                                                Ohio
                                             that he wrote these letters, and his references were not to
                                            lands now in West 
                                                Virginia
                                            , but mainly to 
                                                Ohio
                                             lands. His poor opinion of western land, expressed in these
                                            letters to a man of considerable importance in 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            , may have. been influenced by his own extensive speculations in
                                            land on the northern frontier. 
                                                Charlestown
                                             C. H., county seat of Brooke County, later became Wellsburg.
                                            This place is on the 
                                                Ohio
                                             about twelve miles above Wheeling.
                              
                                 4 The blanks indicate three words that are illegible
                                            in the original manuscript.
                           
                                     home where they are both acquainted with soil
                                    climate and productions they are great fools if they emigrate to any of these
                                    places.
                        
                                    Edward St. Loe Livermore
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charlestown
                                 , Indiana Territory
                           
                                    April 11, 1816
                                
                        William Plumer, Jr.
                        Epping, 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    
                        
                        The Emigration from the eastward into this Teritory this spring is
                                    prodigious—three hundred families have arrived at 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     in the course of the two past weeks but from some cause the settlers in
                                    this Territory are not so wealthy I believe as the settlers in either of the other Teritories—
                                        Charlestown
                                     (the place where I now reside—I keep a tavern) is a
                                    flourishing little village with several large brick Houses & seven or eight
                                    smaller ones with an Elligant Court House, offices, Market House, etc. etc. Three
                                    miles from this place a Capt. John Workes has undertaken and succeeded in digging
                                    & blasting a race through a sollid [sic] rock the length of which is ohe
                                    hundred & five yards, the height of the race is six feet, and its width four
                                    feet, by making a dam of two feet said works turnes the water of a large stream
                                    called fourteen mile creek & in passing the race gets 22 feet fall. No
                                    settled plan has yet been agreed upon for taking advantage of the
                                    water—Iron Works (parnous) Cotton Manufactures &c —are
                                    talked of—Iron ore is said to be found in abundance 12 miles from
                                    here…. This Country affords apples & Peaches in
                                    abundance—cider can be had at this time of the year at from four to five
                                    dollars per barrel and Apples at from $2.50 to $3 per barrel.
                        This Teritory is settled princibly [sic] by people from 
                                        North Carolina
                                    
                                    
                                        Virginia
                                     & Pensylvana some few from 
                                        Massachusetts
                                        Connecticut
                                     and 
                                        New York
                                    . The lands are very productive generally.
                        
                                    Stephen Rannay5
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5 Colonel Stephen Rannay had written to William Plumer on February 3,
                        1816, asking that the latter use his influence and exertions in procuring for the veteran a
                        small federal post in which to spend his declining years. Rannay claimed a total of sixteen
                        years military service in two wars. He was apparently a 
                            New Hampshire
                         emigrant to Indiana Territory. His letter was written as a letter of thanks after
                        William Plumer, Jr., had assured Rannay that the elder Plumer was active in Rannay's
                        behalf. It May be noted that the old soldier was not quite so literate a corresnondmt as the
                        ar;stocratie Livermore, bvt he s-emed able to appreciate the god qualities of the frontier more
                        keenly. 
                            Charlestown
                        , Indiana, is about fifteen miles, and almost north, from 
                            Jeffersonville
                        . The town is a short distance from the 
                            Ohio
                        . Charlatown was the county seat of 
                            Clark County
                         from 1810 to 1813, when 
                            Jeffersonville
                        , which had been the county seat from 1802 to 1810. supplanted its rival.
            
         
         
            A VISIT TO NEW HARMONY IN 1883 Letter of Edward Travers Cox
            The letter here reproduced from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of October 31, 1883, was written by Edward Travers COX while visiting 
                        New Harmony
                    .1 Mr. Cox was born on April 22, 1821, in 
                        Virginia
                    . His father moved to 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    
                  
                     1 This 
                                New Harmony
                             letter written by Mr. Cox was kindly brought to the ab tention of the editor by
                            Miss Esther U. MeNitt, Director of the Indiana History Division of the State Library.
               
                     in May, 1826, and his children attended the community school
                    conducted during the Owen regime.2 Edward Travers Cox learned the
                    watchmaker's trade, but became interested in geology. He became a collector of specimens of
                    natural history, working in conjunction with James Sampson. Mr. Cox described many of the fossils
                    found in the vicinity of 
                        New Harmony
                    , other parts of Indiana and in neighboring states, and he was associated with David
                    Dale Owen while making some of his surveys during 1859–1860. Mr. Cox became state
                    geologist for Indiana in 1869, and during his ten years in that office, conducted an extensive
                    survey in Indiana, publishing a series of ten reports in seven volumes. The descriptions of fossil
                    plants of North America included in these reports were written by Leo Lesquereaux, born in 
                        Switzerland
                    , and well known in Europe and America. He was a friend of Arnold Guyot and Louis
                        Agassiz.3 Among the assistants who worked for Mr. Cox were David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    , John M. Coulter, and Jacob Schneck. Mr. Cox traveled much over the 
                        United States
                     and Europe attending scientific meetings and searching for knowledge in his field. His
                    last work was done in the phosphate fields of 
                        Florida
                    . His was the distinction of discovering and revealing the value of the phosphates of 
                        Florida
                    .
            Mr. Cox died in 
                        Florida
                     in 1907, and is buried in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He married a daughter of James Sampson, the student of natural history who first
                    interested him in Geology. In an article of 1916, entitled "Development of Chemical Science
                    in Indiana," Prof. James H. Ransom of Purdue University said of Edward Travers Cox that he
                    was "not only a great geologist, but a great advertiser of the state's
                    resources." Professor Ransom further declared, that it was "probably true that the
                    analytical work done under the direction of Mr. Cox was the beginning of the earlier, if not the
                    more recent, prosperity for which the state [Indiana] has long been noted."
            John Collett, who accompanied Mr. Cox on his visit to 
                        New Harmony
                     in October, 1883, was also a noted geologist, who filled the office on state geologist
                    from 1881 to 1885. He had previously served as an assistant to Mr. Cox. While 
                  
                     2 Most of the facts relative to the career of Mr. Cox were compiled
                            for the editor by Miss Louise M. Husband, Director of the Library of the
                            Workingmen's Institute of 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                  
                     3 W. S. Blatchley, "A Century of Geolom in Indiana,"
                            Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1916). XXXII, 89–197. contains
                            considerable material relative to Messrs. Cox and Collett. See also James H. Ransom,
                            "Development of Chemical Science in Indiana," ibid.,
                            391, for an evaluation of the work of Mr. Cox.
               
                     in office he prepared valuable reports. He was born in 
                        Vermillion County
                     on January 26, 1828, and died in 
                        Indianapolis
                     March 15, 1899. He was graduated from 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1847. He served for a term in the state senate, beginning in 1871.3
            
            [The Cox Letter]
            AN OLD SETTLEMENT
            The Harmonist Colony At 
                        New Harmony
                     Prof. Cox Gives an Entertaining Description of It (Correspondence of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News) [1883]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                                        New Harmony
                                    , Ind., October 27 [1883]—Prof. John Collett and I arrived
                                    here last Tuesday evening. We found the journey from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , over the Vandalia line ta Greenup,4 and from
                                    thence over the Peoria, & 
                                        Decatur
                                     & 
                                        Evansville
                                     railway to 
                                        New Harmony
                                    , pleasant and interesting.5 Everybody knows that
                                    the Vandalia line is one of the best railroads in the union to travel on, it being
                                    an old and favorite route from the east, to the great west, and its gentlemanly
                                    officers well understand how to provide for the wants and comforts of their patrons.
                                    The P. D. & E. is a new road; the passenger trains leave Peoria every
                                    morning, after the arrival of the trains from the west, and arrive in 
                                        Evansville
                                     6 p.m.; leave 
                                        Evansville
                                     every morning for the west, and arrive at Greenup in time to make
                                    connection with the Vandalia express train for 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and 
                                        New York
                                    . The appointments of the P. D. & E. R. [R.] are equal to the
                                    best; the coaches are well finished and comfortable, the track is laid over an
                                    almost level country, which is for the most part prairie, and it is remarkably
                                    straight and without high grades. We traveled with good speed and reached our
                                    destination on time.
                        The next morning we were delighted to meet Mr. Jonathan Lenz, from Economy, Penn.,
                                    one of the trustees of the Society of Harmonists. Accompanying him was Judge Henry
                                    Hice, a friend and neighbor of the Harmonists, who lives at Beaver, Penn.6 From Mr. Lenn we obtained many interesting facts about the
                                    early settlement of this place and had the pleasure of visiting with him the scenes
                                    of his early childhood. Mr. Lenz is seventy-seven years old, is six feet and two
                                    inches high, of massive frame and has the appearance of being a remarkably strong
                                    and robust man. He walks with a quick and energetic step, has a pleasant, cheerful
                                    manner and a kind, familiar word for all. He cherishes the religion of his
                                    associates, and to judge from 
                              
                                 4 Greenup. 
                                                Illinois
                                            , is the county seat of 
                                                Cumberland County
                                            , and is located about forty-five miles from 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            .
                              
                                 5 This railway from Peoria to 
                                                Evansville
                                             passed through Greenup and 
                                                New Harmony
                                            . It crosses the 
                                                Wabash
                                             at Graysville, Ill.
                              
                                 6 Economy and Beaver are on the Ohio
                                            River in 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             below 
                                                Pittsburgh
                                            , which means that they are northwest of that city.
                           
                                     himself and others who have from time to time
                                    revisited their old home, their religion has served to make them not only good and
                                    true to themselves, but to win for them the good will and esteem of all with whom
                                    they have any business or social relations.
                        It will be remembered that George Rapp was the founder of the Harmonist society, and
                                    was their leader and preacher up to the time of his death, in 1847, at the good old
                                    age of ninety. After arriving in this country, from 
                                        Germany
                                    , they settled in Beaver county, 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , and built the town of Harmony [Harmonie], now known as "Old
                                    Harmony." In 1813, George Rapp went west to look for a location, where they
                                    could obtain large bodies of good agricultural land at a small cost, ample water
                                    power to propel the machinery for their manufactures, and a less rigorous and more
                                    genial climate.
                        He decided upon the site of this place, and in contradistinction [sic] to the first settlement called it Harmony [Harmonie]. He purchased from
                                    the general government 30,000 acres of land, and arrangements were made, at once, to
                                    clear away the forests, build houses, and cultivate the land. The first detachment
                                    of Harmonists arrived at Mc-Faden's landing, on the Ohio
                                    river, now called 
                                        Mt. Vernon
                                    , in October, 1814. From 200 to 300 in number the young and strong, both
                                    men and women, were left to cut a wagon road and travel on foot to the new location
                                    on the Wabash river, 15 miles from Mt. Vernon by land, and 60
                                    miles above the mouth of the Wabash river by water. The larger
                                    portion of the community continued in flat boats to the mouth of the
                                        Wabash river, and from thence up the stream in
                                    "keelboats." As soon as the party by land, of which Mr. Lenz, then
                                    a boy of seven years old, was one, reached the present town site, they commenced to
                                    make a camp of bushes. The land was covered with a magnificent forest of poplar,
                                    black-walnut, oak, hickory, etc. and a dense undergrowth of cane. The first house
                                    built now stands on the corner of Main and Tavern streets. It was long known as the
                                    German Tavern. No time was lost in providing log houses to shelter the whole
                                    community, which [sic] came as fast as the flatboats and keelboats could bring them,
                                    to the number of 600 or 700. Some meal and flour brought with them served as the
                                    principal food, and all their energies were directed to clearing land and having it
                                    ready for planting crops in the spring. The log-houses were without floors save the
                                    ground, and it was very difficult to obtain any plank. Shadrack Stallings, who lived
                                    on the 
                                        Princeton
                                     road, a few miles to the east, and Nero, a negro man he had brought
                                    with him from Carolina, cut them what plank they could with a whip-saw, and Mr.
                                    Rabb, father of John Rabb, who had a small saw mill on Black
                                    river, was enabled to supply them with some plank, but far from being
                                    enough to provide for the comfort of so many families. A saw mill was built by the
                                    Harmonists just above the upper bridge on Gresham's creek, and another on
                                    Rush creek, where it was crossed by the first on Lower 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                     road, and in time, lumber was obtained in sufficient quantities. The
                                    cut off, a large arm of the Wabash river, was cleared, about
                                    one and a half miles below the town and a fine four story frame grist mill, to
                                    contain four run of stone  was built. Attached
                                    to the grist mill there was a saw mill. The water power was' found ample,
                                    and was available for most of the year.
                        The actual necessities of the people were now in a great measure relieved but during
                                    the first years of struggle to provide the comforts of life great hardships and much
                                    suffering had to be indured. Mr. Lenz says, that they would all commence work at
                                    daylight, and continue until dusk. Their meals would be brought to them in the
                                    fields. Returning home at night they would work by the light of lanterns, building
                                    fences around their dwellings, and in this way prepare the ground and plant gardens.
                                    Brick and frame houses soon supplanted the log cabins, and all were comfortably
                                    housed and surrounded with the luxuries of life. Large apple orchards, peach
                                    orchards, plum orchards, and vineyards had been set out and the fruit was made
                                    available for market, by drying and by distilling the juices. Hemp, flax and cotton
                                    fields were furnishing the fibers, and herds of sheep the wool, to be converted into
                                    cloth of various kinds for clothing. In 1817 they commenced to build a large steam
                                    mill, woolen factory, gin and cotton, yarn and cloth factory. The boiler and engine
                                    were upright, and the fly wheel was made of wood (iron, I know was afterwards
                                    substituted for this wood, as the immense iron-wheel stood in the lot for man years
                                    after the old mill had burned down.) A dye-house was also built and they not only
                                    made clothing for themselves, but a large surplus of cloth to be sold in the market.
                                    The immense fields of corn and wheat furnished bountiful crops of grain, and a
                                    surplus of meal and flour was sent to the 
                                        New Orleans
                                     market. Two mills were built on Gresham's creek for
                                    manufacturing oil from flax, hemp, rape and poppy seeds. The brewery and distillery,
                                    furnished an abundance of drink for the surrounding country besides what they
                                    required for themselves. It is a well-known fact that the Harrnonists were,
                                    notwithstanding, a remarkably temperate people, it being their object to convert the
                                    products of the land into such articles as found a ready sale at home and abroad. No
                                    matter what the Harmonists made, it was honestly and faithfully done, and their name
                                    was a passport that none could dispute and all honored.
                        Rapidly emerging from the privations and hardships that had to be encountered and
                                    endured, their comfortable homes had been supplied with admirable vegetable gardens,
                                    fruit trees and flowers adorned each yard, and a lovelier spot was no where to be
                                    found. There was a well kept public garden where the band would play music to
                                    delight the young and old, and a labyrinth in which the uninitiated would be lost,
                                    or at least bewildered. Mr. Rapp conceived the idea of erecting a large building in
                                    the form of a cross, to supplant the frame church and offer better accomodations for
                                    the assembled community. This building was finished in 1822. Each of the four wings
                                    were forty feet long and forty feet wide, and the main body of the building was
                                    eighty feet square and about eighty feet high, topped off with a four-sided bee-hive
                                    looking dome, that was surrounded by a promenade guarded by bannisters. There was a
                                    short bridge that connected the upper story of the east wing of this hall with the
                                    upper story of the frame church. The frame church had a belfry seven stories high;
                                    the upper  part was octagonal and terminated in
                                    a cone-shaped steeple. In the belfry there was a large clock with wheels strong
                                    enough for a grist mill. This clock struck every quarter of an hour on the little
                                    bell and repeated the hours on the great bell, which could be heard for many miles
                                    beyond the lands of the colony.
                        Nothing had been left undone, so far as the efforts of men guided by wise counselors
                                    could be exerted, to make the Harmonists comfortable and happy. When the grain was
                                    ready to be cut, the band numbering twenty musicians with a great variety of
                                    instruments, would play in the public square early in the morning, and by 4
                                    o'clock the harvesters, to the number of 200 or more, would assemble with
                                    their reap-hooks (sickles) in hand, and march with the band to the field. At 6 a.m.
                                    a light breakfast would be brought to them, and another meal at 10 a.m. and still
                                    another at 3 p.m. In this way a field of wheat of seventy acres or more would be cut
                                    and shocked by 6 o'clock in the afternoon, when they would be escort-ed by
                                    the band back to their homes.
                        The rapid destruction of the forest and the turning up of such a vast area of virgin
                                    soil, filled the air with poisonous malaria and the angel of death, with sickle
                                    keener than those of the merry harvesters, visited every household, and from 200 to
                                    300 were laid to rest in the beautiful grave yard which for seventy years has been
                                    held sacred. No stones were erected to mark each grave, but they were laid side by
                                    side and the ground was levelled above them. This burying ground is about 400 feet
                                    square and is enclosed by a high brick wall. There are a number of small Indian
                                    mounds within the enclosure and the whole is covered with a fine grove of locust
                                    trees that were planted at regular intervals.
                        So great a mortality made the Harmonists dissatisfied with the place, and it was sold
                                    to Robert Owen, town and lands, for one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. The
                                    first steamboat that ascended the Wabash river was called the
                                    Plow Boy; it was in 1817, and when came in sight of 
                                        New Harmony
                                    , the Germans brought out their cannon to fire a salute, but in the
                                    abscence of the regular gunner, besides the charge of powder the gun was rammed full
                                    of dirt, with a view of making a greater noise. When fired, the cannon burst,
                                    killing one man and breaking the leg of another. About this time the Harmonists had
                                    a steamboat built which they called the William Penn. On this steamboat and others
                                    employed for this purpose they moved from 
                                        New Harmony
                                     in 1824 and 1825 to their present home, Economy.
                        Mr. Lenz took great pleasure in this second visit to 
                                        New Harmony
                                    . It was Judge Hice's first visit and after remaining two days,
                                    they took the train for their respective homes.
                        
                                    E. T. Cox.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            THE OCEAN CROSSING OF VEVAY'S FOUNDERS
            Foreword
            The following narrative of the voyage across the Atlantic was originally written in French by one of
                    the company 
                  
                     7 The name was changed from Harmonie to 
                                
                                    New Harmony
                                
                             by Robert Owen alter the departure of the Rappitea.
               
                     of Swiss colonists who made the trip of 1801. It is possible
                    that the original was in the form of a daily journal, a sort of log-book. If so, the translator
                    changed the form, writing in the past tense. The account in English was found, long after it was
                    written, among the papers of Mrs. Josephine Detraz Shadday, who died in 1929. The translator is not
                    known. Mrs. Shadday was a devoted student of the early history of 
                        Vevay
                    , and, since she understood French, it is possible that she turned the original
                    manuscript into English. Soon after the narrative was found, it was published in the Reveille of 
                        Vevay
                    , and the story as here reproduced follows the newspaper copy.
            Mrs. Shadday was a granddaughter of two of the voyagers, Jean Daniel Moreau (Morerod) and Antoinette
                    (Du-four) Moreau. Antoinette was a sister of the Dufour brothers who were prominent in the founding
                    of 
                        Vevay
                    , as was also the man who became her husband, Jean Daniel Morerod. There were six
                    members of the Dufour family among the 
                        Vevay
                     colonists who crossed the Atlantic on the Voodsop.
               1 One of the Dufour brothers had come to America earlier and another came later. Other members
                    of the party of 1801 included Francois Siebenthal, his son Jean Francois, and a brother. The same
                    names appear in different families and there was intermarrying. Jean Daniel Morerod had a sister
                    there was intermarrying. Jean Daniel Dufour had a sister cois Siebenthal married a sister of
                    Antoinette, Jeanne Marie Dufour.
            Just who wrote the original diary or account of the voyage, cannot be stated definitely. It was
                    probably Francois Siebenthal, a widower, and the father of Jean Francois Siebenthal who became
                    prominent in 
                        Vevay
                     history. There is a bare possibility that Jean Daniel Dufour, oldest of the Dufour
                    brothers on the boat, was the author.2 Paragraph three of the narrative seems to
                    show conclusively that Siebenthal was the author.
            There is a tradition that the voyage lasted one hundred 
                  
                     1 There were three hrothers and three sisters of the Dufour family in
                            the party: Jean Daniel, Jean David, Jean Francois, Antoinette, Jeanne Marie. and Susanna
                            Marguerite. The three sisters were young and unmarried. The wife of Jean Daniel Dufour was
                            with him.
                  
                     2 Miss Julie LeClerc 
                                Knox
                            , who sent in the account as published in the Reveille, and
                            who has furnished the data relative to those concerned, is herself a greatgranddaughter of
                            Antoinette (Dufour) Morerod and Jean Daniel Morerod. Miss 
                                Knox
                             advances the theory that Jean Daniel Dufour. oldest of the brothers who came to
                            America on the Voodsop. was the author of the original diary or account.
               
                     days which must be rejected, as the account shows that the
                    actual start was made on March 25 and that the ship entered the James River on
                    April 30, a period of a little more than five weeks.
            [The Narrative]
            
                    Thursday, March 20, 1801. We went on board the sloop, "Useful", belonging to
                        Citizen Blanchard of Rochelle, which carried us from Bouche with our baggage and provisions for
                        our support during the voyage on the superb ship (Voodsop) [owned by] Sims of 
                            Philadelphia
                         which lay at anchor in the roadstead about three miles distant. The sea was rough
                        and made our sloop pitch strongly enough to upset the stomachs of the women and give us much
                        trouble in hoisting on board our provisions and numerous effects. It was necessary to change
                        from side to side from right to left of the boat in order to avoid being crushed against the
                        sloop. Never-the-less, in spite of the severity of wind and wave we arrived on board with
                        complete success without accident.
                    Afterwards the Captain asked about the condition of our provisions and told us we did not have
                        enough biscuits, and besides that we had not enough of other provisions which he specified
                        because it was better to have too many than too few, since it was impossible to fix accurately
                        how long our journey would last. Consequently when the Captain returned to shore in the sloop
                        which had brought him on board shortly before ourselves, three of us men returned to the landing
                        to obtain the before mentioned supplies and return the next day with them. The Captain and one
                        of the outfitters were to raise the anchor for departing. But on the morrow a contrary wind
                        arose with such force that it was impossible for three days for any sloop to leave the port of
                        Rochelle. The night of the 21st the wind having risen violently in spite of the fact that we had
                        3 anchors in the sea we risked being thrown on the shore [some words illegible]. The anchors
                        were not able to hold there. Happily the wind lost much of its force before morning. Our
                        position was so much more critical because we had neither pilot or captain on board. Although
                        the second officer who was with us, was very skillful in all the maneuvers of navigation, he did
                        not care to take upon himself the raising of the anchors to change our position, at least until
                        the wind changed from the west, east or north as we were too near the shore. Before the boat
                        could have turned we would have been crushed against the rocks. But thanks to Heaven the wind
                        diminished and the anchors held. We were saved.
                    On the 23rd the Captain and the pilot as well as Morerod having come aboard, we prepared for
                        departure. The 24th in the morning [name illegible, probably Jean David Dufour], the second of
                        the brothers (there were three) came aboard also my brother Siebenthal bringing with them the
                        most of the provisions. At one and the sea calm I proposed that we go ashore again to search for
                        some triffles [sic]. I therefore asked the Captain for his cutter and after
                        some begging he allowed me to take it. I took the rudder. I was  accompanied by four companions, Morerod, Bettens, Siebenthal Jr.
                        and my brother. In three quarters of an hour we reached the port of Rochelle. We remained there
                        about an hour and a half to make our little purchases. Finally we set out again before the tide
                        was entirely out and we were soon in the roadstead. The contrary wind gave us a lot of trouble
                        in reaching the ship. Nevertheless we reached it very happily at dusk, having spent about two
                        hours in coming.
                    The next morning, the 25th, the pilot ordered the anchor raised in order to start and it was put
                        aboard but he was not willing to leave the roadstead for fear he might be taken by an English
                        frigate which had come to anchor as a lookout. The aforesaid pilot was content in pointing out
                        at what point we should go out and departed after saying goodbye. We delivered to him our last
                        letters written on board. About an hour after we were indeed visited by the captain of above
                        mentioned frigate. This visit, however, was made early and we continued our journey with good
                        weather and little wind which was northerly. At two in the afternoon we were boarded by a
                        corsair from the island Guernsey. The man appearing to be in command came aboard and our captain
                        was invited to go aboard his boat. The pirate assumed the tone of a master and with extreme
                        insolence toward the passengers, commanded them all to come on deck which was done at once. Then
                        he gave orders to change the movement and come about. Our mate refused point-blank. Thereupon
                        they disputed and threatened each other. After they had made several turns around the deck, the
                        pirate descended precipitately to our Captains cabin. The second mate followed him but they were
                        not there long and returned together, seeing there was nothing to gain from us. Afterwards a
                        terrible noise greeted us. The pirate then touched the hand of our second mate and regained his
                        own boat, our Captain returning to his own boat. Our second mate told us he believed that
                        without the appearance of an English 74 gun ship of the line, about two gunshots away, we would
                        have been robbed by those thieves from Guernsey. A moment afterward the ship of the line, fired
                        a gun when half a ship's length off. The shot went astern. This was to notify us to
                        come to him. At the same time the captain of the gunner embarked in his cutter with one of his
                        officers and some sailors and boarded our ship. The two officers went into the cabin of our
                        captain where they remained a quarter of an hour, apparently to examine sailing papers.
                        Afterwards the captain made us a short visit between the decks but as he did not know French, he
                        said nothing to us except, "You are Swiss" and after our
                        "Yes", he went away, extending his regards to all. We were all astonished at
                        his courtesy. Having seen that we lifted our hats with his approach, he took his fine hat in his
                        hand and put it back on his head only after we had saluted for his departure. It was then about
                        five o'clock in the evening. The weather was fine. We set all the sail we previously
                        had and about six o'clock lost sight of the shores of 
                            France
                         and saw only the sky and water.
                    On the 26th and 27th we had calm and beautiful weather. On the 28th the wind was northeast but we
                        were making a good course up  to 8 knots. The 29th the same.
                        The 30th it was still fine up to about 1 oclock when the wind slackened a little, blowing only 4
                        or 5 hats. We perceived back of us a boat coming towards us. It was again a corsair from
                        Guernsey, which gave chase all day and caught up with us as night was falling, but we gave up
                        nothing (through fear) except a couple of hundred weight of biscuit and several baskets of wood
                        which he absolutely needed. The corsair offered to pay at first but our captain refused
                        "All right" said the corsair, "give me 50 bottles of wine.
                        I'll return them to you full of brandy." Compliments were passed. He insisted.
                        Finally they were sent to him. A moment after he reached his own deck, we saw that he was making
                        sail, carrying away our bottles. We took up our course again, believing this poor corsair who
                        appeared to be a little full, had apparently broken all his bottles and needed ours to replace
                        them.
                    After that day up to April 5th nothing new. We had a fair wind and were making good time. On that
                        day we overtook an American boat going, as he said, to Norfolk or 
                            Baltimore
                        . He had left the port ten days before us and we immediately lost sight of him, as
                        we went faster. They called to our Captain to make known his position on arriving at Norfolk.
                        Fair weather continued, wind from the southeast. On the 7th towards noon we met another American
                        boat coming from 
                            New York
                         bound for Copenhagen. Our Captain went aboard and brought back some codfish and a
                        packet of American papers in English. The 8th, 9th and 10th the wind was the same and sailing
                        good. On the 10th about 3 P.M. we arrived at the southern point of the Newfoundland Banks. The
                        wind having fallen, we found ourselves in the fog which, almost constantly, is found in these
                        seas. Our Captain who is a professional fisher of the cod, had promised us we should have fresh
                        cod to eat when we reached Newfoundland Banks. He kept his word. At 3:30, two lines, having two
                        hooks, were thrown into about 30 fathoms of water. We were an hour waiting to see a cod come
                        out. We had gone between decks and some one said "I believe that we have more butter
                        than is necessary to cook the fish which they will draw out", when all at once a cod
                        weighing about twenty five pounds, still on the hook, was thrown at the base of the steps to our
                        cabin. We went immediately on deck and had the pleasure of seeing them catch a dozen more that
                        evening and the next, morning between 7 and 8 o'clock. But the wind came with force,
                        the cold became sharp and we were obliged to quit those ports towards evening. I do not speak
                        nor will I call attention of anyone in this little journal of our voyage to the degrees of
                        latitude and longtitude, although the captain and the second mate who made the calculations on
                        board have told us every time, "Well, our route can be seen." On the map of
                        the world it has been parallel since we left Rochelle as far as the southern Banks of
                        Newfoundland.
                    On the 10th in the evening we were still on the banks with the same wind. We met a schooner from 
                            Boston
                         which was at anchor, fishing. Our Captain talked with them and the fishermen
                        offered him some of the fish. The little boat was at once lowered, three sailors with the second
                        mate descended with it and carried the fisher  men some salt
                        meat and two or three pots of brandy. On the other hand they brought back two hundred weight of
                        fish. (One alone weighed about 100 pounds). This is a flat fish but very fine to eat. We were
                        satisfied with fresh fish. I put up with it two or three times in sauce like the trout of Lake
                        Leman which has been found very good. Some of these fishermen told our mate they had been there
                        at anchor for ten days and they had only one hundred barrels of cod. It is inconceivable how
                        many fish are caught every year on the Newfoundland banks.
                    On the 13th the wind was north east having risen at evening. It became so strong that we had to
                        lie to but at midnight it changed and became south.
                    On the 14th the wind changed again. Finally in the evening a furious tempest arose south of us.
                        Towards midnight there was a thunder and lightning and much wind. The sea, too, was prodigious
                        in height.
                    On the 15th in the morning the wind had diminished very much but the sea was at a fearful height.
                        Our second mate who has followed the sea twenty two years told us he had never seen it higher.
                        The waves formed by tempests are not parallel and do not follow each other as on Lake Leman but
                        the sea made up of mountains of water in the form of mountain peaks which dance and come from
                        all sides. I was assured that when our boat was between these mountains of water there were some
                        of them whose summits were on a level with the top of the main mast, that is, over 30 feet high.
                        It was really a fearful sight to look at. But what reassured us was the good quality and
                        solidity of our ship—which mounted and descended the waves with admirable dexterity
                        but not without making us experience strong shocks and quiverings. At 10 P.M. the wind changed
                        and became north east. It gathered strength during the night and on the 15th at 3 A.M. it was
                        fearful violent and the sea very high. It continued all that day, all night and the entire next
                        day of the 16th. Consequently the anniversary of my Saint Day and my marriage, instead of being
                        a festival, was a day of tempest. We were CJff the cape2 and across its
                        front for 2 days and 2 nights. On the 17th the wind changed and became east but light.
                        Afterwards it changed south and from time to time, rain fell.
                    On the 18th we saw coming up an American ship from the south towards us. We took in two sails in
                        order to slacken our course to speak to him. It was the
                        "Seims" from 
                            Baltimore
                         of 300 tons, sheathed with copper, coming from 
                            London
                         and bound for 
                            New York
                        . From the 18th to the 28th we sailed only one day without rain. All the other days
                        the rain fell all day and part of the night. Part of the time there was lightning and thunder,
                        part of the time a good wind, then bad and none at all.
                    It is to be remarked that our voyage up to the banks of Newfoundland was very happy and the wind
                        was good, there was rarely 
                     
                        3 The first entry is dated March 20, 1801, at Roehelle, and the
                                last April 30. at the James River mouth ahout three hours from
                                Norfolk. The ship did not get started until April 26. The actual voyage was made in
                                about thirty-five and one half days.
                  
                         or never any rain, but beyond that point we met with 3
                        tempests and one mighty gale. But thanks be to Divine 
                            Providence
                        , we triumphed and we can say that our voyage has been a joyous one. With a good
                        boat not very heavily loaded and good sailors to manage, there is no danger in crossing the seea
                        at all between the spring equinox and autumn, that is to say in the full season of the year.
                    Finally on the 29th the south west wind having commenced to blow near 6 A.M., we were making only
                        3 knots, at 10 A.M., only 4. We saw on the starboard a mast of a boat floating on the waters. At
                        11 A.M. we were making 5 knots. My brother had mounted the main mast to see if he could not
                        discover land. He cried out to us, "I see something bulky before us floating on the
                        water like the body of a large fish or a shipwreck." In fact we were not long in
                        finding out what it was. We put the wheel over in order to pass near and found the hull of a
                        small boat quite near which had been shipwrecked some days before. The hull was still quite
                        whole but the masts and tackle no longer existed. Immediately we took in sail to stop our
                        course, put about and launched the cutter. The second mate and 3 sailors went in it with two
                        boarding axes, a hook and a rope. They boarded the wreck and brought from it 2 or 3 sailors
                        shirts and a pair of shoes of morroco for a child. They saw the boat was loaded with wine and
                        other merchandise but as only a little part of the deck on the right appeared above the water
                        and the sea was so rough they could not get much satisfaction from the wreck. If we had had the
                        wind astern we would have towed it in order to come up on the side in order to bring away what
                        we could that was most valuable. But I have already said that the wind was south east. As to
                        towing and filling with water that would have retarded us and the Captain has no thought of
                        delaying our arrival. We spread sails therefore and soon lost sight of that sad wreck of the
                        wind or possibly the thunderbolt and we left it to its savage owner, that is, Neptune.
                    At 5 P.M. while the wind was in the same direction but much stronger, we tacked until 9. At 6:30
                        A.M. the Captain went to the top of the main mast and saw land. At 8 he took soundings and found
                        10 fathoms. We continued this course until 10 o'clock, and having only 41/2 fathoms we
                        veered and took in all little sails and waited for day.
                    On the 30th at 2:30 in the morning we had some thunder claps that were very loud accompanied by
                        abundant rains which lasted only a short time. At 7 A.M. we were not more than a league from
                        Cape Charles on the left shore of Chesapeake Bay. The wind was the same, south east, but so
                        light that we scarcely stirred. A sloop came alongside and a pilot boarded us. At noon we saw
                        Cape Henry4 on the right of the above mentioned bay. The Captain told the
                        pilot how we had seen on the preceding day a wrecked ship. He said there had been a furious
                        tempest. On these shores there was an eight hour gale. Four boats had entered the river after
                        that, having lost 
                     
                        4 Cape Charles and Cape Henry guard the entrance to Chesapeake
                                Bay. The former is at the north of the entrance at the southern end of the peninsula
                                that lies to the east of the Bay, and Cape Henry ak the south side of the entrance to
                                the Bay. The above narrative erroneously reverses the names of the Capes.
                  
                         part of their masts. We decided this tempest had taken
                        place on Tuesday evening, the 21st, that we had had a mighty gale with blasts of wind and
                        fearful thunder.
                    At 6 P.M. we dropped anchor opposite the mouth of the James River, about 3
                        hours from Norfolk. We were not able to go further because the wind was contrary and the
                        entrance to Norfolk is difficult for large boats because of the bars on each side of the
                        channel.
                
         
         
            A MARRIAGE LICENSE OF 18491
            
            State of Indiana 
                        Brown County
                     S S.
            To Any person By Law Empowered to Solemnize Marriages greeting. You are hereby authorized to Join
                    together as husband and wife Joseph Hemphill and Sarahann Fricker and this shall be your warrant for
                    the Same
            Witness hy hand and seal of office at 
                        Nashville
                     this 24th day of October 1849
            W M Mason clerk
            [Seal]
            
               
                  1 The original of this license of 1849 is in the hands of the editor. The
                        county clerk had no form to fill out, but wrote it all in his own script. It is written on a
                        strip of blue-gray paper four by seven and a-half inches, which the clerk evidently tore from a
                        larger sheet
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Pioneer Merchant in Mid-America. By Lewis E. Atherton. The University of 
                        Missouri
                    
                    Studies, Vol. XIV, No. 2, 
                        Columbia
                    , 1939. Pp. 135, $1.25.
            During the past four years Dr. Atherton has been publishing numerous articles on early day business
                    activities in the middle American west. It is now gratifying to observe that in the present book he
                    has presented an excellent analysis of the entire subject of wholesale and retail business
                    enterprise in an area which embraces the states of 
                  Iowa, Illinois
               , and 
                        Missouri
                     for the years 1820 to the Civil War. The study is divided into four major topics: (1)
                    the pioneer merchant; (2) the western store; (3) wholesale markets; (4) business organization and
                    methods.
            In the first of these, Dr. Atherton has portrayed the merchant as a distinct frontier
                    personality—a person who not only sold groceries, dry goods, and patent medicines, but
                    who as one contemporary phrased it was "the agent of everybody." He was the
                    character so admirably portrayed in Harold Sinclair's recent novel, 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Years. Not only was the frontier merchant expected to be the purveyor of the
                    news, the community postal clerk, and banker, but, not infrequently, he served as a father
                    confessor, a public orator, and the custodian of traditions such as they were. The case of
                    storekeeper William Cornelius of 
                  Columbia, Missouri
               , is an excellent example of the latter,
                    since in one of his Fourth of July appearances he made this toast to the Father of our country:
                    "George 
                        Washington
                    : In purity, dignity, glory, he stands alone. Let no future Plutarch dare the iniquity
                    of finding a parallel to his character." Dr. Atherton has done more than characterize the
                    personality of the merchant. His painstaking scholarship has answered many questions regarding the
                    region from which the merchant class originally came, its political leaning, and origin and extent
                    of mercantile wealth in the West.
            In part two Dr. Atherton describes the physical makeup of the western stores which ranged from
                    sutlers' wagons to well-built and well-stocked log structures. The third part of the book
                    stresses the growing importance of New  Orleans, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        Baltimore
                    , and 
                        New York
                     as centers of wholesale trade and the general reliance of the western merchants on
                    eastern firms for goods. While the volume of western trade was relatively small it was nevertheless
                    in a large measure responsible for road and canal building activities in the East during the second
                    quarter of the nineteenth century. The concluding section lists and discusses the types of
                    mercantile organization, and it contains a lucid explanation of the complicated western money system
                    such as bills of exchange, currency, credit structures, and the method of handling accounts.
            The extensive bibliography and the generous number of footnotes reveal the extent to which Dr.
                    Atherton has made use of mercantile records, personal reminiscences, newspapers, and other
                    documentary materials. While this is essentially a monograph, the book deserves especial praise for
                    its good, easy style and for the fact that this, unlike so many studies in economic history, is
                    anything but dry.
            OSCAR OSBURN WINTHER
            
         
         
            
               The Moravian Mission on White River. Diaries and Letters May 5,
                        1799, to November 12, 1806. Edited by Lawrence Henry Gipson. Irtdiana
                        Historical Collections, XXIII, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1938. Pp. xv, 674, $2.00.
            This volume has been "in the making" for some twenty years. The late Arthur W.
                    Brady of Anderson, Indiana, began even before the World War to collect the Diaries and Mission
                    Letters relating to the Moravian Mission on White River, and made arrangements
                    to have them translated and edited. Mr. Brady died in 1933. His manuscripts, incomplete and
                    unedited, were entrusted to Dr. Christopher B. Coleman of the Indiana Historical Bureau. In looking
                    about for a competent editor, Dr. Coleman naturally turned to Professor Gipson, who, before going to
                    Lehigh University, 
                  Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
               , had taught History for several years in 
                        Wabash
                     College, Crawfordsyille, Indiana. With such a background, in addition to his recognized
                    scholarly and editorial ability, no other person could have been found who could do the job so well.
                    Before undertaking the task of editing these documents, however, Professor Gipson was  fortunate in having them translated by four members of the Moravian
                    Church: Dr. H. E. Stocker, H. T. Frueauff, and Professor and Mrs. Samuel C. Zeller—all
                    competent scholars. Thus, this volume emerges as the product of a number of minds. The real authors,
                    those who faithfully penned the Diaries have long since died. Mr. Brady, too, has passed to his
                    reward, as has Dr. H. E. Stocker.
            On first thought, it might seem somewhat difficult to evaluate such a volume, representing the
                    product of several individuals. But with the able editing that Professor Gipson has done, the task
                    is not as difficult as it may appear. The Diaries and Letters will be
                    indispensable in any study relating to the missionary work of the Moravian Church. For over two
                    hundred years this church has devoted itself to mission enterprises in North and South America and
                    in the islands of the sea. Much of historical information is gleaned from Professor
                    Gipson's footnotes and editorial comments. Using the Diaries as a narrative, the editor
                    leads us down numerous historical by-paths and reveals whole chapters of Indian history to the
                    reader—chapters that almost over-shadow the events so meticulously described in the
                    Diaries. Truth compels the statement that during the period of the Moravian Mission, from 1801 to
                    1806, little aid was given by William Henry Harrison, territorial governor of Indiana. No real
                    effort was made for example to stop the liquor traffic. But, despite this lack of help, the
                    Moravians carried on as best they could.
            Many a reader of this Magazine, will want this volume in his library of Indiana
                    History. It fills a gap—a brief one, it is true—but none-the-less a gap in
                    Indian History that long since should have been filled. Two addresses of historical importance from
                    Moravian missionaries, one to Governor William Henry Harrison, and one to Governor Arthur St. Clair
                    are included. An excellent index of thirty-two pages concludes the book.
            JOHN WM. OLIVER
            
         
         
            
               The Rampaging Frontier. By Thomas D. Clark. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1939. Pp. 350 (xiv, 15–350), $3.00.
            The sub-title of this unusual volume is "Manners and Humors of Pioneer Days in the South and
                    Middle West," and  the author has held closely to his
                    subject. The story is well told by Dr. Clark whose own comment is often more refreshing even than
                    the humor of the stories that he tells or the facts that he presents. The honesty and respect with
                    which the people of the frontier have been treated squares with a statement made by the writer in
                    his Preface:
                        At no place have I been guilty of laughing at the people who break through the mountain
                            barrier to plant a new society along a new frontier. It has ever been my hope to march
                            humbly in lockstep with them and to help tell their human story with as little prejudice as
                            possible and ho levity. I cannot refrain from being envious of them of their land and their
                            fun. My enjoyment of their antics has been vicarious, but complete.
                    
            
            It is very, difficult to write well of the rampaging features of pioneer life, but Dr. Clark has
                    maintained his balance exceedingly well. He has treated the rollicking ways of those types of men
                    who reacted to frontier conditions with vigor and rough humor with fairness and fidelity. He has
                    selected and told many stories well, and has succeeded even better with dialogue, a very difficult
                    form of composition. The titles of his ten chapters are intriguing, and whether he is dealing with,
                    "Varmints," "Liars," "Fiddlin',"
                    "Fool-in' with the Gals," or some other topic, his own comment is
                    interesting and often keen. The book, as a whole, is a rich repository of lore and fact relating to
                    important aspects of pioneer times that have not been well portrayed in the past.
            The volume relates to the Middle West. As the author says in his "Preface," he has
                    confined his story to the Trans-Alleghany region, included 
                        Tennessee
                     and held himself below the "Yankee line in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    ." Some material covers territory beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the western limits of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                    , and excursions and forays have been made into 
                  Iowa, Wisconsin, Mississippi
                and 
                        Louisiana
                    . Hoosiers who know something of frontier life in Indiana will find much to entertain
                    and instruct them in The Rampaging Frontier.
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
            
         
         
            
               Documents and Readings in the History of Europe Since 1918. Collected by Walter
                    Consuelo Langsam, Ph.D. J. B. Lippincott Company, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1939. Pp. xxvii, 865.
            WILL D. GILLIAM, JR.
            
            In the foreword Dr. Langsam states that his object is 
                    "providing, in convenient form, the exact texts of some of the most important documents and
                    illustrative reading material relevant to the general course on the history of Europe since
                    1918."
            The book has ten chapters with a total of two hundred forty-five numbered sections. Each section is
                    prefaced by a brief explanatory note concerning the nature of the material in that section, a
                    feature adding to the usefulness of the book. In every case, the compiler has indicated carefully
                    the source of the data used. Material drawn upon includes many documents and also many of the more
                    authoritative secondary accounts that treat various aspects of post-war Europe.
            Following chapters on the "
                        Paris
                     Peace Settlement," "The League of Nations,"
                    "Reparations, Debts, Depression," "Security and Armaments," one
                    chapter each is given over to "Great Britain and its Empire," "
                        France
                    ," "
                        Italy
                    ," "
                        Spain
                    ," "Great 
                        Germany
                    ," and "The 
                        Soviet Union
                    ."
            The readings include sections on such topics as: "Factors in the Great Depression,"
                    "DO Colonies Pay?", "Some of the Effects of the War in Great
                    Britain," "The French Character," "The Battle of
                    Wheat," "The Austrian Peasant," "The Horst Wessel
                    Song," "The Death of Chancellor Dollfus," "Lenin on the New
                    Economic Policy," and "The Moscow Trials, 1937."
            This book should be of value to students with some knowledge of the background of the period and
                    topics treated, and will afford a beginning to more than textbook information.
         
         
            
               George Croghun's Journal of His Trip to 
                            Detroit
                         in 1776 was recently brought out by the University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press. This handsome, little volume (pp. vii, 61) is accompanied by an Appendix listing
                    all of the George Croghan manuscripts in the William L. Clements Library and there is a complete
                    Index. The contents of the volume, which is carefully edited by Howard H. Peckham, contain a sketch
                    of Croghan, correspondence between him and General Gage of 1767, and the Journal listed in the
                    title. This very valuable publication may be obtained from the University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , for $1.25.
         
         
         
            Correspondence
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 10, 1939
                                
                        Editor Indiana Magazine of History:
                        In doing research oq the life of John McCoy, one of Indiana's pioneers, I
                                    have come across three references to his part in the aftermath of the Pigeon Roost
                                    Massacre in the Indiana Magazine of Histovy. They occur in the
                                    numbers for Dec. 1918, March 1924, and June 1927. Because I feel that a
                                    misunderstanding lies at the base of the accounts, I am writing to call your
                                    attention to some other references.
                        The first is John B. Dillon's History of Indiana,
                                    published in 1859. See p. 481 and pp. 492–495. The scouting party which
                                    had the disastrous encounter with the retreating Indians was, as you will notice,
                                    under the immediate command of a Capt. Devault, not under Maj. McCoy.
                        Next is a letter from Gibson to Hargrove, printed on pp. 138–139 of the
                                        Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, vol. II. It
                                    states: "No blame can be attached to the Clark Co. militia."
                        My third reference is not in print. It is the diary which John M'Coy kept
                                    from 1847–1852. There are no references in it to Pigeon Roost, but there
                                    are many references to Elder Nugent. Apparently at that time the two men were on
                                    friendly terms, not, as the accounts in the Magazine would lead
                                    one to think, life-long enemies.
                        If it was Devault rather than McCoy who made the error of trying to fight Indians as
                                    if they were "civilized Warriors," it seems unwarrantable to
                                    continue the error in reporting. If there are conclusive statements to the contrary,
                                    I should be glad to know of them, for I am hunting for proof of facts.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    Elizabeth Hayward.
                                
                        (Mrs. Sumner Hayward, 224 Richards Road, Ridgewood, 
                                        New Jersey
                                    .)
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            A SOUTHERN JOURNEY
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Being interested in the South and especially in the part played by geographic factors in the
                    development of southern history, I have made numerous trips into the South during the past twenty
                    years. On many of these jaunts, whether by train or automobile, my wife has accompanied me. We do
                    not go South to spend the winters as do hundreds of people annually. We go at any period of the year
                    to enjoy the country, to study mountains, plateaus, and rivers, and to become acquainted with
                    southern crops at different stages of growth. We have a real interest in the present South, but our
                    foremost purpose is to acquire a first-hand knowledge of the general geography of the area whose
                    people staged a determined four-year war for independence from 1861 to 1865.
            Friday afternoon, December 22, 1922, found Mrs. Lynch and myself boarding a Monon train at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, for 
                        Louisville
                    . We were headed for 
                  Charleston,
                            South Carolina
               , but we did not buy either
                    round-trip or one-way tickets to that city. Our plan was to travel comparatively short distances on
                    each part of the journey, going and returning, and to purchase transportation for each stage of the
                    trip as needed. We traveled very little after nightfall. We patronized dining cars occasionally, but
                    did not sleep on the train. There is no chance after traveling in this manner to bore one's
                    friends later with the details of struggles to obtain lower berth reservations. Nevertheless, it is
                    a very fine method of journeying by train when the object is to see the country and gather
                    information about different regions through observation.
            We spent the night in 
                        Louisville
                     at the Seelbach Hotel, and went to Ashland, 
                        Kentucky
                    , the next day. The Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     line from 
                        Louisville
                     passes through the blue grass country and the hills farther eastward. The state road to
                    Ashland had not been constructed in 1922, but often the railway followed a narrow valley and
                    paralleled a road. One could see along the line scores of "coves" each opening out
                    on a larger but still narrow valley. In each cove was a house with stable and other buildings behind
                    it and little  fields and patches extending back towards the
                    vanishing point of the acute triangle.
            We spent the evening of the twenty-fourth, and remained overnight, with my sister, Mrs. William C.
                    Myers, and her husband, who lived in Ashland. On Christmas morning, we left early for Johnson City, 
                        Tennessee
                    . We passed southward on a spur of the C. & O. to Elkhorn City where we
                    transferred to the Clinchfield Railway. The C. & O. branch line passes up the Big Sandy for
                    a few miles and then follows the western fork, which is known as Luvisa (or Louisa) Fork. There is a
                    succession of hills and the road is lined with coal mines and little settlements of miners. Nature
                    did her part to provide beautiful scenery, but about every thing that man has done lessens the
                    attractiveness of the region. In the neighborhood of Pikeville, there is a less hilly area with
                    considerable farm land. -This little city has a population of less than 2500, but it is the home of
                    a college. At the end of the branch line from the Ohio River and at the
                    beginning of the Clinchfield Railway, stands Elkhorn City, the main feature of which is that it has
                    almost no inhabitants. It is, or was in 1922, merely the connecting point of two railway lines,
                    which did a large freight business and carried a considerable number of passengers on the two trains
                    that passed each way on each road daily. There was a sandwich joint near the
                    "union" railway station in December, 1922, but the little building which it
                    occupied had burned prior to August, 1924, when we passed that way again, going in the opposite
                    direction.
            The train for Spartanburg, 
                        South Carolina
                    , left Elkhorn City very soon after our arrival, and immediately began an ascent of the
                    adjacent mountain. The Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     spur follows the valley closely, but the Clinchfield road passes through from twenty to
                    twenty-five tunnels as it winds its way over the Cumberlands to the valley of the Clinch
                        River. This part of the trip was a delightful experience, and we enjoyed it to the
                    full as we passed through an area that few people ever choose to traverse who do not live near it or
                    have business reasons for traveling through it. In the midst of the afternoon, we came to
                            
                  St. Paul, Virginia
               , where we saw a number of automobiles, a rare sight since we
                    had left Ashland. The railroad built to carry coal from eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     to factory towns of the Piedmont  Plateau of the
                    Carolinas, after passing 
                        St. Paul
                     on the upper Clinch, follows that stream southwestward for about forty miles before
                    turning southeastward again. This is in order that it may pass through the gap in Clinch Mountain
                    not far from Gate City and near the boundary line between 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    . This narrow mountain in the midst of the Appalachian Valley lies in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     between the Clinch and Holston rivers. It trends from northeast to
                    southwest as do nearly all of the ridges of the Southern Appalachians.
            We arrived at Johnson City at about seven and ate our Christmas dinner at eight o'clock. The
                    city has a fine location and is about 1600 feet above sea level. In the midst of a fine agricultural
                    area, with power and excellent transportation facilities, the city had been growing rapidly. Much of
                    it was new, and the business district showed evidences of change and uncompleted plans. The East 
                        Tennessee
                     State Teachers College and a National Soldiers' Home are located at Johnson
                    City, and Milligan College is a short distance eastward. The beautiful Watauga
                    River flows westward from the mountains to join the South Fork of the Holston, but
                    unfortunately Johnson City is about four miles away.
            Leaving for Spartanburg about noon we again traveled on the Clinchfield Railway. Running south we
                    soon reached the Nolichucky River and followed it up to and through the
                    mountains that form the line between 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                    . Above the boundary the River is known as the Toe, which is formed by the junction of
                    two forks, the North Toe and the South Toe. These cut their winding courses across the high, narrow
                    plateau from the Blue Ridge. The route across the plateau and over the Blue Ridge by way of Alta
                    Pass is impressive. The descent from the pass is quite rapid for a time. After passing 
                        Marion
                    
                    
                        North Carolina
                    , the railroad runs nearly southward towards the 
                        South Carolina
                     line. It was in this area that we saw the first cotton fields, with their dark red
                    Piedmont soil. We reached Spartanburg early in the evening, and stayed at the 
                        Cleveland
                    , a new and very fine hotel, where we obtained a room with twin-beds and bath at
                    $5.00. Spartanburg is a charming city of the upper Piedmont.
            On the way from Spartanburg to 
                        Charleston
                     we stopped off between two eastbound trains of the Southern Railway  to spend a few hours at 
                        Columbia
                    , a fall-line city on the Congaree, which river is formed by the junction and the Broad
                    and the Saluda just above the city. In the evening, we resumed our journey and rode into 
                        Charleston
                     at about eight o'clock. We stopped at the Hotel 
                        Charleston
                    . This fine old building with its imposing columns had been recently remodeled and
                    renovated. Our room was one of unbelievable dimensions, the bathroom, which was considerably
                    smaller, being about fifteen by twelve feet. 
                        Charleston
                     is a city of distinction and charm, and the place is rich in history.
                    I have no wish to lessen the winter tourist trade of 
                        Florida
                     or 
                        California
                    , but I am unable to understand why people who seek pleasanter climes in the winter time
                    should all go where the crowds go. I am sure that numbers of persons could obtain the advantages of
                    mild winters, along with greater enjoyment and more cultural benefits if they should choose
                            
                  Charleston, New
                            Orleans
               , Mobile, Savannah or others of the finer old cities of the
                    deep South in which to spend the colder months,
            We spent two days in 
                        Charleston
                    . This was a hurried sojourn, but we found the harbor, the Battery, the museum, the old
                    planter residences of ante-bellum days, old churches, old cemeteries, and sundry other features of
                    the city to be fascinating in their appeal. The old residences, very many of which have suffered
                    gradual decline since the day when 
                        Charleston
                     so proudly and willingly led off in the war for southern independence, interested us
                    more than anything else, perhaps. These imposing mansions, that open directly on the sidewalk, but
                    whose verandas front on the side yard, are proud specimens of one type of southern architecture.
                    Built mostly by wealthy rice-planters, they reveal the high-tide of social prestige under the old
                    régime. It seems too bad that any of these splendid homes of another day should be
                    permitted to disappear in time through a slow but certain decay.
            On the return from 
                        Charleston
                    , we again visited 
                        Columbia
                     for a few hours, and then took the train for Ashevillc which we reached at about ten at
                    night. The next day. December 30, we went to Bristol on the 
                        Tennessee
                    -
                        Virginia
                     line in the Appalachian Valley, via Morristown, and then back to 
                        Knoxville
                    . The Appalachian Valley in Southern Appalachia lies almost entirely in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .  It is one of the most beautiful and most fruitful
                    areas of the entire 
                        United States
                    . It is drained by many streams, some of which lie entirely within the Valley, flowing
                    northeast or southwest; others rise in the Valley and flow out through mountain ranges, some of them
                    to the eastward cutting through the Blue Ridge, but one, the New River, crosses
                    the Valley in the opposite direction and flows through the Alleghany Front at the Narrows. After
                    performing this feat, it flows down the Alleghany Plateau, becoming the Kanawha on the way to the 
                        Ohio
                    . The Applachian Valley is not a river valley, but is drained by many
                    rivers that flow in various directions, and is a longitudinal depression or trough,
                    bounded by the main ranges of the Appalachians and containing lesser mountains within its bounds.
            The run from 
                        Asheville
                     down the valley of the French Broad is through a part of the same area as that crossed
                    by the Toe-Nolichucky, but it is even more splendid to look at. Meandering across the high plateau
                    between the Blue Ridge and the Great Smokies, the waters of the French Broad have cut a deep gorge.
                    The sides of this narrow valley have been carved up by smaller streams and the resulting hills
                    smoothed down somewhat by the erosion of the ages look much like mountains to one riding along the
                    river on a Southern Railway train. It has been our good fortune to drive from 
                        Tennessee
                     to 
                        Asheville
                     by automobile, but the train trip through this magnificent country is the more
                    enchanting because the railroad follows the French Broad so closely.
            In the Appalachian Valley, it seems better to travel by automobile, though we shall never forget the
                    train trip of seventeen years ago. Of all the parts of the South, we recommend the Appalachian
                    Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     as the most splendid in which to make automobile tours. From the Valley it is easy to
                    reach the most picturesque of the mountain ranges that make up the Southern Appala-chaians. Our run
                    to Bristol was an extra feature of our tour, made solely that we might study the Valley in the
                    drainage area of the upper 
                        Tennessee
                     system.
            
               
                        Knoxville
                     on the Tennessee River, has a choice location. Jts chief drawback
                    is that the ridge on which the heart of the city is located is too limited. There are too many
                    oneway streets, and traffic is always congested in the busiest 
                    section of the city. The development of 
                        Broadway
                    , which parallels Gay Street and leads to a new bridge across the 
                        Tennessee
                     a few blocks to the southwest of the Gay Street Bridge, has added much to the solution
                    of an acute traffic problem. When the owners of a few large department stores gather courage enough
                    to move from Gay Street to 
                        Broadway
                    , should that time ever come, 
                        Knoxville
                     will start on a new era. Other businesses will follow, and, with a much more extensive
                    shopping district, the economic growth of the city can be more free and vigorous.
            Never in 
                        Knoxville
                     before 1922, we have often visited this city on the 
                        Tennessee
                     since, and in 1930, we lived for three months on its highest point from which we could
                    see the Great Smokies to the southward at any time when not obscured by clouds.
            From 
                        Knoxville
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                    , we returned by way of 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    , Corbin, and 
                        Louisville
                    , spending the last night of 1922 in the latter city. The famous pass in the Cumberlands
                    at the extreme southwestern angle of 
                        Virginia
                     is a wind-gap. Not only does no stream flow through it, but it is used by no railroad
                    line. A tunnel through Cumberland Mountain carries railroad traffic under the Gap. Mid-dlesboro lies
                    below the pass on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the mountain and close to the 
                        Tennessee
                     line. In fact, 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     on the 
                        Virginia
                    -
                        Kentucky
                     line is but a little way from 
                        Tennessee
                    . The Cumberland River in its upper course flows southwest not far
                    from Cumberland Mountain. About twelve or fourteen miles west of Middlesboro, the river turns to
                    flow northwest for quite a distance. In this part of its course the River leads towards the Blue
                    Grass country, hence 
                        Boone
                    's Wilderness Road, the railroad line, and the present Dixie Highway follow the
                    valley from Pineville to Barbour-ville, and then pass on towards the Kentucky
                    River climbing over one ridge after another on the way from one little valley to the
                    next.
            It was necessary to change from a branch of the Southern Railway System to a branch of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                     System at Middlesboro, and wait an hour or two for an L. & N. train. The next
                    change was at Corbin, a famous L. & N. junction point. On the last day of December of 1922,
                    it seemed that everybody was changing cars at the Corbin station of the L. & N. The station
                    facilities were  entirely inadequate for the handling of the
                    vast number of waiting passengers who were there for no other purpose than to change cars. We got
                    away after two very long hours on a train for 
                        Louisville
                    . Reaching 
                        Louisville
                     that night, we stopped at the Henry Watterson Hotel. Sleeping soundly at midnight, Mrs.
                    Lynch and I were suddenly awakened by the firing of salutes to the new year in the downtown
                    district. The next forenoon we made the short run from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Bloomington
                     on the Monon. The total expended for carfares was $134.10, and the number of
                    miles covered was 1,862. For rooms, meals and taxi fares our outlay was $63.87, and
                    incidental expenses ran to $14.65.
         
         
            
               Contributors: Robert Price is an Instructor in the Department of English at 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Columbus
                    . Helen Elliott is a member of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Commission, whose home is in 
                        New Harmony
                     and who teaches in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mrs. Myrtle Walker Amick resides at Scipio, Indiana. Ross F. Lockridge is Director of
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                     Memorial Commission. Christopher B. Coleman is Secretary of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, Head of the Indiana Historical Bureau, and Director of the Indiana State Library. J. Harley
                    Nichols, formerly Director of the Survey of Federal Archives for Indiana, is now on the editorial
                    staff of the Historical Records Survey of Indiana. Lynn W. Turner is Professor of history at
                    Monmouth College at Monmouth, 
                        Illinois
                    . Oscar Osburn Winthor is an Instructor in the Department of History at Indiana
                    University. John Wm. Oliver is head of the Department of History at the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Will D. Gilliam, Jr., is an assistant Professor of History at Centre College, Dandle, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                        
                     ⋆Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
                        Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                        
                     ⋆Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                        Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
                        
                     ⋆Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                        
                     ⋆Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                        
                     ⋆Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                        
                     ⋆Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
                        Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                        Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
                    
            
            The Indiana University Library will appreciate a gift of the following issues of the National Geographic Magazine: vols. I-VI (1890–1896, twelve issues per year),
                    IX (1898, twelve issues) ; XV (1904, twelve issues).
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for a period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
            The Fauntleroy Family
            MARY EMILY FAUNTLEROY
            
            The name of this family has been spelled Enfans du Roi, Enfans le Rois, and for many centuries Faunt
                    le Roy; only in the past century has it been written as one word—Fauntleroy. The family
                    was established in Dorsetshire, 
                        England
                    , at a very early period, and was closely affiliated with the supporters of the early
                    Normans, Plantagenets, and 
                        Lancaster
                     kings.1 They were people of education, heavy landowners,
                    charitable, supporters of the Church. They were in high standing in that part of 
                        England
                    , where the family had been seated, and enjoyed the distinction of antiquity.
            Arms were granted members of the Fauntleroy family by the College of Arms of 
                        England
                     in 1600. Copies of this grant are found in the British Museum, 
                        London
                    . The Shield was marked with the heads of three golden-haired boys. The Crest was added
                    during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the Fleur-de-lis between two azure wings above the shield. The
                    Motto (or scroll) was "beneath the shield 'Fauntleroy.'" The
                    English authorities consider the coat of arms just a pictorial device designed in Early 
                        England
                    , illustrating the name with direct evidence as to its 
                        Norman
                     or French origin. The ancient Anglo-Normans had for their coat of arms the same as that
                    of the Fauntleroys. The name le Roy appears quite frequently in the ancient 
                        Norman
                     rolls.
            Walter Fauntleroy, born about 1273, married Juliana de Thornhull, daughter of Robert de Thornhull, of
                    Sherborne, Dorsetshire, 
                        England
                    . The history of the de Thornhull family begins as early as 1200 with definite records
                    from John de Thornhull and his two sons, Ralph and Walter. It is recorded that Walter granted to his
                    brother Ralph the estate of Alveston Manor in the year 1227. This name, Alveston Manor, appears
                    later in the records of the Fauntelroy estates. Walter de Thornhull had a son Walter de Thornhull,
                    Jr., who was married in 1274 to Cecelia Antioch, and died in 1307. Their son, Robert de Thornhull,
                    married in 1294 (wife's name not given), and their daughter, Juliana, married Walter
                    Fauntleroy, as stated above.
            Walter and Juliana (de Thornhull) Fauntleroy were 
                  
                     1 The typed record of the Fauntleroy family. compiled by Mary Emily
                            Fauntleroy (30 pp. with chart and photographs) has been filed in the Genealogy Section of
                            the Indiana State Library. 
                                Indianapolis
                            . by the Society of Colonial Dames of Indiana.
               
                     the parents of two sons: John, recorded as being a witness in a
                    law suit in 1333, and Adam, recorded as living at Alveston, part of the Fauntleroy estate, in 1340.
                    Adam had but one son, whose name was John (living in Fauntleroy Marsh in 1373). This John had five
                    sons: John, William, Nicholas, Richard, and Robert. John Fauntleroy (only son and heir of Adam
                    Fauntleroy) was born in 1370 and died in 1440. John was married in 1397 to Joan Walyes (born in
                    1374; daughter of John Walyes). John Wayles was a man of wealth and prominence, and did homage to
                    the Bishop of Sarum in 1428.
            John Fauntleroy (the fourth), Sir Knight, and his wife Joan Walyes had but one son, John (the fifth),
                    called John, Jr., who inherited his father's great wealth and much property from his
                    mother's family. John Fauntleroy (the fifth) married Elizabeth Wadham of Merrifield, 
                        Somerset County
                    , 
                        England
                    . They had seven children: Peter, Bridget, William, John, Elizabeth, Agnes, and Tristram
                    (spelled also Tristam). This seventh child, Tristram Fauntleroy, was born in 1452 at Fauntleroy
                    Marsh, and died at "Priory," in Hampshire. He married Mrs. Joan Holt Viliers,
                    widow of Robert Viliers of Crondall, Wiltshire, who had two children by her first marriage (William
                    Viliers, who became a priest, and a daughter who married George Brooks). Tristram and Joan
                    Fauntleroy had two sons, Byron and John. Tristram Fauntleroy died in 1538 at the
                    "Priory," a short distance from Michel Marsh Church given to him for his services
                    to Henry VIII in the settlements of church and state during the Reformation. He was master and
                    squire of the Manor of Michel Marsh Church, one of the oldest in 
                        England
                    . This church was restored about 1825. His portrait is shown in one of the restored
                    windows, with the notation "Tristram Fauntc leroy, who by his generosity and services to
                    the State and Church has left a living memory." There are also two stone tablets on the
                    wall of the chancel of the Church, and a much larger tablet in the church to the memory of Tristram
                    and Joan Fauntleroy.2
            
            After the death of Tristram Fauntleroy, his wife Joan and their two sons, Byron and John, resided at
                    Crondall, Hampshire, on the estate that she inherited from her father.
            
               
                  2 Photographs of the portrait of Tristram Fauntleroy and the tablets
                        mentioned are shown in the record mentioned in note 1. They were secured by Miss Fauntleroy
                        while visiting in 
                            England
                        , as was also a copy of the will of Tristram Fauntleroy. who died in 1538. She
                        writes. "It is rather unusual to possess a portrait of an ancestor of four hundred
                        years ago."
            
            
            Byron, the eldest son, was heir and executor of his father's will made in 1538. His
                    inheritance embraced Michel Marsh Manor and many other places. John Fauntleroy, the second son,
                    married Margaret Moore. He died in 1598, his wife on April 5, 1613. Both are buried at Crondall,
                    Hampshire, 
                        England
                    .
            Their son William Fauntleroy, of Crondall, eldest son and heir, married Frances— (buried
                    May 24, 1636), and their son John was baptized January 13, 1588. John married Phoebe Wilkinson at
                    Crondall in 1607. They had thirteen children. The second son, Moore Fauntleroy, first married
                    Dorothy Colle on December 22, 1639. She died leaving two daughters who remained in 
                        England
                     when Moore came to America. His first voyage to America was in 1641, but it was in 1643
                    that he left 
                        England
                     for good for political reasons and settled in upper Norfolk County, 
                        Virginia
                    . His home was called "Roger's Nest." He was commissioned
                    captain in 1645 and major in 1647 in the county militia. He was granted a land patent February 20,
                    1643, and served in the House of Burgesses 1644–1648.
            Moore Fauntleroy moved to the Northern Neck of the 
                        Virginia
                     Tidewater in 1648, and settled on a tract of land at Naylor's Hole, on the
                    north bank of the Rappahannock River, extending from the Rappahannock to the
                        Potomac River in 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . Of this large tract of land, five hundred acres was granted and confirmed by Act I,
                    Grand Assembly of 
                        Virginia
                    , March 23, 1660, in the twelfth year (reckoning from the execution of Charles on
                    January 30, 1649) of the rein of King Charles II. This property was successively a part of 
                        Lancaster
                    , Old Rappahannock, and 
                        Richmond counties
                    . Moore Fauntleroy was justice and Burgher from 
                        Lancaster
                     1651, 1652, 1656, and from Rappahannock, 1656. He owned large tracts of land, many
                    slaves, and several vessels, and transported many settlers from 
                        England
                    . He died in 1667 at Crondall, a part of Naylor's Hole. He was buried there.
                    His second wife was Mary Hill, daughter of Thomas Hill of Rappahannock County, 
                        Virginia
                    . The marriage occurred in 1648. The coat of arms was given to him on December 8, 1633.
            Moore Fauntleroy and his wife Mary Hill had a family of two sons and one daughter: William, Moore,
                    and Elizabeth. William was born in 1658 at Crondall, Rappahannock  County, and died in 1686. He was married in 1678 to Katherine Griffin (b. March 16, 1664; d.
                    1703; dau. of Col. Samuel Griffin of Northumberland County, 
                        Virginia
                    ). William and Katherine Griffin Fauntleroy had three sons: Col. William Fauntleroy,
                    Col. Griffin Fauntleroy, and Moore Fauntleroy.
            Col. William Fauntleroy (third) born on March 31, 1684, lived at Naylor's Hole, 
                        Richmond County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . He was married in 1712 to Apphia Bushrod, daughter of Col. John Bushrod, of Bushfield,
                    Westmoreland County, 
                        Virginia
                    . He was a member of the House of Burgesses from 
                        Richmond County
                    , 1736–1749. His will was dated December 5, 1757, at Naylor's Hole.
                    He died in 1757.
            
               Children of Col. William and Apphia (Bushrod)Fauntleroy:
               
                  William (Lieut. Col.)—b. 1713; d. 1793; m. (1) Elizabeth—, (one
                            child) ;3 m. (2) Margaret Murdock; 12 children.
                  Moore (Capt.)—b. 1716; d. 1791; m. (1) Ann Neal; (2) Elizabeth Mitchel.
                  John—b. 1724; d. 1766; m. (1) Judith Littlepage; (2) Elizabeth Waring, daughter
                            of Thomas Waring.
                  Hannah—m. Capt. Maxmillian Robinson.
                  Apphia—m. Col. William Dangerfield.
                  Katherine—m. John Lewis.
                  Mary—m. Robert Brooks.
                  Ann—m. John Pettet.
                  Sarah—m. James Gray.
               
            
            
               Children of Lieut. William and Margaret (Murdock)FauntEeroy:
               
                  Apphia—d. young.
                  William (M.D.)—b. 1742; d. 1775; student at the "Temple,"
                            Edinburgh, 
                                Scotland
                            , and in 
                                London
                            .
                  Moore (M.D.)—b. 1743; d. 1802; student with his brother William at Edinburgh;
                            inherited the old plantation at Naylor's Hole.
                  John (Capt.)—b. 1745; d. 1798; m. Mrs. Judith (Ball) Griffen (dau. of Col.
                            James Ball of Bewly).
                  Griffen Murdock (Capt.)—b. 1747; d. 1794; m. Ann 
                        
                           3 Elizabdh (Betsy) dau. Lieut. Col. William and Elizabeth
                                    Fauntleroy: b. 1736: m. (1) John Adam: m. (2) Capt. Bowler Crooke: d. 1792. This
                                    Betsy, the "Lowland Beauty," made an impression upon thd youthful
                                    and susceptible heart of Georgc 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                     
                             Belfield of Mars Hill (dau. of John Belfield, a
                            Revolutionary soldier). Griffen was an officer in the Revolution, first lieutenant in the 
                                Virginia
                             Militia, April 5, 1779, and later made captain.
                  Jane—b. 1748; m. Col. Thomas Turner of Washingham, Westmoreland County, 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  Sally—b. 1752; m.—Turner.
                  Molly—b. 1753; d. young.
                  Joseph—b. 1754; d. 1815; m. Elizabeth Foushee Faunt-leroy (dau. of Capt.
                            Bushrod and Elizabeth Foushee Faunt-leroy).
                  Henry (Capt.)—b. 1756; killed in the battle of Mon-mouth, 
                                New Jersey
                            , June 28, 1778.
                  Robert—b. 1758; d. 1832; m. Sarah Ball.
                  Apphia (first Apphia died in infancy)—b. 1760; m. Capt. John Champe
                        Carter.
               
            
            
               Children of Capt. Griffen Murdock and Ann (Belfield)Fauntleroy:
                  Margaret—m. Capt. Thomas Yerley of Frederick County, 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  Belfield—d. young.
                  Mary—m. John Campbell of Kiran, Westmoreland County, 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  Ann—m. Raphael Thompson, renowned artist; removed to 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  Elizabeth—b. 1790, Mars Hill, 
                                Richmond County
                            , 
                                Virginia
                            ; m. Thomas Jones of Bathurst; d. August 31, 1865, in Frederick County, 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  Joseph—b. 1787, Mars Hill; d. 1832 at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana; m. Emily Carter Fauntleroy (first cousin; a dau. of Joseph and
                            Elizabeth Foushee Fauntleroy; moved to 
                                New Harmony
                             in 1827, attracted by the inducements of the Robert Owen movement and founding
                            of 
                                New Harmony
                            ; were accompanied to 
                                New Harmony
                             by four brothers of Emily Carter Fauntleroy; namely, William Moore Fauntleroy,
                            Laurence 
                                Butler
                             Fauntleroy, Joseph Murdock Fauntleroy, and Robert Henry Fauntleroy. Joseph who
                            married his cousin Elizabeth Foushee Fauntleroy, had eleven children, several of whom died
                            young. Of the brothers of Emily Carter Fauntleroy, wife of Joseph Fauntleroy, coming to 
                                New Harmony
                            , the record of Robert Henry Fauntleroy will be given.
               
            
            
            
               Children of Joseph and Emily C. (Fauntleroy)Fauntleroy:
               4
            
            Eliza Griffin—b. April 8, 1812, near 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               ; m. George
                    W. S. White; buried in 
                        Evansville
                     on October 1, 1875; lived in 
                        New Harmony
                    . George W. S. White was the son of Isaac White of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     fame.
            Emily C.—b. December 6, 1813, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. Nelson Nettleton, a man of means and prominence in early 
                        New Harmony
                    ; one daughter, 
                        Virginia
                    ; one son, Fauntleroy Nettleton.
            Thomas Moore—b. September 22, 1815; died unmarried.
            Frederick—b. February 7, 1818, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. Marry Trotter in 
                        Texas
                    , where they lived. They had four sons and one daughter.
            Henry—b. January 2, 1820, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. Isabella Smythe, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana; moved to 
                        Chicago
                    , bought land, and became quite wealthy; had three sons (Thomas, in whose honor the
                    story, Little Lord Fauntleroy, was named, Samuel Smythe, and Eugene Smythe).
            Josephine—b. Nov. 25, 1821, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. (1)—Baker; m. (2)—Faith; m. (3) —Fisher. Josephine
                    had one daughter by her first marriage, Emily, who married and lives in 
                        Louisville
                     with her two daughters.
            Ferdinand—b. March 16, 1824, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. Chloe Biscoe in 
                        Texas
                    ; six children; one grandchild, Schuyler William (living in 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               ).
            William Theodore—b. July 7, 1826, at Greenville, 
                        Virginia
                     ; m. Rachel Homer in 1855, English by birth, a teacher for many years, a charter member
                    of the Minerva Club of 
                        New Harmony
                    , and later made an honorary member of the General Federation of Women's Clubs;
                    b. 1830; d. 1914; husband died in 1906; both buried in 
                        New Harmony
                     Cemetery; children: Ida Eliza (b. August 10, 1856; m. Dr. I. C. Watts, of Bowling
                    Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; d. 1896; buried at 
                        Evansville
                     in the Dr. Isaac White cemetery lot) ; Homer (b. 1866; m. (1) Hanse Goodloe; m. (2)
                    Maud Miller in 1905; one son by the first marriage; Mary Emily—b. April 14, 1858; living
                    in 
                        New Harmony
                    ).
            Virginia—b. August 22, 1839, in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; m. John Preaus (a brilliant man who came from Prussia) ; 
                  
                     4 Miss Fauntleroy's record, mentioned in notes 1 and 2, tells
                            that Joseph and Emily Carter Fauntleroy were marrid on March 12. 1811. They lived near White
                            Post at 
                        Salem, Virginia
                     , and in 1827 moved to 
                                New Harmony
                            .
               
                     charter member of the Minerva Society of 
                        New Harmony
                    ; bright mind and very beautiful; removed to 
                        Louisiana
                     in 1873; five children.
            Robert Henry Fauntleroy—tenth child of Joseph and Elizabeth (Foushee) Fauntleroy and
                    brother of Emily Carter Fauntleroy, was born March 23, 1806, and died December 13, 1848. He came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1827, and married Jane Dale Owen, daughter of Robert Dale and Caroline Owen in 
                        New Harmony
                     on March 23, 1835. Robert Henry Fauntleroy5 was appointed to the
                    staff of the 
                        United States
                     Coast and Geodetic Survey, and became chief of the Coast Survey in 1846. He also made
                    the first survey of the Miami River, and built five bridges near 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            
               Children of Robert Henry and Jane Dale (Owen)Fauntleroy:
            
            Son—b. and d. in infancy in 
                        New Harmony
                    , date unknown.
            Constance Owen Fauntleroy—b. January 15, 1836; d. May, 1911; m. Rev. James Runcie, a
                    clergyman of the Episcopal Church; writer of prose and verse; organized the Minerva Society in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; husband d. in 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               , and was buried there; children:
                    Blessing Constance, (m. Elliot St. John Marchall) ; Elinor Dale, (d. Dec. 1834) ; James F. (d. 1836)
                    ; Perc Owen, (unmarried).
            Elinor Owen Fauntleroy—b. July 15, 1838; d. Nov. 19, 1909, in 
                        San Francisco
                    ; m. George Davidson (b. May 9, 1825, in Nottingham, 
                        England
                    ; assistant to Robert Henry Fauntleroy in the 
                        United States
                     Coast and Goedetic Survey; named many of the bays, inlets, and peaks of the Olympic
                    Mountains after the Fauntleroy family; complete list of his work on file in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Library; four children).
            Arthur Robert Fauntleroy—b. Jan. 11, 1842; d. Dec. 1884 of pneumonia, in Milwaukee, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , while on government work; followed closely along the scientific work of his father;
                    lived in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; loved and respected; never married.
            Edward Owen Fauntleroy—b. 1841; d. 1866, in 
                        San Francisco
                    ; was associated with his brother-in-law, George 
                  
                     5 George Rrowning Lockwood, The New Ifarmony
                            Communities (
                                Marion
                            , Ind., 1902), 267, For Robert Owen's marriage, see ibid., 66–66; Arthur H. Estabrook, "The Family History of Robert
                            Owen," in Indiana Magazine of History (March, Estabrook.1923).
                            XIX, 63–101. See also the general index to the Indiana Magazine of History. (1906–1929) for references to 
                                New Harmony
                             and the Owen family.
               
                     Davidson, and was his assistant in the western survey; never
                    married.
            It seems rather remarkable that this line should reach from 1273, Walter Fauntleroy, down to 1939,
                    still carrying the original name (Mary Emily Fauntleroy), and it is interesting to know that I am
                    descended from two brothers, of the early 1600's; the two lines having connected twice
                    after several generations. I have four Fauntleroys for my grandparents and four Fauntleroys or my
                    great-grandparents. Through this line of descent, I have been elected to the Society of Colonial
                    Dames of America on many lines, and the Daughters of the American Revolution on four lines. I am a
                    charter member of the Society of Indiana Pioneers on five lines. I had the privilege, because of my
                    inheritance, of purchasing the Old Fauntleroy Home in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In 1924, I sold this home to the Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs and it
                    has become a shrine for all club women.
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            QUERY 81: GARRETT FAMILY
            
            Jemima Amanda Garrett was born on December 7, 1817, in 
                        Bloomfield
                    , Indiana. She was the daughter of Henry and—(Dunlap) Garrett. She had
                    brothers Joseph and John; sisters Sarah, Jane, Betsy Ann, and perhaps others. She married (1) Samuel
                    McCleary, Jr., of 
                        Bloomfield
                    . They had one daughter Louisa Vellers McCleary. She died on April 28, 1897, at Avoca,
                    Jackson County, 
                        Kansas
                    . Ancestry of the Garrett family of 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana, is wanted. —C. F.
            QUERY 82: KINNAMAN-WAGGONER FAMILY
            
            Peter Kinnaman moved from Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to 
                        Daviess County
                    , Indiana, at an early date, and died in this county in 1873. His wife, Susannah
                    Waggoner was born in 1783 or 1784 in Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and died in 
                        Daviess County
                    , Indiana. They had ten children. He served in the War of 1812. Information of this
                    family in 
                        Daviess County
                     is wanted.—E.V.K.
            QUERY 83: BIDDLE FAMILY
            
            Caleb Biddle married Polly Cartwright. They came from near Elizabeth City, 
                        Pasquotank County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , to Adams Township, 
                        Madison County
                    , Indiana, in 1828. Ancestry and dates in 
                        North Carolina
                     are wanted to assist in making the record of the Biddle family in
                    Indiana.—W.G.B.
            QUERY 84: PARR FAMILY
            
            My mother was Leah Amanda Parr, born June 11, 1868, in 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana. Her father was Richard A. Parr, born April 17, 1845, in the same county. He
                    died on May 27, 1927, in 
                        Minnesota
                    . His parents, John Bloom Parr and Mary Ruth Parr (perhaps blood relatives), were born
                    and died in 
                        Crawford County
                    , Indiana, and are buried at Alton. Ancestry of this line of the Parr family is wanted.
                    —S.H.W.
            QUERY 85: FRYMIRE FAMILY
            
            David Frymire and wife Grace came to 
                        Kosciusko County
                    , Indiana, from 
                        Ohio
                    . Children: William, John, Jane,  James, Alfred,
                    Rosette, and Levi. John married Margaret McNeal, and their son David, born in 1846 in 
                        Kosciusko County
                    , was my grandfather in the maternal line. Other children of John and Margaret were:
                    Samuel, Sarah, Harvey, Victoria, Nelson, John. I am trying to trace this family, and will appreciate
                    dates and other information.—B.L.
            QUERY 86: DENUNE HOWARD FAMILY
            
            Denune Howard was born about 1760, and married Anne Anderson of Frederick County, 
                        Maryland
                    , in 1786. He died in 1842, aged about 82 years, and his wife died in 1837, aged 78
                    years. Mrs. Elizabeth Howard Hunt, of Modoc, 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana, is a great-great-granddaughter. Denune Howard and Anne had eight children:
                    William, Rachel, Absolem, Brice, Harvey, Sarah (married a Morris), Cornelius, and George. Was Denune
                    Howard a son of Benjamin and Eleanor McCubbin Howard?—Mrs. Ida Helen McCarty, Pennville,
                    Indiana.
            Answer to Query 60 (June, 1938, pp. 251–52, N.E.H.): Regarding the Yount family in 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, Catherine Yount, wife of David Hoover, who laid out and named
                            
                  Richmond, Wayne
                        County
               , was the daughter of Jacob Yount, who was a brother of George Yount
                    (Georg Jundt). David and Catherine Yount were my great-grandparents. Dr. William M. Reser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, gave a complete history of the Yount family at its homecoming, August 3,
                    1930, and has had printed a record of the Waymire family giving Yount connections. The
                        Centennial Portrait & Biographical Record of the City of 
                            Dayton
                         and 
                            Montgomery
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        
                (1897) gives much of the Yount family in 
                        Ohio
                    . See also National Genealogical Society Quarterly, XVII, nos. 1, 2, 4
                    (March, June, and December, 1929)—Mrs. Paul L. Ross, 30 S. 2nd St., 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 72 (December, 1938, p. 496, U.S.): Among the first land owners in 
                        Daviess County
                    , Indiana, was Richard Steen who entered the S.W. quarter of Sec. 4, Tp. 2, R. 7, on May
                    20, 1808. In 1811–1812, Richard Steen was among those who sought protection in William
                    Ballow's Fort, with children James, John, and Samuel Steen. 
                        Daviess County
                     was organized in 1817. The first school was held in  the county as early as 1811. Included among the pupils were: Samuel Steen, John Steen, Margaret
                    Steen, and Ella Steen.1 A William Steen is found in the 1790 census of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (p. 97). The record mentions a wife and one child under sixteen. Others of name Steen
                    mentioned are: Andrew, Robert, Thomas, William, Zachariah, and Hugh. The copies of the 1820 and 1830
                    Census Reports of Indiana in the Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library will assist
                    research. —M.T.M.
            Answer to Query 74 (December, 1938, p. 497, W.I.U.): John Groendyke married Sarah Lake of
                            
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , on August 25, 1744. Children: Samuel (b. December
                    22, 1745; d. 1802; captain and major of Second Regiment of 
                        New Jersey
                     Militia) ;2 Daniel (b. August 15, 1747) ; Nicholas (b. March 30,
                    1749) ; Moyeah (b. December 20, 1751) ; Christopher (b. December 26, 1753; buried at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana) ; John (b. June 5, 1756; d. November 1, 1824; buried at Eugene, Indiana; a
                    Revolutionary soldier); Abraham (b. April 8, 1758) ; Isaac (b. May 26, 1760) ; Eleanor (b. June 4,
                    1762) ; Jacob (b. August 19, 1764.)
            John Groendyke, Jr., (1756–1824) served as a private in the Revolutionary War as a member
                    of the Middlesex County, 
                        New Jersey
                    , Militia.3 He was married on March 30, 1797, to Lucretia de
                        Rapalje4 (b. 1777, near Kingston, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; d. April 15, 1825; buried at Eugene, Indiana). Lucretia was the daughter of Jacobus de
                    Rapalje and granddaughter of Jeromus de Rapalje. The grandfather and father, as well as the husband
                    of Lucretia served in the Revolutionary War.5 The foregoing record and
                    regulation bronze markers were furnished to Mrs. Ora A. Doyle, Regent of Brouillet Chapter, D.A.R.,
                    by John D. Colett, and dedicatory rites were held at the graves on June 22, 1930, by this chapter.
                    The children of John Groendyke, Jr. and wife were: James (b. February 12, 1798; d. January 23, 1856;
                    m. Sarah Colman, or Cole-man) ; Sansbury (b. June 24, 1800; d. April 30, 1831; m. Jane Mars) ;
                    Jeremiah (b. October 25, 1801; d. Nov., 1805) ; Samuel (b. January 25, 1803; d. May 19, 1860; m.
                    Lacy 
                  
                     1
                            Illustrated Historical AUaa of Indiana, 1876. 246, 47.
                  
                     2 William S. Stryker. comp., Official Register of the
                                Officers and Men of 
                                    New Jersey
                                 in the Revolutionary War (Trenton, 1872), 342.
                  
                     3
                     Ibid., 612.
                  
                     4 Rappleyea or Rapalye.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 729.
               
                     Thompson) ; Sarah (b. July 6, 1804; d. March 2, 1852; m.
                    Stephen S. Collett) ; Mary Jane (b. May 1, 1809; d. October 18, 1834; m. Asaph Hill) ; Eleanor (b.
                    February 14, 1811; d. September 22, 1833; m. Josephus Collett) ; Lucretia (b. February 9, 1814; d.
                    August 18, 1822).
            James Groendyke (1798–1856) married Sarah Colman at Eugene, Indiana on May 22, 1831.
                    Children: Daughter (b. April 29, 1832; d. in infancy) ; John (b. December 24, 1833; d. September 20,
                    1886, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana; served in the Civil War, in an Indiana Company; m. Ellen M. Shaw) ; Ann (b.
                    November 11, 1835; d. June, 1909; m. Dr. J. M. McMeen) ; James (b. June 25, 1837; d. October, 1838)
                    ; Lucy (b. December 6, 1838; d. March 14, 1870; m. R. H. Ellis, no issue) ; Henry (b. January 28,
                    1841; d. September 16, 1863, at Vicks-burg, 
                        Mississippi
                    , while a member of Company K, 11th Regiment, Indiana Infantry Volunteers; unmarried) ;
                    Eliza (b. February 15, 1847; d. May 26, 1916; m. J. V. Malsbury) ; Sarah (b. January 20, 1849; d.
                    infancy) ; Nancy (b. April 4, 1855; d. June 10, 1916; m. W. H. Woodard, no issue).
            John Groendyke, who married Ellen M. Shaw, has one daughter living, Mrs. Sarah Groendyke Coffeen, a
                    widow who lives at 424 N. Madison Avenue, Pasadena, 
                        California
                    . Eliza Groendyke, who married J. V. Malsbury, has one daughter living, Mrs. Mannelia M.
                    Mathias, whose address is R. R. 2, Del Morte, 
                        Colorado
                    . The family name was formerly spelled Groenendyke—John D. Collett, 1202,
                    Fletcher Trust Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Records from the Granny White Cemetery1
            
            
               Allen, Daniel Boon—b. May 30, 1840 (no death date).
               Allen, Hannah—b. Jan. 17, 1858; d. June 4, 1886.
               Allen, William—b. May 31, 1825; d. Feb. 28, 1874.
               Bagwell, Andrew J.—b. March 10, 1882; aged 63 yrs.
               
                  
                            Boston
                        , Charlott Belle—dau. W. L. and Sara 
                            Boston
                        ; d. Feb. 18, 1866; aged 9 yrs. 10 mos. 25 days.
               Chess, Henry Howard—b. July 18, 1902; d. Nov. 7, 1902.
               Clendenin, Hannah—b. March 9, 1838.
               Clendenin, Myrah—b. Aug. 10, 1810 (or 1840).
               Clendenin, Vilet—b. Jan. 9, 1836.
               Clendennin, — (dates effaced by weathering).
               Cumings, Elizabeth—b. Dee. 22, 1759; d. Apr. 21, 1847.
               Elston, Sarah A.—b. Jan. 10, 1811; d. Feb. 6, 1886.
               Elston, Thomas M.—b. Aug. 7, 1806; d. Oct. 14, 1870.
               Flinn, Jane—b. May 27, 1810 (or 1840).
               
                  
                            Fountain
                        , Essie Z.—dau. of J. C. and R. Fountain; b. Sept. 20, 1888; d. Feb. 3,
                        1889. 
                            Fountain
                        , Homer H.—son of Rebecca and J. C. Fountain; b. Nov. 5, 1885; d. July
                        21, 1887. 
                            Fountain
                        , Rebecca—wife of J. C. Fountain; b. Jan. 31, 1863; d. May 2, 1900.
                        Gutherie, Leannah (Leannan)—b. May 8, 1817; d. Dee. 9, — (year effaced).
               Guthery, Anjeline—b. Dee. 15, 1838.
               Guthrey, Hiram—b. Nov. 16, 1832; d. July 27, 1833.
               Guthrey, Irey—b. May 1, 1834.
               Guthrey, Mary Ann—b. May 2, 1824; d. Dec. 29, —year effaced).
               Guthrie, Elizabeth—b. Mar. 16, 1787; d. June 5, 1867.
               Guthrie, Hugh—d. July 17, 1873; aged 54 yrs. 9 mos. 23 days.
               Guthrie, Isabel—". May 4, 1816; d. Mar. 19, 1845.
               Guthrie, Jane Rogers—d. Jan., 1928; aged 101 yrs. 7 mos.
               Guthrie, Hugh—1818–1873—Jane, 1827–1928.2
               
               Guthrie, Jacob—son of Hugh and Jane Guthrie; d. Oct. 11, 1860; aged 10 yrs. 1 mo. 9
                        days. 
                     
                        1 This is an abandoned cemetery located near Leesville, Lawrence
                                County. Indians. The records were copied from the gravestones by Miss Esther A. Darr and
                                Mra. Goldie M. Carr of Brownstown, Indiana, and Mrs. Bernice S. Martin of 
                                    Bedford
                                . Indiana.
                     
                        2 The Guthrie stone has been erected in recent years. It carries
                                the names of Hugh Guthrie and Jane. The latter, Jane Rogers Guthrie, was the wife of
                                Hugh. Both names are found on older stones, and both are listed twice.
                  
               
               
               Guthrie, John—b. Nov. 8, 1785; d. Nov. 6, 1851.
               Guthrie, John C.-b. Nov. 12, 1843; d. Apr. 11, 1848.
               Guthrie, Margaret—dau. of H. and J. Guthrie; b. Mar. 28, 1862; d. May 11, 1862.
               Guthrie, Nancy—b. Oct. 1, 1838.
               Guthrie, Pelina—b. Nov. 4, 1827; d. July 12, 1848.
               Harrison, William—b. Jan. 26, 1785; d. Jan. 28, 1844 (or 1854).
               Henderson, Edith—dau. of J. R. and A. Henderson—d. Mar. 12, 1885; aged 6
                        days.
               Henderson, Frances G.—dau. of J. R. and Anna H.; b. June 19, 1886; d. Sept. 10,
                        1886.
               Henderson, Ralph E.—son of J. R. and A. Henderson; b. July 29, 1887; d. Sept. 25,
                        1887.
               Holland, Euretta—wife of J. Holland; b. Dec. 27, 1816; d. Mar. 13, 1908.
               Holland, John—b. Dec. 30, 1814; d. Oct. 24, 1875.
               Holland, John R.—b. July 25, 1852; d. Apr. 5, 1880.
               Holland, Lula May—dau. of W. A. and Mary C. A. Holland; b. June 27, 1881; d. Aug.
                        25, 1881.
               Holland, Mary Jane—wife of Wm. A. Holland; b. June 15, 1830; d. July 15, 1868.
               Holland, Melinda—dau. of John and Euretta Holland; b. Oct. 15, 1840; d. Oct. 28,
                        1841.
               Holland, Phetna—wife of Wm. Holland; b. Jan. 16, 1805; d. Dec. 20, 1863.
               Holland, Phetnam—dau. of John and Euretta Holland; b. July 2, 1842; d. Dec. 18,
                        1849.
               Holland, Samuel—infant son of W. A. and M. J. Holland; d. Feb. 1, 1857; aged 9 mos.
               Holland, Thomas—son of John and Euretta Holland; b. Jan. 5, 1856; d. Sept. 28,
                        1863.
               Holland, Wm. A.—b. Sept. 5, 1830; d. June 17, 1905.
               Hughes, John L.—son of M. and L. Hughes; b. Oct. 17, 1852; d. Apr. 17, 1853.
               Hughes, Lucy—wife of Martin Hughes; b. Sept. 14, 1823; d. Apr. 26, 1890.
               Hughes, Martin—b. Jan. 27, 1817; d. Mar. 29, 1904.
               Hughes, Mary E.—dau. of M. and L. Hughes; Sept. 20, 1850; June 25, 1859.
               Hughes, Wm. H.—son of M. and L. Hughes; b. May 28, 1856; d. Sept: 1868.
               
               May, George—b. Jan. 28, 1786; d. Sept. 29, 1870; Lincoln Co., Ky., Militia, War of
                        1812.
               May, Hannah—b. Sept. 24, 1803; d. Mar. 26, 1895.
               Newkirk, Benjamine—b. Jan. 29, 1812; d. Mar. 5, 1887.
               Newkirk, Eupha—wife of Benjamine Newkirk; b. July 28, 1818; d. June 11, 1863.
               Nixon, Nora D.—dau. of F. T. and A. E. Nixon; b. Sept. 29, 1880; d. Nov. 26, 1884.
               Rogers, Lilly—dau. of A. D. and N. Rogers; d. June 20, 1861; aged 26 yrs. 4 mos. 9
                        days.
               Smith, Holland—b. May 8, 1868; d. Jan. 28, 1878.
               Smith, Oscar—(dates hidden by large tree).
               Smith, Sally—b. June 29, 1838; d. Feb. 23, 1907.
               Smith, Dr. W. H.—b. Sept. 5, 1830; d. Oct. 30, 1911.
               Sutherland, Lockey—b. Mar. 28, 1814; d. July 23, 1839.
               White, David—b. Feb. 25, 1774; d. Jan. 10, 1842.
               White, Sally3—b. Oct. 27, 1785; d. Jan. 21, 1879.
               Wray, Polly—b. Nov. 15, 1783; d. Feb. 28, 1843. 
                     
                        3 Sally White is the "Granny White" whose log
                                home has been restored in Spring Mill Park. David White was her second husband.
                                Elizabeth Cumings (see above) was Granny White's mother. The Granny White
                                Cemetmy is overgrown with trees, bushes, and briers. Many graves are marked only with
                                rough slabs. No doubt other stones are completely covered. The Granny White Cemetery and
                                the Elijah Allen cemetery are the two oldest cemeteries in Lawrence
                                County—B.S.M.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            Early 
                        Clark County
                     Wills and Executor's Records1 (Abstracts and Notes)
            DOROTHY RIKER
            
            
               Fait, Henrg. Administrators, Henry, George, and Margaret Fait, appointed July 18,
                    1801. Bond, $7000. Securities: Thomas Downs, William Goodwin, Peter Stacy (
                        Clark County
                     Will Record A, 1801–1817, 1).
            
               Stootsman, Joseph. Administrator, widow Rachel Stootsman, appointed August 31,
                    1802. Bond, $1200. Securities: Jacob Stootsman, Sr., Samuel Stootsman (ibid., 3).
            
               Tuleg, Charles P. Administrator, Captain George Wood, appointed September 29, 1802,
                    at request of widow, Betsy Tuley. Bond, $1000. Securities: George Huckleberry, Sr., Peter
                    McDonald (ibid., 4).
            
               Martin, James. Administrator, John McClintick, appointed April 25, 1804. Bond,
                    $800. Securities: Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                    , James Stewart (ibid., 5). Appraisement of personal property and bill
                    of sale (ibid., 178–79).
            
               Bradford, William. Will dated May 4, 1804; probated August 8, 1804. Heirs: wife,
                    Susannah Bradford. Executors: Susannah Bradford, Davis Floyd. Witnesses: Job Guest, William
                    Hawthorn, Steven Harmon (ibid., 6–7).
            
               Stootsman, John. Administrator, Daniel Stootsman, appointed December 17, 1804.
                    Bond, $800. Securities: Jacob and David Stootsman (ibid., 8).
            
               Smith, William. Will dated January 31, 1804; probated February 18, 1805. Heirs:
                    wife, Patsey Smith, and sons, Peter, John, and James. Executor, Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                    . Witnesses: Samuel Gwathmey, William Prather, George Wood, Peter Smith (ibid., 9–10).
            
               McGuire, William. Will dated October 4, 1805; probated October 26, 1805. Heirs:
                    wife, Elizabeth McGuire, and children (not named with the exception of a daughter Martha).
                    Executors: Elizabeth McGuire and James N. Wood. Witnesses: James and Nancy McCoy (ibid., 11–13.)
            
               Dorseg, Bales. Will dated June 19, 1806; probated September 2, 1806. Heirs:
                    children, Thomas, Betsey, Margaret, Richard, Ely, Susanna, Bales, George, Mark. Executors: George
                    Wood and James Davis. Witnesses: John Douthitt, John Ferguson, Hugh Kelley (ibid.,
                    14–15).
            
               Anderson, James. Inventory and appraisement of personal estate made by John
                    Pottorff and Nicholas Harmon, December 23, 1806. Filed January 1807 (ibid.,
                    16–17).
            
               Moore, Robert K. Will dated April 20, 1806; probated July Tgrm, 1807. Heirs: wife,
                    Catharine (Prince) Moore, James Sneed, of 
                  Jefferson
                        County, Kentucky
                [relationship not
                    indicated]. Executors: 
                  
                     1 Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana, Will Record A. 1801–1817, and Will Record B,
                            1817–1833, made for the Historical Records Survey, Works Progress Administrdion,
                            in 1936. and deposited in the Archives Division of the Indiana State Library.
               
                     James Sneed, Cuthbert Bullitt, Thomas Prather, of 
                        Kentucky
                    . No witnesses given, but will was proved by Thomas T. Davis, Worden Pope, Marston G.
                    Clark, Willis W. Goodwin, John Thompson, Samuel Gwathmey (ibid.,
                    17–18).
            
               Kelly, Samuel. Will dated November 7, 1806; probated July Term, 1807. Heirs:
                    brother, John Kelly, in trust for heirs not named. Executor, William McMean. Witnesses: William
                    Lockhard (or Lockart), Joseph Pound, James Stout (ibid., 19).
            
               Scott, James, Sr. Died September 9, 1807. Nuncupative will of September 4, 1807;
                    probated October Term, 1807. Heirs, wife, Charlotte. Witnesses: Isaac Holman, Bazil R. Prather (ibid., 20).
            
               Jones, George. Will dated August 13, 1806; probated January 9, 1808. Heirs: wife,
                    Jane Jones; stepdaughter, Polly Archer; sister, Polly Jones. Executors: Samuel Gwathmey, Davis
                    Floyd. Witnesses: Susanne Floyd, Polly L. Floyd, Davis Floyd. Will proved by Davis Floyd, Robert A.
                    New, Gabriel I. Johnston (ibid., 21–22).
            
               Wilson, James. Will dated March 20, 1806; probated March 7, 1808. Heirs: sons,
                    George and John; daughter, Jane. Executor: Samuel Kaufman. Witnesses: Aquilla Rogers, Andrew Spears,
                    Mary Kaufman (ibid., 23–24). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B,
                    1817–33, 134).
            
               Robertson, James.
               2 Will dated December 9, 1780; filed September
                    Term, 1808. Heir: Philip Barbour, of Natchez, 
                        Tennessee
                    . Executor: Philip Barbour. Witnesses: Thomas Pollock, John Allen, Joseph Rotunge (?).
                    Will produced by Philip Barbour, Jr., and proved by George Rogers Clark, Davis Floyd, James N. Wood.
                    Protested by John Berry, William Ferguson, Jesse Turpin (ibid., Vol. A.
                    23–32).
            
               Perdun, Margaret. Will dated September 27, 1808; probated October 25, 1808. Heirs:
                    grandchildren, Sarah and Elizabeth Righthouse. No executor named. Witnesses: Sarah Fouts, Abraham
                    Vanvel (?), John Vanvel (?), Mary Hacket (ibid., 33–34).
            
               McKlane (or McClean), Bernard. Administrator,
                    Josn Vawter, appointed December 1, 1809. Bond, $400. Securities: Willis W. Goodwin,
                    Robert A. New (ibid. 34). Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 44–51).
            
               Coombs, Willium. Will dated April 9, 1810; codicil added April 10; probated May
                    Term, 1810. Heirs: wife, Nancy Coombs; children, John, Jesse, William, Margaret. Executors: Thomas
                    Carr, Nancy Coombs. Witnesses: James McCoy, William Reed, Elisha Carr (ibid.,
                    35–36). Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid.,
                    114–19).
            
               Hay, John. Will dated October 24, 1810; probated November 5, 1810. Heirs: wife,
                    Nancy Hay; children, Andrew, Anne,3
                    
                        Milton
                    , Nancy, Harry, Warefield, Julia, and 
                        Campbell
                    . Executors: Nancy Hay, 
                  
                     2 Robertson had been allotted 2,166 acres of land in Clark's
                            Grant for his servicea as lieutenant in George Rogers Clark's army. The will was
                            certified in French on June 17, 1782, by Carlos de Grand PrC, commandant of the Spanish
                            Province of 
                                New Orleans
                            . Further proceedinm nre to he found in 
                                Clark County
                             Will Record B, 1817–83. pp. 79–84. The Official Plat of
                            Clark's Grant, made by William Clark, 1789–1810. shows that P. Barhour.
                            Jr. waa granted a deed to Robertson's land on November 27. 1809.
                  
                     3 Anne (or Ann) Hay was married to Jonathan Jenninm on August 8, 1811. 
                                Clark County
                             Marriage Records, Vol. A, 7.
               
                     John McClung, James Scott. Witnesses: B. Wood, John T. Chunn,
                    John Denny (ibid., 37).
            
               Guest, Bazel. Will dated December 28, 1810; probated March 4, 1811. Heirs: wife,
                    Rachel Guest, and daughter Anne. Executor: Ra chel Guest. Witnesses: Richard Mosley, Elizabeth Crew
                        (ibid., 38–39). McCann, Moses. Will and codicil
                    dated March 4, 1811; probated March 20, 1811. Heir, son Thomas. Executor, James N. Wood. Witr
                    nesses: John K. Graham, Joseph Stroud, John Conner (ibid., 39–41).
                    Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale filed June 15, 1812 (ibid.,
                    57–71).
            
               Boldorson (?) Andrew. Will dated November —, 1811;
                    probated November 30, 1811. Heirs: children, Betsy, Henry, Polly, Sally, John, Fany (or Lang?),
                    Daniel, Thomas, David, Peter, Eve. Executors: John Miller, Isaac Holman. Witnesses: Peter Etter,
                    Gaspar Pope (ibid., 42–43).
            
               Hutchings (or Hutchens), Joseph. Administrator,
                    son Stephen, appointed March 31, 1812. Bond, not given. Securities: Charles Bullock, Davis Floyd
                        (ibid., 51). Appraisement of personal property presented June 8, 1812 (ibid., 64–67).
            
               Malott, Joseph. Died March 25, 1812. Nuncupative will of that date presented April
                    8, 1812 by John Daily and James Davis. Heir: wife (name not given, but probably Catherine as she
                    purchased a number of items of. the estate). Administrator, father-in-law, Philip Daily. Securities:
                    James Davis and Jacob Daily (ibid. 52–53). Appraisement of personal
                    property and bill of sale returned April 18 and 26, 1812 (ibid.,
                    72–76).
            
               Shake, George. Appraisement of personal property by Patrick Welch, Davis Floyd,
                    Joseph Pound, made April 19, 1811 (ibid., 54–58). Barnaby,
                        Mathew. Administrator, Robert Barnaby, appointed May 14, 1812. Bond, $400.
                    Securities: John Ferguson, James Mc-
                        Campbell
                     (ibid., 58–59). Appraisement of personal property made
                    June 5, 1812 (Vol. B, 155–56).
            
               Clendenon (or Clendenning ?), Thomas.
                    Administrator, widow Elenor, appointed June 13, 1812. Bond, $300. Securities: James
                    Alexander, Isaac Watkins (ibid., Vol. A, 59). Appraisement of personal property
                    made June 22, 1812 (Vol. B, 163).
            
               Roby, Townley. Administrators, widow Rebecca and William Ellis, appointed July 10,
                    1812. Bond, $600. Securities: Henry Bottorff, Abraham Epler (ibid.,
                    Vol. A, 62). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B, 136–37).
            
               Hollis, Sarah. Administrator, Willis W. Goodwin, appointed September 22, 1812.
                    Bond, $500. Securities: John Douthitt, James Zenor (ibid., Vol. A, 63).
                    Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B, 149–59). Bloom, Peter.
                    Appraisement of personal property made October 19, 1808 by John Thompson and Robert A. New. Bill of
                    sale, November 1, 1808 (ibid., Vol. A, 77–80).
            
               Domont, Barbara. Will dated October 6, 1802; probated June 13, 1812. Heirs: son
                    Jesse and granddaughters, Lane (Jane) and Sarah Bowman, daughters of Aaron Bowman. Executor: Aaron
                    Bowman,  son-in-law (ibid., 81–82).
                    Appraisement of personal property Vol. B, 148).
            
               Ward, Richard. Administrator, brother, John Ward, appointed March 27, 1813. Bond,
                    $100. Securities: James Sweney (or Seveney?), David Smith (ibid., Vol.
                    A, 83).
            
               Summers, James. Administrator, brother-in-law, John B. Pittman, appointed April 19,
                    1813. Bond, $160. Securities: John Gibson, George Bratton (ibid.,
                    83–84). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B), 137.
            
               Kelley, Cornelius. Administrator, Elias Kelley, appointed May 3, 1813. Bond,
                    $80. Securities: John Ferguson, James Kelley (ibid., Vol. A,
                    84–85).
            
               Hutcheson, John. Administrator, Thomas Hutcheson, appointed May 3, 1813. Bond,
                    $120. Securities: John Ferguson, William P. Meredith (ibid., 85).
            
               Gibson, Thomas. Administrator, John Gibson, appointed May 7, 1813. Bond,
                    $100. Securities: Alexander Buckner, William P. Meredith (ibid., 86).
            
               Goodwin, George. Administrator, William Goodwin, appointed May 7, 1813. Bond,
                    $300. Securities: John Ferguson, James Curry (ibid., 87). Appraisement
                    of personal property (Vol. B, 143–44).
            
               Fisler, William. Administrator, John Fisler, appointed May 11, 1813. Bond,
                    $200. Securities: John Ferguson, George Ross (ibid., Vol A, 88).
            
               Warnock, Joseph. Administrator, Michael Warnock, appointed May 17, 1813. Bond,
                    $200. Securities: James McCampbell, John Ferguson (ibid.,
                    88–89). Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B, 127–28).
            
               Jones, Henry. Administrator, widow May, appointed May 20, 1813. Bond,
                    $250. Securities: Robert Breeze, Sr., Joseph Johnston (ibid., Vol. A,
                    89–90).
            
               Sigman, Barnett. Administrator, John Eldridge, appointed September 25, 1813. Bond,
                    $500. Securities: James Scott, John Ferguson (ibid., 90).
            
               McCoy, William. Will dated July 9, 1813; probated October 7, 1813. Heirs: wife
                    Elizabeth; children, James, Isaac,4 John, Royce, Mrs. Sarah Payne, Mrs. Lydia
                    Little (or Littell ?). Executor: James Lemon. Witnesses: James Lemon, Jesse Coombs, Royce McCoy.
                    Lemon withdrew as executor on October 7 and the court appointed James McCoy and the widow, Elizabeth
                    McCoy, as administrators (ibid., 91–92, 105–8).
            
               Alexander, James. Administrators, widow Elizabeth and Samuel Stewart, appointed
                    October 20, 1813. Bond, $500. Securities: James Scott, James Bigger. (ibid., 92–93). Appraisement of personal property (ibid.,
                    150–52).
            
               Cosner, John. Administrator, father, Henry Cosner, appointed Kovember 25, 1813.
                    Bond, $200. Securities: John Weathers, John Ferguson (ibid., 93).
            
               
                  4 This is the Isaac McCoy who became a missionary to the Indians. The
                        father, William McCoy, had been a DWtor of the Silver Creek Baptist Church in 
                            Clark County
                        
               
            
            
            
               Stewart, James. Administrator, Merchant Stewart, appointed February 14, 1814. Bond,
                    $500. Securities: Samuel Reynolds, George Ross (ibid., 94).
                    Appraisement of personal property (Vol. B, 138–39).
            
               Mosley, Richard. Administrator, Andrew Fait, appointed April 29, 1814. Bond,
                    $300. Securities: James Lemon and [name omitted] (ibid., Vol. A,
                95).
         
         
            INDIANA CENSUS RECORDS OF 1820 AND 1830
            The indexing, on cards, of heads of families as recorded in the photostat copies of the original
                    census records of Indiana for 1820 and 1830, which was instituted in the Genealogy Section of the
                    Indiana State Library, has been completed and the cards are now on file in the Genealogy room.
            The compilation of this index was begun in March, 1936, and finished by March, 1939. The work was
                    done almost altogether by three persons, Miss Leona E. Tobey, assistant in the Genealogy Section,
                    who had full direction; Mr. Louie B. O'Neel, who assisted largely with the checking and
                    editing; and Miss Nerine Roberts, who typed the majority of the cards.
            Many difficulties were encountered in the process of the work, chief among which were the variances
                    in spelling, the deciphering of the old handwriting, and, in some cases, the almost illegibility of
                    the records. To insure accuracy a system of checking and rechecking was followed.
            Over 80,000 cards were necessary. Each card contains the name of the head of the family, the year of
                    the census (1820 or 1830), the county under which the name is recorded, and the reference by volume
                    and page to the photostat records. These photostat copies to which the index refers consist of six
                    volumes for 1820, and seventeen for 1830. They are arranged by county, and each contains the name of
                    the head of the family, the number, but not names, of members of the family with their approximate
                    ages.
            The Indiana Historical Society and the Society of Indiana Pioneers made noteworthy contributions to
                    the purchase of cards for the project.
            By means of this index, it is now possible to locate readily any head of a family in any county in
                    Indiana in 1820 or 1830. The index will be a valuable aid not only as a means of establishing
                    one's ancestors in the early history of Indiana, but as a guide to localities where one
                    might expect to find information.—Anna Poucher, Head, Genealogy Section,
                        Indiana State Library.
            
         
         
         
            A Bibliography for Genealogists
            JAMES A. RAWLEY
            
            This bibliography makes no pretense to completeness. It is frankly an effort to bring to the
                    attention of the novice in genealogy a list of those works helpful to him, with a brief description
                    of their nature. It is also hoped, however, that a few of the works included will be new to those
                    who have been working in genealogy for some time. The emphasis is sharply limited. Only those works
                    and magazines of general significance, rather than individual family histories or local records are
                    listed. Further, very few foreign works are included. In any case the genealogist must, in a
                    measure, compile his own bibliography. It is intended that this list will facilitate that end and
                    his search. The compiler is indebted to Miss Anna Poucher, the Librarian of the Genealogy Section,
                    Indiana State Library, for checking this list and making valuable suggestions.
            
               
                  Abridged Compendium of American Genealogy: First Families of America: A
                            Genealogical Encyclopedia of the 
                                United States
                            .
                        
                            Chicago
                        : A. N. Marquis and Company, 1925–1937. (In the six volumes published by
                        1937 there are 45,000 lineages and 375,000 ancestors listed. Pictures and coats of arms are
                        included.)
               
                  A Census of Pensioners for Revolutiomq OT Military Services.
                        
                            Washington
                        : Blair and Rives, 1841. (This work includes names, ages and places of residence, as
                        listed by the federal marshals of the judicial districts for the sixth census.)
               
                  Almanuch de Gotha. Gotha: Justus Perthes. (A German annual: the series has
                        been published since 1763 to the present. It consists of the genealogies of distinguished
                        European houses, both royal and non-royal.)
               American Historical Society, Incorporated. Americana. Somerville, 
                            New Jersey
                        . (A quarterly journal of history, genealogy, heraldry, and literature. Its emphasis
                        inclines to substantial articles from 2,000 to 10,000 words.)
               
                  American Genealogist: Being a Catalog of Family Histohes.
                        
                            Albany
                        : Joel Munsell's Sons, 1900. (A bibliography of American genealogy or a
                        list of the title pages of books and phamphlets on family history published in American from
                        1777 to 1900.)
               Bolton, Ethel Stanwood, and Coe, Eva Johnston. American Samplers.
                        
                            Boston
                        : The 
                            Massachusetts
                         Society of the Colonial Dames of America, 1921. (Contains illustrations of samplers
                        bearing genealogical data.)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Boston
                             Transcript. (This paper carries a column, Genealogical,
                        daily until January 21, 1939. Since this date the column has appeared each Saturday.)
               Burke, Sir John Bernard, A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Peerage and
                            Baronetage and the Privy Council and Knightage.
                        
                            London
                        : Burke's Peerage, Ltd., 1937. 95th edition. (This is the standard
                        genealogical and heraldic history of the English aristocracy.)
               
                  Catalogue of Genealogies and Local Histories.
                        
                            Boston
                        : Goodspeed's Bookshop. (Issued at intervals of two or three years, this
                        lists those works published by this bookshop. The catalogue has the merit of recency and low
                        cost (ten cents), but the defect of being limited to the works of the publishing house.)
               Colonial Dames of the State of 
                            New York
                        . Catalogue of the Genealogical and Historical Library of the Colonial
                            Dames of the State of 
                                New York
                            .
                        
                            New York
                        : published by the Society, 1912.
               Daughters of the American Revolution. Daughters of the American Revolution
                            Magazine.
                        
                            Washington
                        : published by the Society. (Before 1913 this was The American Monthly
                            Magazine. It contains biographies, articles on history, historic places and ancestry,
                        records and queries.)
               Daughters of the American Revolution. Lineage Book of the National Society of the
                            Daughters of the American Revolution.
                        
                            Harrisburg
                        : 
                            Harrisburg
                         Publishing Company. (More than 160 volumes have been published since 1890, giving
                        the lineages of the members of the society. The first 80 volumes only are indexed.)
               Doane, Gilbert Harry. Searching for Your Ancestors.
                        
                            New York
                        : Whittlesey House, 1937. (One of the best works, if not the best, for the beginning
                        genealogist. It details a wealth of valuable and sound advice, gained from a wide experience.)
               
                  Handbook of American Genealogy.
                        
                            Chicago
                        : The Institute of American Genealogy, 1937. Vol. III. (This work lists genealogies
                        in the course of compilation with the name and address of the compiler, and a
                        "Who's Who in Genealogy". It is extremely helpful for the exchange of
                        information between genealogists.)
               
                  Heads of Families at the First Census of the 
                                United States
                             Taken in the Year 1790.
                        
                            Washington
                        : Government Printing Office, 1907–1908. (With a volume for each state,
                        these census records present so far as possible the heads of families in 1790. The records for
                                
                     Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, New Jersey, Tennessee
                  , and 
                            Virginia
                         were destroyed by fire in 1812. In lieu of the 
                            Virginia
                         schedules which are missing the lists of the state enumerations made in
                        1782–1785 have been used. Similar census records exist for 1820 and 1830.)
               
               Hinshaw, William Wade. Encyclopedia of American 
                                Quaker
                             Genealogy.
                        
                            Ann Arbor
                        : Edwards Brothers, Incorporated, Volume I, 1936, Vol. 11, 1938. (A collection of
                        the records of Friends' Monthly Meetings during the 18th and 19th centuries,)
               Hughes, Thomas P. American Ancestry.
                        
                            Albany
                        : Joel Munsell's Sons, 1887–1899. The twelve volumes constitute
                        a partial list of the names and descent in the male line of Americans whose ancestors settled in
                        the 
                            United States
                         prior to 1776. Vol. I is for 
                            Albany
                        ; Volume II 
                            Columbia County
                        ; and Vols. III to XII for the entire 
                            United States
                        .)
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library. Publication Number Eighteen of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library.
                        
                            Springfield
                        : 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, 1914. (In 1919 a supplement, Number 25, was issued, and
                        since 1919 each annual volume of the Transactions of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society has contained a list of genealogies acquired during the
                        previous year.)
               
                  Index to American Genealogies.
                        
                            Albany
                        : Joel Munsell's Sons, 1900, 5th edition. (The advantage of the Index is that it not only lists genealogical works, but it also indexes
                        material embodied in those works, which is therefore more readily found. A Supplement was issued for 1900 to 1908.)
               Jacobus, Donald Lines. Index to Genealogical Periodicals.
                        
                            New Haven
                        : 1932. (This index is continued and kept up to date in the April number of each
                        year of The American Genealogist.)
               
                  
                            Jordan
                        , David Starr, and Kimball, Sarah Louise. Your Family Tree. 
                            New York
                        : D. Appleton and Company, 1929. (This work attempts to indicate some of the
                        scientific aspects of genealogy, drawing its examples from prominent American and British
                        Families. Many of the genealogies in it have been found to be notoriously inaccurate.)
               Library of Congress. American and English Genealogies in the Library of Congress.
                        
                            Washington
                        : Government Printing Office, 1919. Second edition. (The catalog included nearly
                        7,000 titles of American and English genealogies received up to August 1, 1919.)
               Library of Congress. Naval Records of the American Revolution,
                            1775–1788.
                        
                            Washington
                        : Government Printing Office, 1906. (The records prepared from the originals in the
                        Library of Congress are fragmentary and references to names are occasional and scattered.)
               List of Titles of Genealogical Articles in American Periodicals and Kindred
                            Works.
                        
                            Albany
                        : Joel Munsell's Sons, 1899. (This work lists the name, residence, and
                        earliest date of the first American settler of each family.)
               Long Island Historical Society. Catalogue of American Genealogies in the Library
                            of the Long Island Historical Society.
                        
                            Brooklyn
                        : Long Island Historical Society, 1935. (The catalogue lists over 8,000  books dealing with genealogy, as well as about 850 manuscripts,
                        typescripts, and photostat copies of original wills, etc.)
               
                  Magazine of the Institute of American Genealogy.
                        
                            Chicago
                        : Vol. I, 1926. (Beginning in August, 1926, the magazine has given a segment of the
                        alphabet, as Aa-Ac, with bibliographical indexes to the surnames included. No issue has been
                        published since 1934.)
               Meade, William. Old Churches, Ministers and Families of 
                                Virginia
                            .
                        
                            Philadelphia
                        : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1857, two volumes. (Bishop Meade has collected old
                        church records, records of old families, magistrates, vestrymen, etc. of considerable value to
                        the genealogist.)
               
                  National Genealogical Society Quarterlg.
                        
                            Washington
                        : The National Genealogical Society, Vol. I, April, 1912. (Since its beginning it
                        has published much original genealogical information of permanent value.)
               National Historical Society. The Journal of American Genealogy.
                        
                            Greenfield
                        , Indiana: The National Historical Society, Volume I, 1922. (Family histories, coats
                        of arms, biographies, and vital records for all America.)
               New 
                            England
                         Historical and Genealogical Society. New 
                                England
                             Historical and Genealogical Register.
                        
                            Boston
                        : s. G. Drake, Vol. I, 1847. (This magazine publishes genealogies, transcripts, and
                        probate, church and cemetery records for the New 
                            England
                         area.)
               
                  
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Archives. (Fourth Series is a publication of governor's papers.
                        The Eighth Series is entitled The Votes and Proceedings of the House of
                            Representatives of the Province of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , Dec. 4, 1882 to Sept. 26, 1776. The Ninth Series is entitled Executive Minutes from December 21, 1790, to May 21, 1838. Earlier minutes may be
                        found in Colonial Records, 16 volumes. Series two, three, and five are also
                        very valuable.)
               
                  Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages in 
                                England
                            .
                        
                            London
                        : W. Clowes and Sons for Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1839. (These
                        reports begin in 1839; they are valuable for tracing recent English ancestry.)
               Savage, James. Genealogical Dictionary of the First Settlers of New 
                                England
                            . (This shows three generations of those who came over before May, 1692.
                        Four volumes, 
                            Boston
                        : 1860–62.)
               Secretary of War. 
                     
                                United States
                             Pension Rolls, three volumes in 1835. (An indispensable work for the
                        period.)
               Sons of the American Revolution. Official Bulletin of the National Society of the
                            Sons of the American Revolution.
                        
                            Washington
                        : published by the Society. (These bulletins include historical records pertaining
                        to members of the Society, records, and a query section.)
               
               Stewart, Robert A. Index to Printed 
                                Virginia
                             Genealogies. (This is also very useful but of course pertains to a
                        particular state. It was published in 
                     Richmond,
                                Virginia
                  , 1930.)
               Stiles, Henry R. Handbook of Genealogy.
                        
                            Albany
                        : Joel Munsell's Sons, 1899. (This is a short introduction for the
                        beginner, written in a pious, juvenile vein, but usable when no other book is available.)
               Swem, E. G., Editor. 
                     
                                Virginia
                             Historical Index.
                        
                            Roanoke
                        : The Stone Printing and Manufacturing Company, Vol. I, 1934; Vol. 11, 1936. (This
                        laborious and indispensible work for 
                            Virginia
                         genealogy indexes the following volumes and periodicals: Calendar of
                            Vir-Large, vols. 1–13 (1619–1792); Lower Norfolk Co. 
                                Virginia
                             Antzginia State Papers, vols. 1–11 (1652–1869) ; Henig's Statutes at quaw, vols. 1–5
                        (1895–1906); Tyler's Quarterly Historical & Historical
                            Register, vols. 1–6 (1848–1853); William &
                            Mary College Genealogical Magazine, vols. 1–10 (July 1919-Apr. 1929); 
                     
                                Virginia
                             Quarterly Historical Magazine Series 1, vols. 1–27 (July
                        1892– Apr. 1919); William & Mary College Quarterly Historical
                            Magazine Series 2, vols. 1–10 (Jan. 1921-Oct. 1930).
               Thomson, T. R. A Catalogue of British Family Histories.
                        
                            London
                        : John Murray, 1928. (This book purports to be a complete list of British Family
                        Histories. "I have not attempted to include biographies, printed pedigree sheets,
                        reprints from genealogical magazines, peerage claims, or works produced in America even if they
                        deal wholly with British families", says the compiler in the Preface.)
               Tyler, Mrs. Lyon G., Editor. Tyler's Quarterly Historical and
                            Genealogical Magazine. Charles City, 
                            Virginia
                        ; Volume I, July, 1919. (The issues of this periodical are especially valuable for 
                            Virginia
                         history.)
               
                  
                            Virginia
                         Historical Society. The 
                                Virginia
                             Magazine of History and Biography.
                        
                            Richmond
                        : House of the Society. (This is another periodical devoted to the history and
                        biography of 
                            Virginia
                         families.)
               
                  William and Mary College Quarterly.
                        
                            Williamsburg
                        : published by the College, Volume I, 1892. (This quarterly includes sections on
                        family histories, notes and queries biographies, vital statistics, an index of persons, and
                        other records.
            
         
      
   
