
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 33, Issue 3, pages 261-381. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:33+issue:3+year:1937&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Southern Influence in the Formation of Indiana
            JOHN D. BARNHART
            
            James Bryce wisely observed that state constitutions furnish invaluable material and are a mine of
                    instruction for the history of democratic communities.1 If this be true, the
                    first constitution of a state should reveal some of the social and political ideals of its citizens
                    at the time of its adoption. A study of such a document, which includes the antecedents of the
                    members of the convention, the contests in framing the constitution, and the ideas of which it was
                    formed, aids one in understanding the part played by the settlers from the various sections of the
                    nation in the founding of the new commonwealth.
            The movement for statehood in Indiana was a natural outgrowth of the contests of the earlier period.
                    During his governorship of the territory, William Henry Harrison became identified with the
                    interests of the capital city of 
                        Vincennes
                    , with the group of officials that he appointed to the various county and territorial
                    offices, and with the settlers who believed that the prohibition of slavery north of the
                        Ohio River was excluding desirable immigrants, delaying the development of
                    the territory and interfering with the establishment of the type of society which many preferred.2
            
            The Harrison group came to be called the 
                        Virginia
                     Aristocrats.3 Although a number of important positions were 
                  
                     1 The American Commonwealth (
                                London
                            , 1891). I, 434.
                  
                     2 Dorothy B. Goebel, Wiliam Henry Harrison, Indiana
                                Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-), XIV (1926), 6–8; Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana, A
                                Redemption from Slavery (
                                Boston
                            , 1890), 29–16; Dunn, Indiana and Indianians, 6
                            vols. (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I. 28–08.
                  
                     3 Dunn, Indiana, 897.
               
                     held by Virginians,4 all of the members of
                    the group did not come from that state. Negro servants were held in Indiana by some of these
                    aristocrats, although slavery was forbidden by the Northwest Ordinance.5
                    Petitions requesting the modification of the ordinance were forwarded to Congress6 and a system of indentured servitude was permitted by the territorial legislature.7 Aristocratic manners, characteristic of the plantation South or of the old
                    country had been carried into this frontier region. General James Dill, a native of 
                        Ireland
                     whom Harrison appointed a prosecuting attorney, attended court in the costume of a
                    gentleman of the Revolutionary period, knee breeches, silver buckles, and cue "a mild
                    protest against the leveling tendencies of the age.8" When the
                    candidate of this group was defeated by Jonathan Jennings in 1809 in the election of a delegate to
                    Congress, Waller Taylor, a Harrisonite, tried to pick a quarrel with Jennings; and Thomas Randolph,
                    the defeated candidate, challenged a critic to fight a duel.9
            
            Certain developments occurred which lessened the influence and security of the Harrison group. 
                        Illinois
                     was separated from Indiana territory, disturbing existing relations and reducing the
                    number of Harrison's supporters.10 Vin-cennes was no longer centrally
                    located, and in 1813 the capital was moved to Corydon.11 Immigration increased
                    the importance 
                  
                     4 Among these may be mentioned Waller Taylor, Chancellor of the
                            territory, 180–814; Thomas Randolph, Attorney General, 180–811; and
                            Samuel Gwathmey, a member of the legislative council. Nina K. Reid, "Sketches of
                            Early Indiana Senators—Waller Taylor, 181–825." Indiana Magazine of History, IX (1913), 9–6: William W. Woolen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (Idnianapolis 1888),
                            39–9; Dunn, Indiana, 326; Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker
                            (eds.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 180–816, Indiana Historical
                                Collections, XX (1934), 181–0; Biographical Directory of
                                the American Congress, 177–927 (
                                Washington
                            , 1928), 1602.
                  
                     5 Dann Lynn, Luke Decker, and David Robb will serve as illustrations.
                            Sketches of Lynn, William H. English Collection (University of 
                                Chicago
                             Library), Indiana Biographical Sketches, L; sketches of Robb, ibid., R; William W. Woolen, et al. (eds.), "Executive
                            Journal of Indiana Territory, 180–816," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897-), III (1900), see index for these names; History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 and 
                                    Ohio Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 100, 490; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 301; Gil R.
                            Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 4–3; History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 8–6; see advertisement by Samuel Gwathmey in 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, April 80, 1814.
                  
                     6 Jacob P. Dunn (ed.), "Slavery Petitions and
                            Papers," Indiana Historical Society, Publications, II (1896).
                            44–29.
                  
                     7 "Laws of Indiana Territory, 1805," ch. XXVI,
                            Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            180–809, 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library, Collections (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1903-), XXI (1930), 8–68.
                  
                     8
                            History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 and 
                                    Ohio Counties
                                , Indiana, 14–9; O. H. Smith, Early Indiana
                                Trials and Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1868), 17–3; sketches of James Dill, English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, D; Dunn, Indiana and Indianians, I, 287;
                            "Exelutive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            117, 154, 167, 174, 180, 201, 205, 209. 217.
                  
                     9 Woolen, Biographical Sketches, 39–9;
                            Dunn, Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery, 39–01; Charles
                            Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, 3 vols. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), I, 54.
                  
                     10 Dunn, Indiana, 88–3.
                  
                     11 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1924), I, 242.
               
                     of the eastern and southern parts of the territory.12 The voters were permitted to choose the delegate to Congress and the members
                    of the territorial council as well as of the house of representatives.13
                    Jonathan Jennings was elected delegate to Congress and an opposition group led by him and closely
                    associated with the Territorial Legislature came into being.14 The indenture
                    law, by which the proslavery interests had circumvented the Northwest Ordinance, was repealed.15 The only feature of the Harrison regime that was not overthrown was the
                    governor's control over patronage, and Jennings made attacks on that in Congress.16
            
            The War of 1812 gave Harrison an honorable escape from the growing opposition. The extent to which
                    the old division disappeared with him is disputed. Jacob P. Dunn thought that the old issues
                    continued until the constitution was framed. Governor Thomas Posey, who succeeded Harrison, was also
                    a Virginian and a soldier.17 He had petitioned for the admission of slaves.
                    "It was only natural," wrote Dunn, "that the personal friends of General
                    Harrison became Posey's personal friends; and in equally natural sequence he fell heir to
                    Harrison's political estate as well as to his office."18 The
                    Jennings group was determined to wrest control from this aristocratic, proslavery circle which was
                    strongly centered in 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Knox County
                    . The election of delegates to the constitutional convention was a great victory for the
                    Jennings or popular party, which made possible an antislavery constitution.
            Professor Logan Esarey has disputed these points: 
                        In the selection of delegates to the convention no definite political parties nor political
                            issues appeared…. Even the old issues of slavery 
                        
                           12
                                    Ibid., I, 23–8; Waldo F. Mitchell,
                                    "Indiana's Growth, 181–820," Indiana Magazine of History, X (1914), 36–6; Niles' Weekly Register, IX (1816), 171, 186; Dunn, Indiana, 89–2; Ninth Census of the 
                                            United States
                                        , 1870, Statistics of Population (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1872), 2–6; Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers
                                        and Slavery…. in Johns Hopkins University Studies
                                        in Historical and Political Science, Extra Vol. XV (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 1896), 26–4.
                        
                           13 "Acts of Indiana Territory, 1811," ch.
                                    XVI, In Ewbank and Riker (eds.). The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                        180–816, 20–4; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 5–7.
                        
                           14 Dorothy Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," In
                                        Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (1932), 22–9;
                                    Logan Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings…
                                        Indiana Historical Collections, XII (1924), –, 2–8;
                                        Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1927, 1149.
                        
                           15 "Acts of Indiana Territory, 1810," ch.
                                    XXVIII, in Ewbank and Riker (eds.). The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                        180–816, 8–08.
                        
                           16 Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," loc. cit., 231.
                        
                           17 James Hall, "Memoir of Thomas Posey," in
                                    Jared Sparks (ed.). The Library of American Biography, Second
                                    Series, 16 vols. 
                                        Boston
                                    , (186–865), IX (1852), 85–03; Woolen, Biographical Sketches, 2–8.
                        
                           18 Dunn, Indiana, 41–8.
                     
                             and aristocracy belonged to the era of territorial
                            strife. The slavery question seems to have played a very minor part in the selection of
                            delegates and in the work of the convention….19
                  
                    
            
            Undoubtedly Professor Esarey has made a much needed correction in calling attention to the
                    overemphasis on the slavery question, but it is possible that he has gone too far in the opposite
                    direction. Animosities and prejudices die slowly, voters are not especially rational, and
                    politicians hesitate to surrender a useful issue. Jennings was a skilful politician,20 slavery was discussed,21 and something like the old division is to
                    be seen in a careful analysis of the work of the convention.22 Something of the
                    aristocratic social order might be maintained with indentured servitude, and convictions must be
                    honored even in defeat.
            Only statehood could give the popular party control over patronage and the executive. A state
                    constitution, with a rigid prohibition of negro indenture as well as slavery, would guard the people
                    against the possible future introduction of negroes, and check permanently the development of an
                    aristocratic society that was patterned on that of the plantation South. Of great importance, also,
                    was the desire for complete local self-government and participation in national affairs. The old
                    Harrison group was opposed to this development, for it would end the regime that gave them honors
                    and positions.
            After the territorial assembly petitioned for statehood and an adequate population was indicated by a
                    census, Congress passed an enabling act authorizing a constitutional convention.23 The passage of the act came so shortly before the date set for the election of delegates,
                    that a campaign, such as had occurred before the convention of 1802 in 
                        Ohio
                    ,24 was impossible. A few letters and editorials appeared dealing
                    chiefly with Jennings and the slavery question.25 Timothy Flint, who was in
                    Indiana at the time, wrote: 
                  
                     19 Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jonathan
                                Jennings…, –2; id., History of Indiana, I. 24–8,
                            24–9.
                  
                     20 "Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," Joe. cit.,
                            239.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, February 8, March 2, 80, 1816; Timothy Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten Years (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 57: Dunn, Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery, 219
                            ff., and Dunn, Indiana and Indianians, I, 29–1; Kettlebborough
                                Constitution Making in Indiana, I, xv-xvii.
                  
                     22 Below, pp. 26–76.
                  
                     23 Francis N. Thorpe (comp.), Federal and State
                                Constitutions… and Other Organic Laws…. 7 vols. (
                                Washington
                            , 1909), II, 103–056; Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            I. 24–7.
                  
                     24 John D. Barnhart. "The Southern Influence in the Formation
                            of 
                                Ohio
                            ," Journal of Southern History (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1985-), III (1937), 2–2.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, January 27, February 3, March 2, 80, April 20, May 8, 11. and
                            June 1, 1816.
               
                    
                    
                        The question in all its magnitude, whether it should be a slave-holding state or not, was
                            just now agitating. I was often compelled to hear the question debated by those in opposite
                            interestes with no small degree of asperity.26
                  
                    
            
            The most valid argument against statehood was the expense it would involve, although the objection to
                    the haste with which delegates must be chosen was not entirely pointless. The election resulted in a
                    victory for the popular or Jennings party, to which almost two-thirds of the delegates appear to
                    have belonged.
            A survey of the members of this group is instructive.27 Although its opponents
                    were called Virginians, the Old Dominion was the birthplace of the largest group of delegates who
                    were members of the popular party. Four of them came from the Piedmont28 and one
                    from the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    .29 They may have been a part of the exodus of farmers who emigrated
                    as the plantation system spread to the westward.30
                    
                  
                     26 Flint, Recollections, 57.
                  
                     27 The political alignment of the delegates was estimated on the basis
                            of the recorded roll calls of the convention. Those who voted similarly were assumed to
                            belong to the same group or party. The likelihood of error was greatest in classfying the
                            delegates who were moderate or independent. The roll calls are found in "Journal of
                            the Convention of the Convention of the Indiana Territory," in State Bar
                            Association of Indiana, Report of the Sixteenth Annual Meeting (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 13–31. Very brief biographical notes about members of the
                            convention are found in "Members of the Indiana Constitutional Convention of
                            1816," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (1930),
                            14–1.
                  
                     28 James Noble, William Cotton, Dennis Pennington, and Enoch McCarty.
                            Noble came from the vicinity of 
                        Fredericksburg, Virginia
                     , according to Woolen, Biographical Sketches, 17–4,
                            but the Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                            177–927, P, 1860, gives 
                                Clark County
                             just west of the Blue Ridge Mountains. He lived in 
                                Kentucky
                             before coming to Indiana. Here he held various offices and was elected to the 
                                United States
                             Senate. See Smith, Early Indiana Trials, 88, and
                            "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            167, 172, 184, 230, 238, 242. William Cotton was born In 
                        London County, Virginia
                     , from whence he moved to 
                                Kentucky
                             and later to Indiana: Perry K. Cotton to W. H. English, January 27, 1886,
                            English Collection, Biographical Sketches, C; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 124, 168, 205, 220. Pennington, who was
                            born in 
                        Mecklenburg County, Virginia
                     , came to 
                                Kentucky
                             and later to Indiana, where he became an active Methodist, an opponent of
                            slavery, and an Influential member of the territorial legislature; see letter written by
                            Pennington to Colonel John Paul, November 8, 1815, In Indiana Magazine of
                                History, III (1907), 1–2; a newspaper clipping, from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March, 1, 1825, an unidentified newspaper obituary (clipping),
                            and a sketch in English Collection, Biographical Sketch-as, P; Allen Wiley,
                            "Methodism in Southeastern Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXIII (1927), –4, 13–16, 23–32,
                            39–66, see 195; John W. Ray, "A Recollection of Dennis
                            Pennington," ibid., III, 2–8; Ruth Price,
                            "Indiana Methodism, 181–832," ibid., XI
                            (1915), 28–7, see 232; F. C. Holliday, Indiana Methodism (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1878), 21. McCarty was a native of 
                        Culpepper
                                    County, Virginia; Brookville
                      Indiana Democrat,
                            December 18, 1857 (clipping), in English Collection, Biographical Sketches, M;
                            "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            142, 145, 169, 205; August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 638.
                  
                     29 Samuel Smock was born in 
                        Berkeley
                                    County, Virginia
                     . He
                            lived in 
                                Kentucky
                             for several years and was married while there; sketch of Smock in English
                            Collection, Biographical Sketches, S; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 157, 166, 168, 171, 202, 205, 220; Jacob
                            Vawter, "Early History of 
                                Madison
                            ," in Indiana, Magazine of History, XII (1916),
                            22–31.
                  
                     30 John D. Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the
                            Old Northwest," In 
                        Miasissippi Valley Historical
                                Review (Cedar Rapids, 1915-), XXII (1936), 4–2, see 5–7, and
                            references cited.
               
                     The exact nativity of two has not been determined.31 Four of the seven lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     for a time before moving to Indiana and all but one received appointments from Governor
                    Harrison.
            Four other members of the popular party were born in 
                        Maryland
                    , and they seem to have been connected with the population movements in the
                    "Old West." One was born in 
                        Hagerstown
                    , all but one later lived in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and the other spent much of his life on the frontier. Not one of these was appointed
                    to office by Harrison.32
            
            Only two of 
                        Kentucky
                    's native sons were members of the popular group. One was a 
                        Quaker
                    , an active supporter of Jennings, and an opponent of slavery.33 He
                    was not given an office by Harrison, but the other Kentuckian, who was John DePauw, a son of Charles
                    DePauw, the friend and associate of 
                        Lafayette
                    , was appointed a judge and an official in the militia.34 The
                    influence of 
                        Kentucky
                     was heightened because nine other members of the controlling party had resided there
                    before coming to Indiana.35
            
            
               
                  31 These were Davis Floyd and John Bennefield. Floyd was said to be a
                        member of a famous 
                            Virginia
                         family. He became a friend of Harrison and was appointed to a number of official
                        positions, but became involved in the Burr conspiracy. His commissions were revoked and no
                        further appointments were given to him by Harrison. He ceased to be a member of the Harrison
                        group, became a member of the popular party and was made clerk to the lower house of the
                        Territorial Assembly. Sketch of Floyd, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, F; Isaac J.
                        Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXV (1929). 25–0; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                        Territory," loc. cit., 101, 112, 121, 122, 184, 137, 147, 186, 187,
                        197; Lerington, Indiana, Western Eagle, April 1, 1814. Colonel Bennefield was
                        a Virginian, but he was the only successful candidate in 
                            Knox County
                         who was not a member of the Harrison group and who held antislavery views: H. V.
                        Helms to John C. Briggs, and John C. Brlggs to W. H. English in English Collection, Biographical
                        Sketches, B; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 295.
               
                  32 They were the Reverend Hugh Cull, Thomas Carr, William H. Eads, and
                        Charles Polk. Cull was born in Havre de Grace of Catholic parents with whom he went to 
                            Pennsylvania
                         at an early age. As a young man he went west to 
                            Kentucky
                         where he was married. He served as a local preacher in the Methodist Church after
                        he moved to Indiana. Sketches of Cull, English Collection. Biographical Sketches, C; Wiley,
                        "Methodism in Southeastern Indiana," In Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXIII, 81, 87, 88. Thomas Carr lived in 
                            Maryland
                         until he grew to manhood and was married. He moved to 
                     Fayette County, Pennsylvania
                  , and from there to Indiana Territory. Sketches of Carr,
                        English Collection, Biographical Sketches, C. William H. Eads was born in 
                            Hagerstown
                         from which he moved to 
                            Kentucky
                         and then on to Indiana. He is said to have been an Episcopalian and a Federalist.
                        E. J. Dillon to W. English, December 13, 1886, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, E;
                        "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit., 288.
                        Charles Polk was born in 
                            Maryland
                        , married into a 
                            Virginia
                         family, and during the Revolution moved to the northern panhandle of 
                            Virginia
                        , He later moved to 
                            Kentucky
                        , where the Indians captured his family. Many years after he was reunited with his
                        wife and children, he moved to Indiana. He was a Baptist preacher and held antislavery views. He
                        was the father of William Polk who was also a member of the convention, but an adherent of the
                        opposition. Sketch of Polk, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, P; Logan Esarey,
                        "Indian Captives in Early Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, IX, 9–12: James Polke, "Some Memoirs of the
                        Polke… and Mathes Families," ibid., X, 8–9;
                        William Bruce, "Memoirs of the Bruce Family." ibid., XXIII,
                        65.
               
                  33 This was Joseph Holman; sketch of Joseph Holman, English Collection,
                        Biographical Sketches. G (misflled); Dunn, Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery,
                        89–6.
               
                  34 Sketch of John De Pauw, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, P
                        (misfiled): "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc.
                        cit., 195. 206: History of the Ohio Falls Cities and
                            Their Counties, 2 vols. (
                     Cleveland,
                                Ohio
                  , 1882), II, 280.
               
                  35 These were Pennlngton, Cull. Eads, William Graham, Brownlee, Noble,
                        Smock, Cotton, and Charles Polk. Biographical data for each of these is given on pp.
                        – and notes 2–2 of this paper.
            
            
            Each of the Carolinas contributed a native son to the Jennings party. Robert Hanna, who seems to have
                    been something of a "character," came to Indiana from 
                        South Carolina
                     about 1800. He was fond of drilling the local militia although the cornstalks which
                    many carried in the place of guns contrasted strangely with his own elaborate uniform. He is
                    reported as having had an "innate prejudice" against slavery and slaveholders but
                    as being careful about speaking of it in the early days when it was not popular and when he was a
                    friend and an appointee of Governor Harrison. No doubt this prejudice affected his alignment in the
                    convention with the popular party, and his fondness for office would tend to bring him over to the
                        majority.36 William Lowe, a native of 
                        North Carolina
                    , was not a 
                        Quaker
                    , but was considered to be very favorable to the adherents of that faith.37
            
            Jonathan Jennings, who was the leader of the popular group and the president of the convention, and
                    six other delegates who aided him in the convention came from the Middle States. Four of the five
                    Pennsylvanians seem to have been connected with the "Old West" or the
                    Trans-Appalachian movement.38 One delegate came from 
                        Delaware
                    .39 After coming to Indiana, Jennings, who was probably a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , saw the opportunity of championing the "anti-slavery, capital-moving, and
                    anti-Harrison forces" at a time when they were already in the ascendancy.40 This resulted in his election as delegate to Congress, where he endeavored to strip
                    Harrison of some of his appointive powers and to discredit him in various ways, bringing the
                    enabling act safely through Congress as the climax of his efforts. Two other members of the popular
                    party came from the North. They were New Englanders, being natives of 
                        Connecticut
                    , one of 
                  
                     36
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 22, 1858; John H. B. Nowland, Early
                                Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 19–5; sketch of Robert Hanna, English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, H: Hubert M. Skinner, "
                                Brookville
                            's Rounded Century, June, 1908," in Indiana
                                Magazine of History, VI (1910), 8–6; "Executive Journal of
                            Indiana Territory," loc. cit., 168, 191.
                  
                     37 Sketch of William Lowe, English Collection, Biographical Sketches,
                            L.
                  
                     38 The four were Jeremiah Cox, John K. Graham, Samuel Milroy, and
                            James Brown-lee. The fifth, Robert McIntire, may have been, for he was born in
                                    
                        Chester Country, Pennsylvania
                     ; sketch of McIntire, English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, M. For Cox, see sketch in English Collection, Biographical Sketches,
                            C; "Memoir of David Hoover," in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, II (1906), 1–7. See sketch of Graham in English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, G, and History of the Ohio Falls
                                Cities and Their Counties, II, 247. A sketch of Milroy is to be found in the
                            English Collection, Biographical Sketches, M. See a sketch of Brownlee by his son, John
                            Brownlee, and an undated newspaper clipping in the English Collection, Biographical
                            Sketches, B.
                  
                     39 This was Solomon Manwaring; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 167, 205, 233; History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 and 
                                    Ohio Counties
                                , Indiana, 533. 82–3; Amps W. Butler, "Notes
                            Concerning 
                                Brookville
                            , Ind., A Century Ago," in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XIII (1917), 14–0.
                  
                     40 Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII, 239.
               
                     them a Baptist preacher. Neither had lived in the South and
                    neither received an office from Governor Harrison.41
            
            From 
                        Ireland
                     came two other delegates of the Jennings' faction. Both had lived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , one moving west by way of 
                        Tennessee
                    , the other through 
                        Kentucky
                    . One was a prominent 
                        Quaker
                    .42
            
            Altogether fifteen of the popular party were natives of the South, seven were born in the Middle
                    States, two were New Englanders, and two were Irishmen. In addition to the fifteen natives, four
                    others had resided in the South, and a number had married southern women. Only seven of the group
                    were not natives or former residents of the South, but the evidence indicates that the southerners
                    were from the Upland not the Lowland South. Not more than one-third of the popular party had been
                    appointed to office by Harrison.
            Natives of the Old Dominion were also more numerous than the sons of any other state in the party of
                    the 
                        Virginia
                     Aristocrats, numbering five out of a total of sixteen. Two were born in 
                        Piedmont counties
                    
               43 and a third was born in the northern panhandle above Wheeling.44 Four of the five lived for a time in 
                        Kentucky
                    
               45 and all were appointed to office save one who was a Baptist
                    minister. Patrick Shields, who was the sole native of the 
                        Virginia
                     coastal plain, was born upon a 
                  
                     41 These were Ezra Ferris and Nathaniel Hunt. Ferris was born in
                            Stanwich, 
                                Connecticut
                            . He came to 
                                Cincinnati
                             as a child, but returned to 
                                New England
                             for his education. He became a Baptist preacher, a school teacher, a physician,
                            and a druggist. Ezra Ferris, "The Early Settlement of the 
                                Miami County
                            ," Indiana Historical Society Publications, I (1897),
                            24–64; sketches of Ferris. English Collection, Biographical Sketches, F;
                            "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            241. Hunt was born in 
                        Litchfield County, Connecticut
                     . He moved to
                                    
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , and later to 
                                Madison
                            . Indiana. Simon Hunt to William H. English, November 24, 1886, English
                            Collection, Biographical Sketches, H.
                  
                     42 These were Patrick Beard and William Graham. Beard was brought to 
                                Pennsylvania
                             as an infant. With his parents he moved to 
                                North Carolina
                            , and later, when a young man, he moved to 
                                Tennessee
                            , before coming to Indiana. Sketch of Beard, English Collection, Biographical
                            Sketches, B. Graham also came to 
                                Pennsylvania
                             as a child. When a young man he moved to 
                                Kentucky
                            , and ten years later he came to Indiana. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 1, 1825, a newspaper clipping in English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, G. Beard was a leading member of the 
                                Quaker
                             organization.
                  
                     43 These were the Reverend Alexander Devin and James Smith. Devin was
                            born in 
                        Pittsylvania County, Virginia
                     . He moved to 
                                Kentucky
                             when thirty years of age and to Indiana ten years later. He was a Baptist
                            minister. Sketch of Devin in the English Collection, Biographical Sketches, D. Smth. who was
                            born in 
                        Orange County, Virginia
                     , moved to 
                                Kentucky
                            , and then to Indiana, where he became a justice of the peace in 
                                Knox County
                            , and a captain in the militia. Sketch of Smith in the English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, S; "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit., 178, 17–0.
                  
                     44 This was William Polk, a son of Charles Polk, who was also a member
                            of the convention. He spent much of his early life in 
                                Kentucky
                             before coming to Indiana. He was one of the Indian captives referred to in supra, note 32. In addition to the references cited there, seen an
                            obituary said to have been copied from the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Times, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, P; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 293; and "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 150, 238.
                  
                     45 These were Devin, Smith, William Polk, and Daniel C. Lane. Lane was
                            a native of 
                                Virginia
                            . After coming to Indiana, he was appointed a judge, and later served as state
                            treasurer and as a representative in the legislature. Sketch of Lane, English Collection,
                            Biographical Sketches, L2 "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 221.
               
                     plantation. He was educated at Hampden-Sydney and at William
                    and Mary where he became a friend of William Henry Harrison, who appointed him, at a later time, a
                    judge in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana Territory.46 In the convention he was more of a moderate
                    than a partisan.
            Three members of this aristocratic or opposition party were natives of 
                        Kentucky
                    .47 One of these, Doctor David H. Maxwell, was descended from a 
                        Virginia
                     family that had moved along the Shenandoah Valley on the way from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                  Albemarle County, Virginia
               . Although he and his wife were slave-owners by
                    inheritance, they crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     "to get clear of slavery."48 Maxwell's
                    practise of medicine may have kept him from being interested in office, but the other Kentuckians,
                    one of whom was a slave-owner, were appointees of Harrison. Daniel Grass, who attended too few
                    sessions of the convention to be classified with either49 group, was also a
                    native of 
                        Kentucky
                    . John Boone, the sole Marylander in the opposition, had been for several years a
                    resident of 
                        Kentucky
                    .50
            
            Three important members of the opposition came from the Middle States. Benjamin Parke, a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     as a young man, studied law, and was married, before emigrating to 
                        Vincennes
                     where he became an intimate friend and partisan of Harrison. He was appointed attorney
                    general for the territory, served in the territorial legislature, became a delegate to Congress,
                    and, for eight years, was a territorial judge. After Indiana became a state, he was appointed a
                    federal district judge.51 John 
                  
                     46 Above, note 8.
                  
                     47 These were Doctor David H. Maxwell, Dan Lynn, and James Lemon. Lynn
                            brought his slaves with him when he moved from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana. He is said to have liberated them when Indiana entered the Union.
                            See above, note 6, for references on Lynn. Information about James Lemon is very meager,
                            consisting largely of the statement that he was said to have been born in 
                                Kentucky
                            , and a record of the offices he held in Indiana. Sketch of Lemon, English
                            Collection, Biographical Sketches, L; and "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 182, 16, 176, 204. The aristocratic party,
                            being the minority element in the Constitutional Convention, will be referred to as the
                            opposition.
                  
                     48 Sketch of Maxwell by a son, James D. Maxwell; another sketch signed
                            W. H. J.; and a clipping from the 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, News Letter, June 24, 1864, In the Albert Gallatin
                            Porter Collection, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. These items were brought to my attention by Miss Esther McNitt of the
                            Indiana State Library. See also sketch of Maxwell in English Collection Biographical
                            Sketches, M; and Louise Maxwell, "Sketch of Dr. David H. Maxwell," in Indiana Maganize of History, VII (1912), 10–8.
                  
                     49 Sketch of Daniel Grass, English Collection, Biographical Sketches,
                            G: "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory." loc. cit.,
                            148, 188, 214, 218.
                  
                     50 Sketches of John Boone. English Collection, Biographical Sketches,
                            B; "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            150.
                  
                     51 George S. Cottman, "Benjamin Parke," in Dictionary of American Biography, 20 vols. (
                                New York
                            , 192–936), XIV (1934). 20–0; Woolen, Biographical Sketches, 37–3, 38–0; "Minutes of the
                            Indiana Historical Society." in Indiana Historial Society Publications, I, –6, passim; "Executive Journal
                            of Indiana Territory," loc. cit., 109. 146, 196; undated obituary
                            notice in English Collection, Biographical Sketches, P.
               
                     Johnson was a Pensylvanian, a proslavery leader, and an owner
                    of at least one negro servant. He, too, served as attorney general, being one of the ablest lawyers
                    in the territory and one of the most consistent leaders in the Harrison party.52
                    A third of the Harrison men from the Middle States was born in 
                  Washington County, Pennsylvania
               . He moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    , studied law, medicine, and theology, before moving to Indiana, where he was appointed
                    a prosecuting attorney and a judge.53
            
            Three strong men were found among the four members of the opposition who were foreign by birth. Jean
                    L. Badollet, friend of Albert Gallatin and registrar of the land office at 
                        Vincennes
                    , was a native of 
                        Switzerland
                    . An idealist, he entertained antislavery views which occasioned disagreement with
                    Governor Harrison. There was no open break and both Badollet and his son accepted office from the
                        governor.54 The second of these foreign born adherents of the opposition was
                    General James Dill, already noticed as a "gentleman of the last century." Born in 
                        Dublin
                    , brought to America when an infant, he lived in 
                  Pennsylvania, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    , before coming to Indiana. He saw service with Anthony Wayne and studied law in the
                    office of General Arthur St. Clair, whose daughter he married. He joined the Harrison group and was
                    rewarded with several offices.55 The third of this group was David Robb, one of
                    Harrison's friends who owned slaves. He, too, was born in 
                        Ireland
                     and was brought to America in childhood. Like Dill, he lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     and became a friend and appointee of Harrison after coming to Indiana.56 Frederick Rapp, who came from 
                        Germany
                    , was the adopted son of the founder of Harmonie. Elected from 
                        Knox County
                    , the stronghold of the Harrison party, he voted with the opposition in the
                        convention.57
            
            Nine of the sixteen members of the opposition were natives of the South. Most of these were from the
                    Upland 
                  
                     52 Will of John Johnson, a commission signed by William Henry
                            Harrison, and a sketch of Johnson, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, I-J; Dunn, Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery, 239, 322, 82–8, et passim; Dunn, Indiana and Indianians, I, 298;
                            "Executive Joruanl of Indiana Territory," loc. cit.,
                            146, 169, 192.
                  
                     53 This was James Scott. See a clipping from the 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana. Record, August 7, 1886, and a sketch of Scott in
                            the English Collection, Biographical Sketches, S; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                            Territory," loc. cit., 168, 196, 197.
                  
                     54 "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory," loc. cit., 129, 132, 192: Henry Adams, The Life of Albert
                                Gallatin (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1880), 40–6; sketches of Badollet, English Collection, Biographical
                            Sketches, B: Henry S. Cauthorn, A History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                 (
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Indiana, 1902), 18–6; Goebel, Harrison,
                            8–2; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, II, 129, 132, 192, 293.
                  
                     55 Above, 2 and note 8.
                  
                     56 Above, note 6.
                  
                     57 Sketch of Frederick Rapp. English Collection, Biographical
                            Sketches, R; George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 11, 2–6.
               
                     South, but at least one came from the Lowland. Three were
                    natives of the North, while four were of foreign birth. Altogether thirteen of the sixteen had lived
                    in the South.
            A comparison of the two groups is interesting. The popular party contained two New Englanders who
                    were members of the convention. These and the seven natives of the Middle States made a total of
                    nine or thirty-five per cent of the popular party born in the North. In contrast only three of the
                    opposition were born in the North and they constituted but nineteen per cent of their group. More
                    than half of both groups were southern by nativity, fifty-eight per cent of the popular party and
                    fifty-six of the opposition. Only one of the delegates is known to have come from the Lowland South,
                    although the opposition seems to have desired to establish in Indiana a type of life somewhat
                    approximating that of the plantation area. In the popular party were certain individuals who were
                    much opposed to this. They included two Quakers, two Baptist preachers, one Methodist preacher, one
                    delegate said to have been friendly to the Quakers, and the two New Englanders. In the opposition,
                    however, were four men who owned negroes either as slaves or servants. The distribution of the
                    appointments made by Harrison serves to connect the convention with the differences of the
                    territorial period. One-third of the popular party, including those who had left the circle of
                    Harrison's friends, had received appointments, while three-fourths of the opposition party
                    of the convention had been favored under Harrison.
            Not only was the popular group and the opposition more than half composed of natives of the South,
                    but the total number of native southerners was twenty-five of the forty-three members of the
                    convention, or fifty-eight per cent. Adding to this number the members who had resided in the South
                    but had not been born there, the total of those who had come in contact with life in that section
                    before coming to Indiana was thirty-two or seventy-four per cent of the convention.
            The convention began its work by choosing as its president Jonathan Jennings and by authorizing him
                    to appoint a number of committees.58 He did not act in a partisan manner, for he
                    chose from the opposition as many committee chairmen as from his own group. The marked ability of
                    several members of the opposition made this a very reasonable 
                  
                     58 "Journal of the Convention of the Indiana
                            Territory," in State Bar Association of Indiana Report of the
                                Sixteenth Annual Meeting, 14–4.
               
                     procedure. However, most of the committees were in the hands of
                    the majority group, but this was to be expected for the majority was almost twice as numerous as the
                    opposition.
            The votes of the members of the convention do not reveal a strict partisan alignment, but they do
                    indicate that there were two groups whose views were not alike.59 The absence of
                    a strict alignment is proved by two facts: the members voted independently and sometimes
                    inconsistently, even on important matters; and more than half of the recorded roll calls were not
                    party votes, but were generally concerned with minor affairs about which there was general agreement
                    or a lack of party understanding.
            On the other hand, certain votes reveal differences between the two parties. The first difference
                    concerned the size of a quorum, the Jennings group favoring a majority of those elected, while the
                    opposition preferred two-thirds.60 The latter would have given the opposition a
                    powerful parliamentary weapon. Even in the face of the victory of the statehood movement, six of the
                    opposition voted against establishing a state government.61 The group in control
                    inserted a prohibition of slavery and involuntary servitude which declared that the constitution
                    could never be changed to introduce either into the state. The opposition did not oppose the
                    antislavery clause, but did oppose the accompanying declaration, and, when defeated in an effort to
                    eliminate it, proposed striking out a statement that a future convention could revise the
                    constitution. When this, too, was defeated, Johnson, one of the leading members of the minority,
                    proposed to strike out the prohibition of involuntary servitude, but this was negatived without a
                    record roll call.62 It is unfortunate that it cannot be learned how the members
                    voted on this matter, for it was the only vote that was directly concerned with slavery. In the
                    absence of such information, it is only possible to point out that the opposition did not take a
                    stand in favor of slavery although some of its members had favored it in the past. It seems that
                    they wished to preserve as much freedom of action in regard to the future as possible. Several votes
                    indicate 
                  
                     59 The votes are scattered through ibid.,
                            14–31.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 147.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 14–0.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 18–7.
               
                     the hostility of the minority to the old legislative group,63 and this hostility may have resulted in strengthening the executive
                    department. Hostility to the majority was shown by the refusal to repeal, at the request of a 
                        Quaker
                     delegate, the exemption from militia service which assessed fines upon those exempted.
                    The Quakers formed an important element in the dominant group. A similar explanation may account for
                    the opposition to increasing the representation in the Legislature of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Washington counties
                    , two of the counties that had sent delegates favoring the majority.64
            
            The constitution, which was the result of these contests, was very similar to the constitutions of
                    other Ohio Valley states.65 Although this has been
                    recognized, a more detailed inquiry is needed.66
            
            The bill of rights (article one) shows marked resemblance to the constitution of 
                        Ohio
                    , especially where it followed rather closely to the constitutions of 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . About one-third of this article is more like these constitutions than that of 
                        Ohio
                    , and this similarity is strengthened by the omission of some of the more original
                    sections of the 
                        Ohio
                     bill of rights.67 Article two, requiring a separation of powers,
                    was almost exactly a reproduction of a part of the constitution of 
                        Kentucky
                    ,68 which was, word for word, a portion of Jefferson's
                    draft of a constitution for 
                        Virginia
                    . The provisions for the Legislature (article three) resembled article one of the
                    constitution of 
                        Ohio
                    , while the latter was largely modeled upon the constitution of 
                        Tennessee
                    .69 Both Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     rejected the property qualifications for legislators which was a part of the 
                        Tennessee
                     document. Indiana 
                  
                     63 A limitation upon the power of the legislature to regulate the
                            franchise was supported by a larger portion of the opposition than of the majority (ibid., 16–6). Proposals to give the power to chose the
                            secretary of state to the legislature rather than the governor and to remove a restriction
                            on the power of the legislature over the militia were opposed by the opposition, while an
                            effort to reduce the daily stipend for legislators was supported and a salary limitation
                            applying to executive officials was opposed (ibid., 18–3, 221, 223).
                                A larger portion of the minority than of the majority voted to defeat a proposed
                            elimination of a tax payment requirement for office holders, a proposal to reduce the term
                            of a state senator from three to two years, and the term of a justice of the peace from five
                            to three years (ibid., 18–9, 19–00).
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 193, 22–6.
                  
                     65 These constitutions may be found in Thorpe (comp.), Federal and State Constitutions. The Indiana constitution is found in II,
                            105–3, the 
                                Ohio
                             in V. 290–3, the 
                                Kentucky
                             constitutions of 1792 and 1799 in III, 126–2, the 
                                Tennessee
                             in VI, 341–6, and the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             in V, 809–103.
                  
                     66 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 24–0.
                  
                     67 These are sections 2–7 of article VII.
                  
                     68 Article I, sections 1 and 2 of the constitutions of 1792 and 1799;
                            Arthur N. Hoicombe, State Government in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 56–0 for Jefferson's draft of a constitution for 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  
                     69 The smilarity of the constitution of 
                                Ohio
                             of 1802 to other constitutions has been discussed and more adequate references
                            given in Barnhart, "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Journal of Southern History, III,
                            2–2.
               
                     did not model its executive department (article four) after
                    that of 
                        Ohio
                    , where the difficulties between the legislature and the governor in the territorial
                    period caused the convention to establish an executive with little power. The executive department
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was very similar to that of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , was follewed by the Indiana convention, and the governor was given power of
                    appointment, of remitting fines and forfeitures, and of vetoing bills. A popularly elected
                    lieutenant governor was to succeed the governor in case of the death of the latter or his removal
                    from office. The judiciary article (article five) was more original than any of the preceeding
                    articles, but it established substantially the same system as existed in 
                        Ohio
                    . The supreme court was to meet at the capital and not in each county as the New
                    Englanders had persuaded the 
                        Ohio
                     convention to require of the supreme justices of that state.70 The
                    governor, rather than the Legislature as in 
                        Ohio
                    , appointed the members of the supreme court. The election of lesser judges and clerks
                    was more democratic than the methods in use in 
                        Ohio
                    . Suffrage (article six) was extended to white males, while 
                        Ohio
                     had limited it to white males charged with, or paying, a tax. The difference was
                    probably very slight, but it was in the direction of greater democracy. The remainder of the article
                    was somewhat like article four of the constitution of 
                        Ohio
                    . Provisions for the militia, generally taken from the constitutions of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , were contained in article seven. They were longer and more democratic as a general
                    rule. The article on amendments (article eight) prohibited any change which would permit slavery, as
                    did the constitution of 
                        Ohio
                    . Article eleven contained a prohibition of slavery and of any further contracts for
                    indentured servitude, the latter being milder than a similar provision of the constitution of 
                        Ohio
                    . Other sections of this article came from the constitutions of 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                    , while several of those from 
                        Ohio
                     had been modeled after similar parts of the constitution of 
                        Tennessee
                    . The antislavery provision was the chief difference that distinguished the Indiana
                    constitution from those adopted to the south of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Probably the most important parts of the constitution of Indiana were those for which there was
                    little or no precedent in earlier state constitutions. The convention contained men 
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 3–0; Julia P. Cutler, Life and Times of
                                Ephraim Cutler, prepared from his Journal and Correspondence (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1890), 7–3.
               
                     for whom new paths held no terrors. It is significant that real
                    educational progress was made by this convention which was controlled by members of southern origin.
                    The article devoted to education (article nine) noted the importance of knowledge and learning to
                    free government, provided for the use of lands granted for educational purposes, and required the
                    general assembly to establish a "system of education, ascending in a regular gradation,
                    from township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis, and equally open to
                    all." Money paid for exemption from military service should be used to establish county
                    seminaries, a penal code should be founded upon principles of reformation, one or more farms should
                    be provided as an asylum for the aged and unfortunate, and ten per cent of the proceeds of lot sales
                    in each new county seat should be used to establish libraries. A small part of the phraseology came
                    from the constitution of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , but if family tradition may be trusted, the principal person involved in framing this
                    article was a descendant of a 
                        Virginia
                     family who was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    . A dislike of banks, foreshadowing the Jacksonian movement was revealed in the tenth
                    article, which prohibited private banks with note issuing powers.
            It may be noted, by way of conclusion and summary, that the Indiana constitution was an outgrowth of
                    the territorial period, because the desire for greater self-government was a natural consequence of
                    larger numbers and added wealth, and because statehood was necessary to give the popular party a
                    complete victory over the older 
                        Virginia
                     aristocrats. The election, following a very brief campaign, was a victory for the
                    popular party, which was representative of the immigrants from the Upland South, including the
                    Quakers, and others from the Middle States and 
                        New England
                    . It opposed the desire of the older Harrison party to establish in Indiana social and
                    political conditions based upon the plantation South. The opposition party was composed of men from
                    the Upland South and the Middle States, but men who seem to have acquired a belief in ideals that
                    resembled in some measure those of the more aristocratic South. The contest was therefore largely
                    between two groups of southerners, one holding to the democratic ideas of the Upland South, the
                    other to parts of the philosophy of the Lowland South. The constitution, which the convention
                    adopted, was modeled very largely upon  the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     constitutions. To a lesser extent, it resembled the constitutions of 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , because of direct borrowing and because the 
                        Ohio
                     constitution was much like that of 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the constitutions of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     were quite similar to that of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The antislavery provisions distinguish it from those adopted south of the
                        Ohio River, while its democratic features represent the more complete
                    operation of the frontier influence. Its similarity to the above mentioned constitutions, and its
                    antislavery and democratic features indicate that it embodied the ideas of an expanding Upland
                    South. The advanced educational stand taken by the convention proves that the southern influence was
                    not entirely hostile to educational progress.
         
         
         
            Lincoln and Indiana Republicans, 186–862
            WINFRED A. HARBISON
            
            Abraham Lincoln spent approximately one-fourth of his life in Indiana. He entered the southern part
                    of the State in 1816 as a boy of seven. He departed in 1830 as a young man of twenty-one. During
                    those formative years of his life, the frontier state underwent such rapid settlement that the
                    population increased more than four-fold. Thousands of these hardy pioneers were to live to cast
                    their votes for or against Lincoln as a candidate for the presidency, and tens of thousands of their
                    sons were to respond to his calls for troops to defend the Union. Few of them, however, were to know
                    anything of the ex-Hoosier until he attained political prominence during the later fifties as a
                    leader of the Republicans in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            In the Old Northwest, Lincoln represented the moderate wing of the new Republican Party, composed of
                    former Whigs and Democrats of mild antislavery views and with a distinctly western attitude on the
                    economic issues of the day. Since the great majority of Indiana Republicans were relatively
                    conservative, they adhered substantially to the same political principles as the former Hoosier.
                    Consequently they accepted him unanimously and enthusiastically as their candidate for the
                    presidency in 1860, and during the campaign they were joined by a sufficient number of old-line
                    Whigs, former "Know-Nothings" and additional Democrats to carry the State and
                    contribute materially to his election.1
            
            It was natural, therefore, for these men to take an unusual interest in the course pursued by the new
                    President in the national crisis that confronted him. On the whole they were inclined to be
                    sympathetic and to support the general program of his Administration. But they observed events from
                    a more provincial viewpoint than he and often opposed certain details and censured many of the
                    specific persons and methods that he employed. Since Lincoln was unusually observant of and
                    responsive to public opinion, it was to play a major role in the tragedy of 186–865.
            
               
                  1 For the significant part played by Indiana in the selection of Lincoln
                        as a candidate see Charles Roll, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1931), II, 15–73; Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of
                        the Republican Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII,
                        88–10. Many Democrats had joined the new party in 1854 and later, hence those who
                        switched to Lincoln in 1860 are referred to as "additional Democratsquot;.
            
            
            The best available barometer of political opinon in Indiana during the Civil War was probably the
                    local newspaper. It was ordinarily located at the county seat, a country town of only a few hundred
                    or at most a few thousand inhabitants. There the editor associated closely with the people. He was
                    usually an influential member of the county and sometimes of the state political organization.2 His paper was the only regular source of political information for many
                    members of his party, and he frequently mixed news items with editorials to such an extent that it
                    was not always easy to distinguish facts from opinions. Consequently he helped to mold as well as to
                    express popular sentiment on public questions. Although the local editor was considerably influenced
                    by the leading metropolitan journals,3 upon which he was obliged to depend for
                    much of his information on national affairs, yet he often expressed the independent and even the
                    contrary view of his community.
            The first action of Abraham Lincoln as President-elect that particularly concerned the Indiana
                    Republicans was the formation of his Cabinet. Prior to 1861, no Hoosier had ever served in a
                    president's Cabinet, but three were to be appointed at various times by Lincoln. The
                    important role played by Indiana in his nomination and election was largely responsible for his
                    appointment of Caleb B. Smith, a prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer and former Congressman, as Secretary of the Interior. Smith had evidently been
                    promised a position at the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention and Lincoln's willingness to fulfill the agreement met with
                    considerable favor in Indiana.4 Still, opposition developed among some of the
                    Republicans. George W. Julian, former Freesoiler and now a Representative-elect, disliked such a
                    conservative for the cabinet and visited Lincoln at 
                        Springfield
                     partly for the purpose of protesting against the proposed appointment.6 The Indiana True Republican of 
                        Centerville
                    , edited by Julian's brother (Isaac Julian) complained that Lincoln should have
                    disregarded "mere claims for party service" by selecting "less
                    questionable" men in place of one or two cabinet members—doubtless referring to
                    Smith 
                  
                     2 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 53–69.
                  
                     3 The 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Gazette, 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial and 
                                Chicago
                             Tribune were among the most influential outstate Republican papers.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily edition used), Mar. 15, 1861. On Nov. 24, 1860, the 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald urged the President-elect to disregard the "newspaper
                            correspondents and gassy politicians" by selecting his own Cabinet.
                  
                     5 George W. Julian, Political Recollections (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 18–83; Grace Julian Clarke, George W.
                            Julian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 21–12. On Jan. 2, 1861, Smith wrote Julian asking him to
                            write Lincoln in his behalf. Giddings-Jullan Mas., Library of Congress.
               
                     and Simon Cameron.6 The chief opposition,
                    however, came from friends of Schuyler Colfax of 
                        South Bend
                    , member of the national House and editor of the 
                  St. Joseph
                            Valley Register. They brought "considerable pressure" upon
                    Lincoln for the selection of Colfax for a cabinet post, preferably as Postmaster-General.7 One of these Republicans wrote from LaPorte: "I hope Mr. Lincoln will
                    not be influenced by a clique of politicians in central Indiana to give Smith a place in the Cabinet
                    rather than the indefitequable [sic], faithful and consistent Republican and
                    incorruptible man Hon. S. Colfax." After the cabinet was announced Colfax's
                    editorial colleague complained:8
                    
                        Why Mr. Lincoln has chosen to so utterly disregard and defy the sentiment and wishes of the
                            whole Nation in this respect, we are unable to explain. It will be difficult to solve the
                            mystery on any grounds of public consideration or public duty.9
                  
                    
            
            As it became more and more evident between Lincoln's election and his inauguration that the
                    attempts of the Buchanan Administration to deal with southern secession were proving ineffectual,
                    the northern people turned to the President-elect for leadership. On his journey to the national
                    capital he stopped in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he took the opportunity, in a couple of brief speeches, to prepare the public
                    for his inaugural policy. Although the Democrats condemned his declaration, that the Union must be
                    defended at all costs, as provocative of war, the Republican papers defended his position as nothing
                    less than his duty and expressed "the utmost confidence in Mr. Lincoln's ability
                    and patriotism."10
            
            There was a much less favorable reaction, however, to Lincoln's secret night-ride into 
                        Washington
                     to avoid the alleged plot of a 
                        Baltimore
                     mob to assassinate him. Some of the Indiana Republicans defended his action, but others
                    expressed their regret and dissatisfaction that their first national Administration was coming into
                    power in such an undignified manner.11 According to the 
                  St. Joseph Valley Register
                    
                  
                     6 Mar. 14, 1861. On the other hand, Mar. 9, 1861, the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette praised the cabinet and declared that "the Republicans
                            generally are well pleased with it."
                  
                     7 O. J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1886), 17–76: John G. Nice-lay and John Hay, Abraham
                                Lincoln: A History (
                                New York
                            , 1890), III, 35–54.
                  
                     8 Charles J. Aldridge to Senator John Sherman of 
                                Ohio
                            , Feb. 8, 1861. John Sherman Mss., Library of Congress.
                  
                     9
                            
                        St. Joseph Valley Register, Mar. 7, 1861.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier (daily edition used), Feb. 14, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 12; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier (daily edition used), Feb. 14.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, Feb. 25, 26, 27, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 27: Mrs Henry S. Lane, "Memories of
                            Lincoln." Lane Mss., in possession of Helen Elston Smith, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            .
               
                     the news was received by the Republicans "with deep
                        humiliation."12
            
            Lincoln's inaugural address was conciliatory in tone but firm in its denial of the right of
                    secession and in its insistence that the Union must be maintained at all hazards. For a working
                    basis, the new President declared that his policy would be to enforce the laws and "to
                    hold, occupy and possess" the property of the Government. The response of his party
                    followers in Indiana was uniformly and enthusiastically favorable. Almost without exception they
                    commended his temperate but unequivocal language and his distinctly national outlook.13 One editor liked his "spirit of boldness, sincerity and unmistakable honesty
                    of purpose."14 Another declared that the address might not satisfy the
                    extremists of either side, but that it was "as near right as it was possible to make
                        it."15 Several believed that it would produce a good effect upon
                    the union men in the border slaveholding states as well as in the North. "If we have a man
                    in our nation suited to calm the troubled waters of rebellion, that man is Abraham
                    Lincoln"—such was the verdict of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette.
               16 Perhaps the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of March 3 expressed the views of the great mass of Indiana Republicans,
                    when it declared: 
                        The address has unquestionably fulfilled all reasonable expectations…. Altogether,
                            we think the Inaugural sustains and even elevates the character of its author for clear and
                            strong intellect, manly character, and forcible oratory.
                    
            
            This unanimity of approval of Lincoln's inaugural policy disappeared a few days later when
                    it was repeatedly rumored that the Administration had decided to abandon Fort Sumter to the
                    secessionists. To most of the Republicans such a step was unexpected and seemed like an immediate
                    desertion of the President's announced purpose to hold the property of the Government. Many
                    were deeply disappointed that their first President should at once pursue essentially the same
                    policy of yielding to "traitors" that they had previously condemned 
                  
                     12 Feb. 28, 1861. A similar opinion was expressed by John H. Harper,
                            Treasurer of 
                        St. Joseph county, South Bend
                     , to Schuyler Colfax, Feb.
                            25.—Colfax Mss., Library of Congress.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, Mar. 7, 1861, 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express (
                                Terre Haute
                             daily edition used for 186–862) Mar. 5; 
                                Rushville
                            
                            Republican, Mar. 6: 
                        St. Joseph Valley
                                Register, Mar. 7; 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press (
                                Muncie
                            ), Mar. 7; LaPorte Herald, Mar. 9.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Mar. 9, 1861.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Mar. 6, 1861.
                  
                     16 Mar. 9, 1861.
               
                     under Buchanan. Their embarrassment was intensified by
                    Democratic charges that Lincoln and his followers were "backing down."17 Some of the Republican editors admitted the popular dissatisfaction, but
                    explained that the President was in the best position to know all the circumstances and the
                    consequences involved.18 Others expressed complete confidence in 
                        Lincoln
                     and his Cabinet and urged the people to be patient while the Administration strove to
                    prevent the national difficulties from leading to civil war.19 Buchanan was
                    blamed by many Republicans for producing a situation which made the evacuation of Fort Sumter
                    necessary to preserve peace.20 Several papers withheld approval or condemnation
                    until they could ascertain all the facts in the case.21
            
            Some of the more aggressive Republicans frankly disapproved, though in restrained terms, the reported
                    intention of the Government. "There is a point beyond which ‘patience ceases to
                    be a virtue,’ " protested one good Republican,22
                    "and then justice must be meted out to all violators of law and order." The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal of March 16 lamented that 
                        the high hopes cherished by the Republicans that the honor and power of the government were
                            to be vindicated and treason checked and crushed out by the new administration seemed to be
                            dashed to the ground, and extreme humiliation and disgrace about to be imposed upon the
                            Union-loving men throughout the North and South.
                    
            
            The Indiana True Republican
               23 was glad that the Republican
                    papers, great and small, were "nearly unanimous in their condemnation of the proposition to
                    surrender Fort Sumter to the Southern traitors…. "
            Early in April, Indiana received the information that, despite previous reports, the Administration
                    was not planing 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Mar. 26, Apr. 10, 1861: 
                                La Porte
                             Herald, Mar. 16. On March 16, 1861, the Democratic 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Weekly Review declared: "On the first receipt of this peace
                            policy of Lincoln, the Republicans were much chagrined and mortified; many of them swore
                            that the news was false, that honest ‘Old Abe’ the prairie hero, would
                            never depart a hair's breadth from his ‘plain, practical and
                            sensible’ inaugural address."
                  
                     18
                            
                        
                                    Parke County
                                 Republican (
                                Rockville
                            ), Mar. 20, 1861.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Mar. 14, 1861; Indiana Herald (
                                Huntington
                            ) Mar. 13; 
                        
                                    Delaware County
                                 Times (
                                Muncie
                            ), Apr. 11.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Mar. 14, 1861; 
                        
                                    Putnam
                                 Republican Banner (
                                Greencastle
                            ), Mar. 21; Delphi Journal, Mar. 20.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, Mar. 14, 1861. The same day the 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press stated its position: "While we condemn the policy
                            of surrendering to traitors, under any circumstances, we feel disposed to await the result
                            before we enter our protest against the movement."
                  
                     22
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, Apr. 13, 1861. According to the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier of March 14, "This action on the part of Mr. Lincoln and
                            his Cabinet… will produce the most profound feeling of sorrow in the hearts of
                            millions of freemen over the whole Union—men who blush to think that the
                            rebels… should be the recipients of even temporary clemency at the hands of right
                            and justice…. We must confes to a momentary sense of humiliation."
                  
                     23 Mar. 21, 1861.
               
                     to abandon Fort Sumter but instead was sending additional
                    supplies to the garrison. Those who had previously defended the President's course were
                    prompt to explain that from the beginning he had been adhering to his inaugural policy and had
                    prudently kept his plans secret until they were ready for execution.24 Meanwhile
                    his former critics rejoiced that he had at last a definite policy to uphold the authority of the
                    Federal Government.25
            
            When the execution of the new policy led to the Confederate attack upon Fort Sumter and to
                    Lincoln's call for troops, Indiana responded with such enthusiasm that political
                    considerations were practically obliterated. Republicans almost to a man defended the
                    President's course and supported his war policy.26 The Federal
                    Government, however, was almost entirely unprepared for war, and, in the enormous task of organizing
                    men and means for the struggle, it was soon lagging far behind public sentiment and the demands of
                    most of the State Governments. Indiana Republicans soon became impatient with the refusal of the
                    Administration to accept more than the original allotment of troops and with its temporizing policy
                    toward secessionist activities in 
                        Maryland
                     which threatened to cut off 
                        Washington
                     from contact with the North." The 
                  
                            Putnam
                         Republican Banner urged the hanging of some of the arrested traitors as
                    examples. " ‘Death to traitors,’ whenever found, should be the motto
                    and should be rigidly carried out." "ACTION" was demanded by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal on April 23: 
                        Everything can be pardoned to the Administration now but indecision and want of energy. It
                            may blunder if the blunder be in the vigorous prosecution of a purpose…. The
                            Administration must now stop at no means necessary to the public safety and the security of
                            the Government…. Anything is pardonable now but inaction. The Country clamors for
                            energy, decision and determination.
                    
            
            In Indiana, as throughout the free states, a practically universal belief prevailed that the war
                    would be short; that, as soon as the Confederates were defeated in one or two important battles,
                    they would lay down their arms and return 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Apr. 6, 9, 1861; 
                        
                                    Delaware County
                                 Times, Apr. 11; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Apr. 6.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, Apr. 11, 1861.
                  
                     26 All of the newspapers examined by the writer were in this class.
                            Even the Democratic journals, after temporary hesitation on the part of some, were soon
                            swept into the current by the great popular uprising.
                  
                     27 As early as March 21 the 
                        
                                    Delaware County
                                 Times had censured the President's lack of military
                            preparations.
               
                     to their allegiance to the Federal Government. Consequently
                    some of the restless Republicans opposed the cautious and defensive military policy adopted by the
                    Administration. On May 4 the LaPorte Herald came out for "AN AGGRESSIVE
                    POLICY" and endorsed the position of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial: 
                        Instead of our Government sitting and quaking in the White House at 
                                Washington
                             let it now go out and strike the enemy in its strongholds. The soldiers are
                            ready at Mr. Lincoln's call; now let him use them….
                    
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal28 outlined the duty of the Administration: 
                        The unanimous voice of the Northern millions is for the swift and terrible punishment of
                            those who have attempted the overthrow of the Government. Any disposition on the part of the
                            administration to parley with traitors, or to compromise the Federal authority, will show
                            that the Administration is not true to the country, and that it fearfully and fatally
                            misapprehends the present temper of the North….
                    
            
            As soon as Oliver P. Morton became Governor in January, 1861, he assumed an aggressive and
                    unquestioned leadership of the Indiana Republicans, a position he was to maintain throughout the war
                    and beyond. A man of great energy and earnestness, Morton promptly convened the Legislature,
                    proceeded to the task of arming and equipping recruits, urged the War Department to accept
                    additional regiments with fewer restrictions and to furnish arms so that Indiana could defend her
                    southern border from threatened invasion. Aroused by popular impatience, he soon became intolerant
                    of the apparent cautiousness and procrastination of the Lincoln Administration.29 On May 2 Morton met with the Governors of several other States at 
                        Cleveland
                    , ostensibly to consult regarding some kind of joint action to sustain the Government
                    more effectively, but in reality to unite in protest against the Administration's conduct
                    of the war, especially the neglect of the West. The Governors drew up a memorial to the President,
                    recommending the pursuance of a vigorous and offensive war policy and the creation of a Department
                    of the West to coordinate operations along the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.30
                    
                  
                     28 May 1, 1861; also May 25; 
                        
                                    Putnam
                                 Republican Banner, May 16.
                  
                     29 William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 11–30.
                  
                     30
                            The War of the Rebellion: Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                            Armies, ser. III, vol. I, 16–70; Nicolay and Hay, Abraham
                                Lincoln, IV. 304; Thomas J. McCormack (ed.). Memoirs of Gustave
                                Koerner (Cedar Rapids, 1909), II, 13–41.
               
                     After his return to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Morton was "pretty severe on the Administration at 
                        Washington
                    ."31
            
            During May, Morton and the aggressive Republicans were particularly irritated by Lincoln's
                    leniency towards 
                        Kentucky
                    's refusal to support the Union even to the extent of permitting transit to
                    Federal troops. Such a step seemed like virtual rebellion, to be overcome by force if necessary. The
                    situation became so alarming that Morton invited the Governors of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     to meet him at Indianapois on May 21 for consultation. The group sent a memorandum to
                    the President, urging him to seize prominent cities and railroads in 
                        Kentucky
                     to prevent the secessionists from gaining control of the State.32
            
            By mid-summer of 1861, the impatience of the Indiana Republicans was abating somewhat. To be sure,
                    their chief journal still complained that the War Department was hampered by "red
                    tape", and that it refused to call forth sufficient troops to guarantee a short and
                    decisive war.33 Many others agreed with the 
                  
                            Putnam
                         Republican Banner that necessity demanded "the most vigorous
                    prosecution of the war", but they felt confident that such was the intention of the
                        Administration.34 The editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, apparently forgetting his previous insistence upon decisive action,
                    stoutly defended the President against the clamor of Greeley's 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune and other prominent journals for an immediate movement upon 
                        Richmond
                    : "The people have more confidence in the patriotism and honesty of Mr. Lincoln
                    than they have in any paper on earth."35
            
            In the popular gloom following the defeat at Bull Run on July 21, explanations of the cause of the
                    disaster were numerous and suggested remedies were plentiful. Many people were inclined to exonerate
                    the President and to attribute the blame to the newspaper clamor and Congressional pressure that
                    forced the Union army into a premature advance.36 Others 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., II, 141.
                  
                     32
                            Official Records, ser. III, vol. I, 158; Foulke, Oliver P.
                                Morton. I. 14–41; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier during May and June.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 21, 1861.
                  
                     34 July 11, 18, 1861.
                  
                     35 June 26, 1861. Lincoln's message to Congress on July 6 was
                            very well received in Indiana and helped to enhance his reputation for statesmanship—
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, July 9, 1861; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, (daily edition used), July 9; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, July 11.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, July 26, 30, 1861; 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, July 24. July 26 the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal maintained that such was "the sentiment of the whole community
                            here, and of the State so far as we know."
               
                     placed the responsibility more squarely upon the
                    Administration. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal contended that the Administration had failed to suppress the rebellion
                    because it had been "too slow to regard rebels as enemies—too slow to make war
                    upon them as it would have upon a foreign foe"; because many of the most prominent officers
                    of the Government, including some very near the President, were "utterly unfit to discharge
                    the duties assigned them—to rise equal to the great work required of them"; and
                    because General Scott, an old man of seventy-five, had been kept in command when "energy,
                    vigor and directness" were indispensable.37 Complaints were made that
                    the War Department had refused many of the troops offered by the states during the spring but now
                    found the army outnumbered in the first important engagement. "All we know,"
                    lamented the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal,38 is "that four months of the war have
                    passed, that our blockade is weak, that our armies are either beaten or driven back East and West,
                    and that at every point of collision we are outnumbered by the enemy."
            
            Some Republicans specifically requested the President to replace Secretaries Cameron and Welles by
                    more efficient and competent men. In his 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Times, on July 30, John Dawson urged Lincoln immediately to place "at the
                    head of the War Department some man of larger views, of more experience, and of commanding personal
                    reputation, than the present incumbent." Other journalists replied that "this
                    constant false clamoring against the Administration, and especially the War and Navy
                    Departments," was aiding the rebellion by dividing the Northern people.39
            
            The Bull Run episode convinced both the Administration and the people that the suppression of the
                    rebellion was going to be a much more difficult task than either had previously anticipated.
                    Although the people were willing to furnish the men and means requested, they were intolerant of the
                    delay considered necessary by the War Department for military preparation. Consequently, during the
                    late summer and autumn of 1861, some of the Hoosier Republicans became strongly dissatisfied with
                    certain phases of the Administration's 
                  
                     37 July 27, 22, 1861; also 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, July 26. July 24 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal said that the great "want" was for a
                            "hero… with mind enough to grasp and comprehend in all its minutiae and
                            detail the war in which we are engaged—one able to execute with swiftness and
                            celerity."
                  
                     38 Aug. 20, 1861.
                  
                     39
                            Wabosh Express, Sept. 14, 1861; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, July 80; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 4.
               
                     war program. They complained that treason was prevalent in many
                    sections of the North as well as the South, and that the authorities were doing practically nothing
                    to exterminate it.40 August 9 the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal strongly opposed the President's basic policy of considering the
                    Confederates as merely insurrectionary citizens to be won back by conciliation rather than as
                    enemies to be subjugated: 
                        Events are every day demonstrating that this leniency on the part of the Administration is
                            producing no good but only unmixed evil…. The folly of the course
                            pursued… thus far is so apparent, that both the army and the people will soon
                            become impatient, if not disgusted, and lose all heart in the contest….
                    
            
            Ordinarily the criticism was directed at "the Administration" in general,
                    consisting of the President and his immediate civil sub-ordinates, but on August 23 the chief
                    Republican organ of Indiana had "A FEW PLAIN WORDS" for the President personally:
                        
                        The Administration ought to give up everything else and think and act for the war
                            alone…. The President has acted a good deal as if the army were no particular
                            portion of his business, though an affair of interest enough to induce him to go out and
                            look at it once in a while…. He has let the politicians use up his time with
                            personal solicitations, when he should have… given the time to seeing that our
                            soldiers were well treated, and fit for the great duty laid upon them…. We
                            believe he ought to make the army his place of business now, and let politicians and
                            diplomatists go—well, let us say, go home….41
                  
                    
            
            During September the President's treatment of the West again aroused many of his aggressive
                    supporters. They felt that the neglect and inattention of the military authorities were permitting
                    the Confederates to overrun 
                        Kentucky
                     and threaten southern Indiana. Governor Morton repeatedly requested the War Department
                    to send arms for the militiamen so that they could protect the State from invasion. When he failed
                    to obtain satisfaction from subordinates, Morton wrote "freely and confidentially"
                    to the President, emphasizing the seriousness of the situation and concluding: 
                        It will be a sad day to you and to the nation when 
                                Kentucky
                             drifts into revolution. The misfortune at Bull's Run would be a mere
                            trifle compared with it, and it can best be averted in my humble judgment 
                        
                           40
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, July 25, 1861.
                        
                           41 August 29, 1861, the Indiana True
                                    Republican defended its censuring of the Administration: "We regard it as
                                    creditable to the independence and patriotism of the Republican press, that it
                                    freely criticises an administration of its own party."
                     
                             by thoroughly arming the militia of Southern Indiana
                            and stationing regular forces at proper points on the border….42
                  
                    Still without a satisfactory response from 
                        Washington
                    , Morton again wrote to Lincoln a few days later, warning that there was "no
                    time to be lost" if danger was to be averted.43
            
            Berry Sulgrove, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal and a friend of Morton, became the unofficial spokesman for the state in
                    this controversy. When certain editors tried to fasten the responsibility for the bad situation upon
                    the Governor,44 Sulgrove disclosed at length Morton's persistent but
                    futile efforts to secure troops or arms, and placed the blame upon the indifference of the Lincoln
                    Administration.
            The editor declared on September 24: 
                        All Government forces have been ordered off to one point or another. In case of invasion we
                            should be helpless, not because we have not men and pluck enough, but because the
                            Administration has paid no attention to our necessities, and bestowed no care in preparing
                            for the revolution in 
                                Kentucky
                             It has been blind and deaf, and if it were fighting in no better cause than its
                            own wisdom and energy it ought to be defeated. We speak very plainly for we feel very
                            deeply….
                    For several days the Journal continued to complain that the Administration
                    was discriminating against the West and was showing "a most irritating and dangerous indifference to the condition of the border after repeated warnings and urgent
                    requests for arms."45 The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal charged the Administration with "culpable indifference"
                    to Western conditions and sarcastically alleged that the chief duty of the military authorities
                    seemed to be to see that the President was "made safe in 
                        Washington
                    " and Mrs. Lincoln "uninterrupted in her French studies."46
            
            In the midst of all this criticism, Lincoln had some staunch supporters. While admitting that
                    "croaking and fault-finding" were prevalent, the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Express urged all loyal men to support the President and maintained that his
                    course would be the best in the long run.47 Even the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    
                  
                     42 Morton to Lincoln (undated, but according to the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal written about the first of September). Copy in Morton Mss.,
                            Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                  
                     43 Sept. 26, 1861.—Morton Mss. See also the letter of
                            Godlove S. Orth, prominent Republican of 
                                Lafayette
                            , to Richard W. Thompson, Oct. 11, 1861.—Thompson Mss.
                  
                     44 The 
                                Madison
                            
                            Coruier was in this class.
                  
                     45 Sept. 26, 28, Nov. 1, 4, 6, 1861.
                  
                     46 Sept. 20, Oct. 2, 4, 1861.
                  
                     47 Sept, 18, Oct. 6, 14, 26, 1861.
               
                    
                    Journal, which frequently censured the Administration, declared on September 18:
                        
                        No man stands higher in the affections of the American people than President Lincoln. Amidst
                            all the detraction and criticism which have been visited upon his councillors and agents, no
                            word has been uttered against the President himself. He possesses the confidence of the
                            American people more thoroughly than any other public man since the days of Andrew Jackson.
                            They feel that he is an honest man, that he labors with but a single eye to the glory, the
                            greatness, and the perpetuity of this Republic….48
                  
                    
            
            Before the situation in 
                        Kentucky
                     improved sufficiently to satisfy the critical Republicans, the President and his
                    Cabinet aroused more extensive opposition by their treatment of General John C. Freemont, the Union
                    commander in 
                        Missouri
                    . The General's proclamation of freedom for the slaves of rebels had been
                    received by the great mass of Indiana Republicans and even by some Democrats as a decided step in
                    the right direction.49 Although Indiana had a smaller proportion of
                    abolitionists or emancipationists than any other northwestern state, a great number of Hoosier
                    Republicans were coming to believe that the surest way to weaken the rebellion was to strike at
                    slavery.
            When Lincoln, therefore, in pursuance of his cautious border-state policy, ordered 
                        Fremont
                     to modify his proclamation in regard to emancipation, many Republicans were severely
                    disappointed. Some papers, to be sure, were willing to admit that probably the course taken by the
                    President was "the most prudential one."50 Others attempted to
                    harmonize the two policies by contending that "the effect" of both was the
                        same.51 A few editors who could not approve of Lincoln's action
                    published his modification order without comment.52 But many of the strongly
                    anti-slavery Republicans were so sure that 
                        Fremont
                     was right and the President wrong that they had to express their dissatisfaction with
                    the latter's position. "This is very generally condemned as a most unwise 
                  
                     48 See also the letter of Joe Sullivan of 
                                Madison
                             to Richard W. Thompson, Sept, 18, 1861. Thompson Mss.
                  
                     49 Of the Republican papers examined, none openly opposed the
                            proclamation and only the 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express (September 2) assumed a questioning attitude. September 7 the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette said of 
                                Fremont
                            's action: "This is what should have been done at the
                            commencement of the struggle; there has been too much of the milk and water in the hitherto
                            course of both government and commanding officers—too much regard for the
                            feelings and sympathies of men in open and undisguised treason against the
                            Government."
                  
                     50
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, Sept. 21, 1861; Dawaon's Times and
                            Union (daily edition used), Sept. 17; Indiana Herald, Oct. 2.
                  
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 16, 1861: Wabaah Express, Sept. 22.
                  
                     52
                            
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald, Sept. 21, 1861; 
                        
                                    Parke County
                                 Republican, Sept, 18.
               
                     movement," observed the Indiana True
                        Republican on September 19, and operates "for the aid and comfort of slavery and
                    of the rebellion." The editor hoped that public sentiment would compel the Administration
                    to let 
                        Fremont
                     manage matters "according to his better judgment." The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier denounced Lincoln's action as "an ignominious backing
                    down,—the second Bull's Run of a badly managed campaign."53 Julian later declared that the President's modification initiated a
                    "pro-slavery reaction" and checked the popular enthusiasm for the war by repeating
                        
                        the ineffable folly of still relying upon a policy of moderation and conciliation in dealing
                            with men who had defiantly taken their stand outside of the Constitution and laws, and could
                            only be reached by the power of war.54
                  
                    
            
            A few days after the proclamation episode, rumors began to reach Indiana that the President had
                    decided to remove 
                        Fremont
                     for alleged incompetence and mismanagement. The former "Pathfinder"
                    had already won such a reputation in the West for energy and accomplishment that most of the
                    Republicans became greatly excited, charging that there was a cabal on the part of jealous
                    politicians, headed by the Blairs, to get rid of him.55 The popular impression
                    developed that 
                        Fremont
                     was being persecuted and many rallied to his defense. One irate editor warned: 
                        The Administration will do well to beware. It is trifling with the feelings of the West in a
                            manner that will prove disastrous, unless more of a disposition is manifested to consult
                            their wishes and opinions…,56
                  
                    
            
            Some Republicans wanted the President to know that the West cared nothing for the entire Blair family
                    and expressed confidence that 
                        Fremont
                     was the right man in the right place.57 Others strongly condemned
                    the Administration's publication of the charges against the General while he remained in
                    command, as a "monstrous wrong" and an improper "violation of official
                        impartiality."58
            
            When Lincoln finally did remove 
                        Fremont
                     for his inefficiency, the majority of the Hoosier Republicans were still Unconvinced
                        
                  
                     53 Sept. 19, 1861; also 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 19; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 16.
                  
                     54
                            Political Recollections, 200; George W. Julian, Speeches on
                                Political Questions (
                                New York
                            , 1872). 208.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                            Republican, Oct. 9, 1861; Indiana True Republican, Oct.
                            10; 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press, Oct. 17.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 4, 1861.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 23, 1861; Indiana True Republican, Oct.
                            20.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 4, 1861; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Coruier, Nov. 4; 
                                Rushville
                            
                            Republican, Nov. 6; 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald, Nov. 9.
               
                     of the wisdom of the action. A few felt that the removal was
                    necessary for "more efficient and successful military operations in the West."59 But many others profoundly regretted the "mistake," fearing
                    that it would demoralize the Western army. They expected "the most disastrous
                    consequences" from "this untimely act."60
                    
                        Fremont
                    's removal was still attributed by some to the "malignant
                    influence" of the Blairs and other "wicked men," who were denounced as
                    scoundrels and " a set of villains."61 The President was
                    admonished to rely less upon them and to "exercise his own good judgment,
                    and be, as he ought, the PRESIDENT of the 
                        United States
                    ."62 Most Republicans, however, believing it their duty to
                    sustain the Administration fully in the prosecution of the war, accepted its decision,
                    "whether it accords with our convictions of right or not."63
                    Many other supporters of the President were not so easily satisfied. Some believed that the removal
                    constituted "the worst mistake… the most unfortunate act of the whole
                        war."64 Isaac Julian expressed his—and perhaps his
                    brother's—opposition by publishing his criticism between black mourning
                        lines.65 Another indignant editor declared that when the proper time came
                    the people would hold the President and his co-workers to a strict account of their stewardship.66 "If it had been determined to make the whole 
                        Fremont
                     imbroglio one huge blunder to be capped with the biggest blunder of all,"
                    lamented the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal,
               67 "the plan could not have succeeded more
                    perfectly." Another angry Republican ridiculed the Administration's charges of
                    incapacity against 
                        Fremont
                     inasmuch as "incompetency, inefficiency, inaction and inexcusable
                    blunders" had characterized the general management of the war from its outbreak. He
                    continued without restraint to express his 
                        utter condemnation of some of the acts of the head of the government and his constitutional
                            advisers…. I speak advisedly when I say I express the opinion of the entire mass
                            of those who by their votes placed 
                        
                           59
                                    Dawson's Times and Union. Nov. 8, 1861.
                        
                           60
                                    
                              St. Joseph Valley Register, Nov. 7, 1861; Indiana True Republican, Nov. 7; 
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Gazette, Nov. 9.
                        
                           61
                                    
                              
                                            Delaware
                                         Free Press, Nov. 7, 1861; 
                              
                                            Wabash
                                         Express, Nov. 7; 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    
                                    Journal, Nov. 7.
                        
                           62
                                    
                              
                                            Wabash
                                         Express, Oct. 26, 1861: 
                              St. Joseph
                                            Valley Register, Nov. 7.
                        
                           63
                                    
                                        Rushville
                                    
                                    Republican, Nov. 6, 1861; 
                              
                                            Parker County
                                         Republican, Nov. 13; LaPorte Herald, Nov.
                                    16.
                        
                           64
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, Nov. 7, 1861: 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    
                                    Journal, Nov. 7.
                        
                           65
                                    Indiana True Republican, Nov. 7, 1861.
                        
                           66
                                    
                              
                                            Delaware
                                         Free Press, Nov. 7, 1861.
                        
                           67 Nov. 7, 1861.
                     
                             Mr. Lincoln in the Executive mansion. The
                            unsophisticated masses of the people love ‘fair play,’ and though they
                            are warmly attached to Old Abe, … they are equally devoted to John C.
                            Fremont… I rather guess the next Presidential election will disclose whom the
                            people regard as incompetent.68
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Fremont
                     controversy had scarcely subsided when Lincoln's supporters were again
                    perturbed by the conservative nature of his treatment of the slavery question in his annual message
                    to Congress. The vast majority of Republicans endorsed the President's position as
                    "true statesmanship."69 The general introduction of the
                    emancipation issue, they believed, would tend to divide the loyal people at a time when united
                    effort was essential for the successful conduct of the war. On December 11 the 
                  
                            Parke County
                         Republican struck a popular chord when it declared that Lincoln's
                    policy was "the only one that will restore tranquility to the country."
                    Conservatives like John Dawson declared "the entire production highly creditable to
                    President Lincoln" and rejoiced that he had not been led astray by the abolitionist demands
                    for "unwise and extreme measures."70 One enthusiast insited
                    that "Old Abe" represented "the great majority of the American people
                    better than any other public man."71
            
            Such satisfaction, however, was not universal. Some of the emancipationists expressed hostility to
                    Lincoln's stand, despite the fact that they were less numerous and influential in Indiana
                    than in the neighboring free states. The 
                        La Porte
                    
                    Herald regretted that the President had not "come right down to the work
                    and taken the bull by the horns," and thought the message "below the expectation
                    of the country."72 A prominent Republican of 
                        Indianapolis
                     protested: "Is our Government healthy, when the escape of a man [Negro] to his
                    natural rights [freedom], creates more regret and alarm on the part of our rulers, than the murder
                    of our sons by a Godless band of conspirators against our national life?"73 A few weeks later, Julian made a long speech in the House of Representatives denouncing
                        
                  
                     68 Letter from "Omega" to the editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 19, 1861.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 7, 9, 10, 1861; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, Dec. 4; 
                        
                                    Putnam
                                 Republican Banner, Dec. 12; Delphi Journal, Dec. 4; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 12, 
                                
                                    Delaware
                                
                             Free Press, Dec. 12.
                  
                     70
                            Dawson's Times and Union, Dec. 6, 7, 10, 1861.
                  
                     71 A letter of "B. W" in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 9, 1861.
                  
                     72 Dec. 7, 1861. On November 23 and 30 the editor had declared:
                            "The 
                                United States
                             has been playing war too much while the South has been in earnest from the
                            commencement."
                  
                     73 J. W. Gordon to George W. Julian, Jan. 29, 1862.
                            Giddlngs—Julian Mss. For similar complaint see, 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 4, 1862; 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, Dec. 27, 1861; letter of "T" in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 11, 1861.
               
                     the "pro-slavery" policy of the
                    Administration as responsible for the slow progress of the war.74
            
            Fundamentally, however, the cause of all this discontent among the Indiana Republicans during the
                    winter of 186–862 was the apparent lack of progress in suppressing the rebellion. The
                    people felt that they were furnishing all the men and money asked for by the Administration, and yet
                    nothing tangible was being accomplished. Soldiers had been recruited by the hundreds of thousands,
                    but the armies were still on the defensive and doing very little actual fighting. As the nice autumn
                    months rolled by and bleak winter days approached, many of Lincoln's political supporters
                    became exceedingly impatient for military victories. They were particularly disappointed because the
                    Army of the Potomac, which had been under the command of General McClellan since July 27, remained
                    inactive near 
                        Washington
                    , instead of attempting to drive the Confederates back to 
                        Richmond
                    . Many felt that the ultimate responsibility rested with the President, inasmuch as he,
                    as Commander-in-Chief, could order an advance or change commanding generals. Julian was a member of
                    the new Congressional Committee on the Conduct of the War that was continually pressing Lincoln and
                    McClellan for military action during this period.75 In frequent editorials, the
                    Republican papers deprecated "The Delay Policy" and demanded "A Vigorous
                    Prosecution of the War."76 One editor expressed reluctance "to
                    find fault with the action of the Administration" but regretted that the war policy of the
                    Government seemed "to lack that vigor and efficiency so necessary in dealing with this
                        rebellion."77 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal complained that it appeared "to be the fixed policy of the
                    Government to do nothing ahead of the rebels but to wait for their movements, and then make ours so
                    much later that they can't possibly succeed." Disheartened by the
                    "aggregation of bad news, wretched management, and disgraceful indifference," the
                    editor insisted that "the whole of the gloomy appearance is due to one thing only, the rebels are doing something, and we are not."78
            
            
               
                  74
                        Congressional Globe, 37 Congress, 2 session, pp. 32–32 (Jan. 14,
                        1862).
               
                  75 Julian, Political Recollections, 20–06.
               
                  76
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 4, 6, Dec. 16, 1861, Jan. 24, 1862; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Journal, Jan. 13, 27, Feb. 6, 1862; 
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Courier, Feb. 5, 1862; 
                     St. Joseph Valley
                            Register, Dec. 12, 1861; 
                            Mishawaka
                        
                        Enterprise, Jan. 25, 1862.
               
                  77
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, Jan. 4, 1862.
               
                  78 Nov. 4, Dec. 16, 1861.
            
            
            When the Trent Affair threatened to involve the 
                        United States
                     in trouble with Great Britain, many felt that military success was more than ever
                    necessary to avert the calamity of foreign intervention.79 On December 30, 1861,
                    the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier expressed the views of thousands of Hoosiers when it grumbled: 
                        
                     Another month of such masterly inactivity,—such stupendous
                            imbecility as has characterized the campain thus far, and the formal recognition of the
                            Southern Confederacy and the breaking of our blockade are foregone
                        conclusions….
                    
            
            One of Julian's disgruntled friends wrote privately that it was futile to expect the
                    President to correct any of the abuses: 
                        In the first place he has no positive qualities, however trivial. He is a
                            mere puppet in the hands of others. Those who control him are men who are either in the interest of Slavery—or the fomenting and aiding of the
                                rebellion. It is vain to shut our eyes to these facts….
                        When I think of the labor and sacrifice, the Union loving Republican party sustained to
                            elevate Abraham Lincoln to his present position and now see him fill all the great and
                            important lines of the Army not only with Democrats, but with that class of Democrats who
                            six months ago rather fomented than opposed this atrocious rebellion, I am ready to believe
                            almost that either honor is extinct, or the atmosphere of 
                                Washington
                             has capacities in it to destroy all true loyal manhood….80
                  
                    
            
            Amidst such popular discontent it was easy for Indiana Republicans to find fault with their Chief
                    Executive. Some of them censured him severly for permitting Mrs. Lincoln to give a large
                    "Dancing Party" at the White House when the nation was in such dire need of money
                    to finance the war. The leading journal bluntly declared that 
                        such displays as that at the White House are a disgrace to the President, which we trust may
                            never occur again. He is not the man for the place if he cannot prohibit such useless waste
                            of money when money is so much needed… and it is about time the President has
                            learned that he has no business to give to such idle, and even pernicious
                            displays…. If his own good sense cannot teach him this he should be taught it by
                            a stern expression of public censure. It is no time for fooling in such a season of mourning
                            and desolation.81
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  79
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, Jan. 4, 24, 1862; 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Journal, Jan. 2; Indiana True Republican, Feb. 13. Some
                        Republicans were not entirely satisfied with the way the Lincoln Administration had handled the
                        Trent Affair, especially the release of Mason and Slidell. "We cannot help looking upon
                        this act as unworthy of the American Republic, and disgraceful to the Nation."—
                            Rushville
                        
                        Republican, Jan. 1, 1862. See also 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Dec. 30, 1861; 
                     St. Joseph Valley
                            Register, Jan. 2, 1862.
               
                  80 F. M. Finch [?], 
                            Franklin
                        , to Julian, Jan. 26, 1862.—Giddings-Julian Mss.
               
                  81 Feb. 8, 1862. For similar expression see 
                     
                                Parke County
                             Republican, Feb. 12, 1862.
            
            
            During the late winter and early spring of 1862 the Union armies finally began to move southward, and
                    for several months they were victorious in practically every important engagement, especially those
                    in the West. With the energetic Stanton becoming Secretary of War in January, 1862, in place of the
                    incompetent Cameron, the confidence of the Northern people in their military superiority rose
                    rapidly. Almost unanimously they came to believe that their armies would conquer the Confederates,
                    capture their capital and crush out the rebellion before the end of the year. Under these
                    circumstancs, the previous dissatisfaction of the Indiana Republicans with their President and his
                    policies tended to disappear.82 In the meantime Lincoln's repeated
                    advocacy of voluntary and compensated emancipation, and his declaration in May that a proclamation
                    of emancipation might become necessary, quieted the opposition of the radical anti-slavery men
                    without seriously weakening his conservative support.83 In many cases this
                    approval was more tacit than expressed, but often the press liberally commended the course of the
                        President.84
            
            This popular confidence and enthusiasm continued through May and June' while McClellan was
                    apparently making steady progress toward the capture of 
                        Richmond
                    , which was expected to break the backbone of the rebellion. During July, however, the
                    unwelcome news reached Indiana that the Army of the Potomac had been defeated before the Confederate
                    Capital and that thousands of additional troops would be needed to bring the war to a successful
                    conclusion. Discouragement and gloom began to settle upon the people. Almost immediately the
                    attitude of the Republicans toward the Administration changed again. Confident that the Union
                    superiority of men and resources was easily adequate for the suppression of the rebellion, they
                    became convinced that failure must be due to the Administration's military policy and to
                    the personnel of the Army leaders.
            A widespread popular protest arose against the President's supposed policy of attempting to
                    coax the rebels back 
                  
                     82 See especially 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald. Mar. 1. May 10, 1862; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 14. Some editors, however, were dissatisfied with
                            Grant's generalship and conduct at 
                                Shiloh
                             and opposed his retention in command after the battle.—
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Apr, 18, 19, 1862; Ind: anapolis Journal, Apr.
                            21, 29.
                  
                     83
                            
                        
                                    Parke County
                                 Republican, Mar. 12, 1862; 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald, Mar. 16; 
                        St. Joseph Valley
                                Register. Mar 13; 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, May 19; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, May 20. Dawson's Times and Union of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             was one of the few conservative "Unionists" who already felt
                            that the President had gone too far on the emancipation question.—Apr. 1, May 20,
                            1862.
                  
                     84 Delphi Journal, Feb. 6, 1862; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, Mar. 15; 
                                Princeton
                            
                            Clarion, Mar. 15; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, May 20.
               
                     to their allegiance.85 Impatient
                    Republicans loudly demanded the abandonment of "the rose water policy."86 "The idea that by a tender footed policy the erring South can be won
                    back is all moonshine," exclaimed the 
                        La Porte
                    
                    Herald.
               87 "We have had enough of this conservative
                    policy," protested the 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Free Press on August 8: 
                        We have been pelting the rebels with tufts of grass quite long enough. It is now time for us
                            to try what virtue there is in earnest fighting and energetic confiscation. We must cease to
                            feed them on the milk of human kindness, and treat them as enemies.
                    
            
            A practically unanimous cry went up from the President's supporters for "a more
                    vigorous prosecution of the war." They wanted him to recruit sufficient men to meet any
                    emergency, to overwhelm the Confederates by making victory swift and certain. If volunteering did
                    not readily supply the needs, they would have him resort to conscription and requisitioning.88 Public meetings were held in every important city to help raise new regiments
                    and to request that these be employed more actively and effectively. The people adopted solemn
                    resolutions and listened to stirring speeches by prominent civilians and soldiers urging the
                    Administration to use any and every means to crush the rebellion.89
            
            With scarcely an exception Republican newspapers clamored for the adoption of a more rigorous and
                    determined war policy. They wanted the Government to punish traitors wherever found, to seize and
                    use enemy property whenever needed for the army, to cease to worry about escaping slaves, to employ
                    negroes to dig trenches and build fortifications. "There is no use of boys' play
                    any longer," declared the 
                        Mishawaka
                    
                    Enterprise, "up and at them [the Confederates] with both hands, strike
                    right and left—anywhere to hurt the most and bring them to terms the
                        quickest."90 Even conservative John Dawson complained that it was
                    high time that rebels were treated as traitors and "a few examples" were made
                        
                  
                     85
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, July 12, 1862; 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald, July 12; 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press, Aug. 14, letter from "R. M."
                  
                     86
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, July 14, 1862.
                  
                     87 June 28, 1862; also July 19.
                  
                     88 Caleb Smith said he expressed the views of many prominent men when
                            he wrote from 
                                Bedford
                             Springs to Secretary Chase (and to the President) on July 30, urging a draft if
                            necessary: "If it is not done the Administration will be held to a fearful
                            responsibility. Why should we prosecute the war with inadequate means when ample means are
                            at our disposal? Why not end all doubt by at once bringing the power of the country into
                            requisition? It is no time to doubt or hesitate. Nothing but the most bold and vigorus
                            measures can save us…. "—Chase Mss., 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Historical Society.
                  
                     89 See, for example, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 7, 1862
                  
                     90 July 26, 1862. For even stronger language see 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press, Aug. 7.
               
                     of the leaders.91 Caleb Smith,
                    Indiana's representative in the Cabinet, wrote to Secretary Chase and to the President,
                    expressing similar views: "The rebels have demanded war—Jet us give
                    war—real terrible war in earnest…. "92
            
            Such popular unanimity as that for a more vigorous prosecution of the war did not prevail in regard
                    to the correct course to be pursued toward the complicated slavery question. Most Republicans agreed
                    that the Government should employ negroes for much of the manual labor of the armies, but their
                    opinions differed widely concerning the wisdom of arming the blacks or declaring free the slaves of
                    rebels. The resolutions adopted at most of the public meetings were silent on these controversial
                    matters, while some of the leading journals had very little to say, apparently acquiescing in the
                    Administration's position.93 Indiana in all probability still contained
                    less emancipation sentiment than any other state of the Northwest. While such strong anti-slavery
                    papers as the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal, the 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Free Press and the Indiana True Republican repeatedly
                    contended that slavery was the cause and the main support of the rebellion, their editors seldom
                    criticized the President's policy openly.
            When Lincoln declared on August 22 that his paramount object was "to save the Union, and not
                    either to save or to destroy slavery," the reaction in Indiana as elsewhere was quite
                    varied. While some Republicans still maintained silence on the subject, others highly commended his
                    stand. Berry Sulgrove, who had said little about the slavery question, fully approved: "The
                    President's reply is admirable in temper, and takes the only ground he can take in regard
                    to the bearing of the war upon slavery."94 Much more enthusiastic was
                    the Indiana Herald of September 3, paying Lincoln one of the few high compliments
                    of this period: 
                        He is taking his own time and his own way, as he has a perfect right to do—for on
                            him rests the responsibility. He understands the people perfectly. It will not be long ere
                            the people understand him. His plans are all matured, far ahead…. His principal
                            anxiety is NOT TO DIVIDE THE NORTH. He is fully up to the advancing sentiment of the age,
                            and will prove himself the man for the hour….
                    
            
            
               
                  91
                        Dawson's Times and Union, July 17, 1862.
               
                  92 July 30, 1862.—Chase Mss., Pa. Hist. Society. Smith told
                        Chase that he had written a similar letter to the President.
               
                  93 In this class were such prominent papers as the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal and the 
                            Rushville
                        
                        Republican.
               
               
                  94 August 25, 1862. See also 
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, Aug. 8; 
                     St. Joseph Valley
                        Register, Sept, 18.
            
            
            The emancipationists, on the other hand, were deeply disappointed and even disgusted with the
                    President's attitude. One expressed fear that "rivers of blood… must
                    flow over the land, gloom and sorrow must settle down yet blacker and deeper upon it, before the
                    strange spell of infatuation, which seems to have seized upon our rulers, will be
                        broken."95 Robert Dale Owen, prominent Unionist of 
                        New Harmony
                    , bombarded Lincoln and Chase with stirring appeals and fervent prayers in behalf of the
                    people for the adoption of an emancipation policy.96 When, a few days later, the
                    Union armies sustained serious reverses in both 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , the critics of the Administration became very severe, even bitter. The Julian brothers
                    insisted that "the monstrous mismanagement of the present war almost from the beginning,
                    and particularly in the light of late developments, is perfectly
                    astounding—appalling." It results "simply from the vain, the insane
                    effort of the Administration and its agents, the leading generals in the field, to save
                        SLAVERY."97
            
            All this denunciation of the man who was soon to become "The Great Emancipator"!
                    For on September 22, 1862, President Lincoln, partially in response to the anti-slavery clamor
                    throughout the North, issued his preliminary Emancipation Proclamation. The Indiana Republicans may
                    be divided roughly into four classes according to their reaction to the new war policy. The
                    impatient, critical emancipationists gave a deep sigh of relief and ungratefully exclaimed:
                        "At last, the President is arousing himself to a solemn
                        duty."98 Some expressed regret that emancipation did not take
                    immediate effect—but hastened to exclaim: "Thank God for it as it
                        is."99 Others hailed "the President's
                    proclamation as the dawn of a new era in the history of the world" and as the greatest
                    document since the Declaration of Independence.100
            
            Among another class of Republicans the response was more moderate and practical. They saw in the
                    Proclamation chiefly a new war policy which would materially facilitate the 
                  
                     95
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 28, 1862.
                  
                     96 Letters to Chase on Aug. 20, Sept. 12, 15, 17, 1862, in which Owen
                            enclosed two letters for the President and indicated that he had also written to him
                            directly.—Chase Mas., Pa. Hist. Society.
                  
                     97
                            Indiana True Republican, Sept. 11, 1862. This paper at the time was so
                            much engrossed in George W. Julian's campaign for re-election to Congress that it
                            may fairly be considered to represent his as well as his brother's (Isaac, the
                            editor) views on national issues. See also George W. Julian, Political
                                Recollections, 22–23, where Lincoln's policy is described as a
                            "cruel and fatal mistake."
                  
                     98
                            Indiana True Republican, Sept. 25, 1862; 
                        
                                    Delaware
                                 Free Press, Sept. 25.
                  
                     99
                            Indiana True Republican, Sept. 25, 1862; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 23.
                  
                     100
                            Ibid.;
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 27, 1862.
               
                     suppression of the rebellion by shifting the economic and
                    military strength of the slaves from the South to the North.101 The third group
                    included those who were not so desirous of the freeing of the Negroes but acquiesced in the
                    President's decision. They were afraid that emancipation would prove more detrimental than
                    beneficial to the country and perhaps to their own economic or political fortunes. Most of the
                    newspaper editors in this group made little comment on the proclamation until Democratic attacks
                    upon its constitutionality and expediency impelled them to defend it as a necessary and legal war
                        measure.102 This class was most numerous in the southern part of the state,
                    but included such a prominent organ as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. In the last category, were a relatively few wavering and independent
                    Republicans who professed to believe that the President had gone over to the
                    "Radicals", and that the patriotic course now was to co-operate with the
                    conservatives (Democrats) to prevent further "abolitionizing of the warquot;.103
            
            Although the Emancipation Proclamation silenced the anti-slavery clamor, it did not satisfy the
                    popular longing for decisive military success. The President and his commanding generals were held
                    responsible for failure or defeat, since it was believed that they had received all the troops and
                    supplies requested. Many aggressive Republicans who disliked General McClellan because he was
                    alleged to be a "pro-slavery" Democrat wanted Lincoln to remove him from command
                    after his failure to take 
                        Richmond
                    . They felt much as did Caleb B. Smith did when he wrote to Chase:
                    "McClellan's imbecility has wasted a year of precious time—has nearly
                    destroyed the finest army that was ever organized and has sacrificed hundreds of millions of
                        dollars."104 Most of the editors, however, felt constrained to
                    withhold their criticism in order not to weaken public confidence in the commanding general.105
            
            
               
                  101
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Express. Sept. 24, Oct. 6, 1862: 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 26: 
                     St. Joseph Valley
                            Register, Sept. 25; 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Gazette. Sept. 27; 
                     
                                Parke County
                             Republican, Oct. 1.
               
                  102
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, Sept. 26, 1862; Indiana Herald, Oct. 1; 
                            La Porte
                        
                        Herald, Oct. 11; Delphi Journal, Oct. 22; 
                            Princeton
                        
                        Clarion, Oct. 25. Even the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal had nothing to say until September 27, when the editor was aroused by
                        the jibes and arguments of the Democratic State Sentinel.
               
               
                  103
                        Dawson's Times and Union of 
                            Fort Wayne
                         represented this group—Sept. 25, Oct. 16, 17, 1862.
               
                  104 July 30, 1862.—Chase Mss., Pa. Hist. Society.
               
                  105
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 11, 1862; 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 13; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 15; 
                            La Porte
                        
                        Herald, Nov. 15; 
                     
                                Delaware
                             Free Press, Nov. 13.
            
            
            During September and October, 1862, the dissatisfaction in Indiana with the Administration's
                    management of military affairs reached its greatest intensity. General Lee had severely defeated the
                    Union army at the Second Battle of Bull Run (Manassas) and then had invaded 
                        Maryland
                     with his victorious army; other Confederate forces had eluded Buell's Union
                    army in 
                        Tennessee
                    , invaded 
                        Kentucky
                    , and were threatening 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . Evidently the military situation was going from bad to worse, and a general feeling of
                    anxiety, doubt and distrust prevailed.106
            
            Although a few Republicans maintained that the government was not "indifferent or
                    idle" and admonished the people not to "give way to foolish panics,"107 most of them were extremely disgruntled. Some of the more outspoken
                    denounced the Administration in bitter and even threatening terms. On September 10, the usually
                    judicious 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Express unhesitatingly took the Government to task for scattering its forces,
                    instead of concentrating them at vital points in sufficient numbers to crush the resistance of the
                    enemy. 
                        The fault is alone with the Government and its officers. They have squandered our resources
                            and accomplished nothing. No definite policy has been followed. Everything indicates
                            indecision and imbecility. The management of our forces has been disgraceful and
                            humiliating…. The generalship is bad and the Government is bad for tolerating
                        it.
                    
            
            Julian's organ virtually threatened the President's right to control the armies
                    unless he improved conditions at once: 
                        The idea… that it may become necessary for the PEOPLE to take the salvation of the
                            country directly into their own hands, it may soon become a necessity to act upon. This
                            great Republic must not be permitted to perish through the incapacity or half-heartedness of
                            those who stand as its civil and military agents. God and the People forbid!108
                  
                    
            
            Though McClellan turned Lee's army back at 
                        Antietam
                     and relieved the tension in regard to the East, the military situation in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was more vital to Indiana, continued to be very distressing. By September most
                    Republicans were thoroughly apprehensive that General Buell was either too incompetent or too
                    indifferent to lead the army to victory, and therefore they began to bring pressure upon Lincoln for
                    his removal. One disgusted editor declared that 
                  
                     106
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 16, 1862; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 11.
                  
                     107
                            Ibid., Sept. 12, 1862.
                  
                     108
                            Indiana True Republican, Sept. 11, 1862.
               
                     the public so distrusted him "as to be prepared for
                    hearing on any day of any disaster of any magnitude."109 Governor
                    Morton, who had a personal dislike for Buell, eagerly assumed leadership in this movement, with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal as his organ.110 "The salvation of the
                    West," proclaimed the editor on October 1, "depends on the removal of so
                    inefficient a general." A few days later the energetic Morton was in 
                        Washington
                     imploring the President to appoint a more earnest and aggressive commander, in order to
                    prevent the people and soldiers from losing heart in the struggle. "Another three months
                    like the last six and we are lost—lost"—such was Morton's
                        verdict.111
            
            When it was learned that an order for Buell's removal had been sent and then countermanded,
                    Sulgrove protested that the latter action was "almost increditable [sic]" in the face of such popular dissatisfaction. "It was well calculated
                    to shake all confidence in Mr. Lincoln's administration."112
                    On October 21, after the battle of Perryville, Morton telegraphed the President of the terrible and
                    needless butchery of Union soldiers and of Bragg's escape from Buell. "Nothing but
                    success, speedy and decided," he concluded, "will save our cause from utter
                    destruction. In the Northwest distrust and despair are seizing upon the hearts of the
                        people."113 Four days later Morton was ready to go to 
                        Washington
                     to press his demand when he received news of Buell's removal.114 The prevailing Republican sentiment was summarized: "Tardy justice has been
                    done to the more flagrant incompetence which the whole war has exhibited."115
            
            In the midst of all this gloom and discontent, occurred the fall elections for congressmen and some
                    of the state officials. As there had been no important political contest since Lincoln's
                    election, this was the first opportunity to secure an accurate and numerical test of the popular
                    strength of the Administration 
                  
                     109
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier. Sept. 6, 1862; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 20, Sept. 22, 30.
                  
                     110 Foulke, Oliver P. Morton, I, 19–96;
                            J. D. Cox, "General Buell," The Nation, Oct. 2, 1884. On
                            September 8, 1862, the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier declared that several prominent men from the West, including
                            Senator Henry S. Lane and Colonel Richard Thompson of Indiana, "have been in 
                                Washington
                             for some days urging upon the President the acceptanc of a proposition for the
                            consolidation of troops of the Northwestern States into one grand division under the command
                            of Governor Morton."
                  
                     111 Foulke, Oliver P. Morton, I, 19–97.
                  
                     112
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 1, 27, 1862.
                  
                     113 Foulke, Oliver P. Morton, I, 19–99.
                  
                     114
                            Ibid., 199.
                  
                     115
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 27, 1862; 
                                Princeton
                            
                            Clarion, Oct. 25, 1862; Indiana Herald, Oct. 29, 1862;
                            A. B. Crane, an officer in 85th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, 
                        Lexington, Ky.
                     , to Richard W. Thompson.—Thompson Mss.
               
                     and its policies. In most counties the Republicans invited the
                    Democrats to join with them in forming a "Union Party" upon a broad platform
                    pledging wholehearted support to the Administration for a vigorous prosecution of the war. A few
                    Democrats supported the Union movement, but most of them preferred to sustain their own party, which
                    professed support of the Government and the war but opposed the war policy of the Administration.
                    The campaign was conducted almost entirely upon national issues. The result was a decisive defeat
                    for the Union Party. The Republican vote fell off both numerically and relatively from that of 1860,
                    with the result that a Republican majority of 10,000 was replaced by a Democratic majority of
                    approximately the same size. Not only was a strongly Democratic Legislature chosen, but the number
                    of Democratic Representatives in Congress was increased from four to seven out of a total of eleven,
                    while the majorities of such popular Republicans as Colfax and Julian were very sharply reduced.116 Many wavering and independent Republicans had gone over to the Democratic
                    standard and a much larger number had abstained from voting. Abraham Lincoln had received the
                    equivalent of a vote of want of confidence from the people of the state of his boyhood home.
            Explanations of the causes of the defeat were profuse from both sides. The Democrats placed the chief
                    emphasis upon the Emancipation Proclamation and the general anti-slavery policy of the
                    Administration, which they contended had perverted the war from a defense of the Union into an
                    unconstitutional struggle for the Negro; this course drove thousands of conservative Republicans117 into the opposition and kept thousands of war Democrats from, supporting the
                    Union Party. Many people were led to believe that "Radicalism" was preventing the
                    restoration of peace—that the southerners would never return to the Union as long as the
                    Government was dominated by "Abolitionists."118 Although some
                    Republicans denied emphatically that Lincoln's emancipation 
                  
                     116
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1861, pp. 6–3,
                            and for 1863, pp. 6–9, contains election returns by counties for Secretary of
                            State and Congressmen. The decrease of Republican votes was general throughout the State and
                            as marked in the northern as in the southern part. The defeated Republican Congressmen were
                            in the third, tenth and eleventh districts.
                  
                     117
                            Dawson's Times and Union represented this group.
                  
                     118 Thomas Bowling, a friend of Congressman Daniel Voorhees, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , to John J. Critterden, Dec. 1, 1862.—Crittenden Mss., Library of
                            Congress; State Sentinel, Oct. 20; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Weekly Review, Oct. 26; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Argus, Nov. 6, 13. The explanations of the Arout
                            were especially good.
               
                     program was responsible for defeat,119
                    others admitted that its effects had not been satisfactory. After two years of observation and
                    reflection, Berry Sulgrove concluded that the elections "indicated unmistakably that the
                    public mind was not prepared for so radical a measure" as the Proclamation.120 According to the LaPorte Herald the 
                        Proclamation was misconstrued and the ignorant made to believe that by its operation the
                            North would be filled with lazy, worthless negroes, who would compete with them as
                            laborers…. Indeed the most extravagant lies were gotten up and circulated through
                            the country that hundreds of these worthless negroes were on their way
                                hither….121
                  
                    
            
            Many supporters of the Administration wanted to believe that the political defeat was due to the
                    greater number of Republicans than Democrats in the army—that if the soldiers had been
                    permitted to vote the results would have been more favorable.122 Other factors
                    contributing to the Republican defeat included dissatisfaction with arbitrary arrests and
                    imprisonments, the lack of harmony among the different elements of the Union Party, the threat of
                    the draft, the fear of increased taxation and higher prices, the corruption in regard to military
                    contracts, and opposition to the high protective tariff.123 But by far the most
                    important cause of this vote of want of confidence in the Lincoln Administration was the failure of
                    the army to accomplish decisive results in the field. In the spring of 1862, the people had
                    confidently expected that the rebellion would be practically suppressed by autumn; now they felt
                    that little had been accomplished. "The bad management of the administration has caused our
                    defeat," was the prevailnig opinion, "and if it only opens the
                    President's eyes, and causes him to go to work and put down the 
                  
                     119
                            
                                Noblesville
                             Republican paper, quoted by 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, Nov. 12, 1862.
                  
                     120
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 14, 1864.
                  
                     121 Sept. 26, 1863; also Feb. 3, 1863. Almost exactly the same
                            explanation was offered by 
                        
                                    Marshall County
                                 Republican (
                                Plymouth
                            ), Oct. 16, 1862. The 
                                Princeton
                            
                            Clarion (Oct. 26, 1862) placed the chief responsibility for defeat upon
                            the President's plan of compensated emancipation.
                  
                     122
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 16, 17, Nov. 17, 1862 (last date Includes official
                            explanation of chairman of Union Central Committee); 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, Oct. 17; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 16, 29. Jacob Early to Governor Morton, Aug. 30. Morton
                            Mss., Indiana State Library. On October 27, 1862, J. Schuler Colfax wrote to John Sherman
                            attributing his small majority and the defeat of his colleagues to the absence of the
                            soldier vote.—Sherman Mss.
                  
                     123
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Argus, Nov. 13; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, Oct. 25, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 27, George W. Julian, Cadiz, to Salmon P. Chase, Aug.
                            4.—Chase Mss.; James A. Woodburn, "Party Politics in Indiana During the
                            Civil War." Annual Report of the American Historical Association
                            for 1902, vol. I, pp. 23–47.
               
                     rebellion, our political defeat may be considered a national
                        triumph."124 The chief Republican organ explained: 
                        The terrible inefficiency with which the war has been conducted, has done more than all the
                            President's proclamations to dissatisfy and alienate the people from the
                            Administration. They see their blood spilled, their money wasted, and they see no result at
                            all commensurate with the fearful outlay. They naturally turn away from an Administration
                            that takes so much and gives so little.125
                  
                    
            
            Thus, midway in his Administration Abraham Lincoln had been weighed in the balance and found wanting
                    by the Republicans of Indiana. His popularity and his cause were approaching their lowest ebb. It
                    was not until the latter half of his Presidency that the popular tide began to run strongly and
                    permanently in his favor and established him high in the opinion of his fellow Americans.
            
               
                  124 The Republican paper of 
                            Noblesville
                         quoted by 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharot, Nov. 12, 1862. On October 23 the 
                     
                                Delaware
                             Free Press urged the Administration either to go to work in earnest and
                        conquer the South with "an army of 1,000,000 men under the command of Generals who are
                        not afraid of hurting the rebels," or to make peace with the enemy. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal said that Democratic Generals had been permitted to control the armies
                        too long and advised the President "to let a little honest, well-meaning brains manage
                        the war."—Oct. 17, Nov. 7, 1862.
               
                  125
                        Ibid., Oct. 7, 1862.
            
         
         
         
            Governor James A. Mount
            H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            
            Indiana has had many exciting and memorable campaigns, but there are few people now living who
                    remember any that were more exciting than that of 1896. Three years of unrest had followed the panic
                    of 1893, and the people were discouraged and depressed. The greatest interest centered in the
                    presidential contest, with McKinley and Bryan as the candidates, while the principal issue was
                    bimetalism vs. single gold standard, the Democrats standing for the former and the
                    Republicans for the latter.
            While the race for the governorship was considered of minor importance it also held the attention of
                    the electorate from the time the gubernatorial nominations were made until election day. The
                    Republican candidate was James A. Mount of 
                        Montgomery county
                    , one of the most successful farmers of Indiana, and the Democratic candidate was
                    Benjamin F. Shively of 
                        South Bend
                    , former member of the national House and later 
                        United States
                     senator. Both candidates were able speakers and each, one made an extensive speaking
                    campaign.
            Mr. Mount had been a speaker at farmers' institutes from the time they were started in
                    Indiana in 1899. He spoke at the first institute ever held in 
                        Elkhart county
                    , the writer hereof presiding. His institute work took him into every county in the
                    state and wherever he went he was a favorite speaker and made hosts of friends. In the course of
                    time he began to cherish gubernatorial aspirations. Louis Ludlow now a member of Congress, but
                    formerly a staff correspondent of 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers, credits Mrs. W. W. Stevens, of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, with being the first to suggest that Mr. Mount should run for governor. Both
                    Mr. and Mrs. Stevens were institute speakers and they and Mr. Mount were frequently together in that
                    work and became very warm friends. Whenever Mr. Mount was in southern Indiana he made it a point, if
                    possible, to spend a day at the Stevens home. It was during one of these visits that, according to
                    Ludlow, Mrs. Stevens asked Mr. Mount why he should not become a candidate. Whether she or somebody
                    else offered the suggestion, it did not take long for it to take effect, for he soon became an
                    active candidate and took advantage of his appearance at institutes to build up his fences. That he
                    was very desirous of gaining  the nomination soon became
                    apparent to his friends and acquaintances. More than two years before the convention the late Hon.
                    Charles B. Harris, himself an institute speaker and afterward Consul to Nagasaki, said to the
                    writer: "Mount wants to be governorquot;. Mrs. Stevens said, that if he failed to get the
                    office it would break his heart. She had been closely associated with him and had observed how fully
                    the desire had taken possession of him.
            At the end of a most strenuous campaign, he was triumphantly elected and his cup of happiness seemed
                    to be full. But his joy was of short duration. The office of Governor proved to be far different
                    from what he had imagined it would be. From the beginning he was beset by office seekers, as is
                    always the case when there is a change from one party to another. There was dissatisfaction over
                    some of his appointments and this greatly annoyed him. He tried to please the politicians in his
                    party and found it was an impossible thing to do. He wished to do the right thing but was not always
                    able to determine what was best. The late Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith and the writer discussed his
                    administration a year or so before its expiration. She attributed his mistakes to his having had bad
                    advisers, and no doubt she was correct. As a result he was sometimes led to view things from the
                    standpoint of expediency. Had he followed the example of his immediate predecessor, Claude Matthews,
                    and disregarded the politicians, he would have fared better than he did. Matthews alienated many of
                    the politicians of his party, but he won the esteem of the best citizens of all parties.
            Long before his term of office expired Governor Mount wished for its end to come. He was looking
                    forward anxiously toward the day when he could return to his Willowdale farm in 
                        Montgomery county
                    . The desire of his heart was to exchange the irksome routine of his office and the
                    annoyance of self-seeking politicians for the peace and quiet of country life. He felt that the
                    companionship of his old neighbors would mean a great deal to him after an absence of four years. He
                    was a lover of fine stock and nothing would have given him greater pleasure than to be again among
                    the animals of his choice. But his wishes were not to be realized. Two days after he left the
                    governor's office he was dead. The stress and strain of office holding had  worn him out. His mistakes and failures were immediately forgotten.
                    Tributes, hearty and sincere were paid to his splendid character and his high standing as a citizen.
            Governor Mount was one of a family of twelve children. His parents, Atwell and Lucinda (Fullenwider)
                    Mount came from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana in 1828. They built a log cabin in the unbroken forest and began clearing up
                    a farm, living the life of pioneers. Here the future governor spent his boyhood, helping to clear
                    the land and doing his share of the rergular farm work. His schooling was confined to the winter
                    months and only a short term each winter when no work could be done on the farm. He was a bright,
                    industrious student and made the best of his meager opportunities. In 1862, at the age of nineteen,
                    he enlisted in the Seventy-Second Volunteers. He was a member of Wilder's Brigade and his
                    bravery won high praise from his commander.
            After he returned from the war he entered the Presbyterian Academy at 
                        Lebanon
                     where he did two years work in one. Having exhausted his funds he had to leave school
                    at the end of the year. Soon after this he married Miss Kate Boyd, a city girl, who had just
                    graduated from the same institution. They had no money. They leased a farm which was stocked and
                    supplied with implements and together they went to work with a determination to surmount the
                    obstacles that lay before them. Mr. Mount once told at a farmer's institute that his
                    mother-in-law was so opposed to her daughter marrying him that she refused to witness the ceremony.
                    Some of the young wife's city friends ridiculed her for marrying a poor young farmer and
                    told her that she would be riding to town in a lumber wagon, sitting on a big pumpkin. They learned
                    in the course of time that life on a farm was no bar to respectability. If any of them lived to see
                    her the first lady of Indiana they probably did not care to be reminded of what they said to her for
                    marrying a farmer.
            During the early years, the Mounts had what the old time farmers called "hard sleddingquot;.
                    In the course of time they took over Mr. Mount's father's farm. By hard work,
                    careful planning and rigid economy they were able to buy, one after another, the shares of his
                    brothers and sisters. It was his habit during the summer season to arise at four o'clock in
                    the morning and it was not an uncommon thing for him, when work was pressing, to work until ten or
                    eleven  o'clock at night. He was not a large man but he
                    was wiry and solidly built and could do as much work in a day as men much larger than simself. He
                    worked intelligently and was able to accomplish his ends with less effort than many others could. He
                    once told the writer, when we were at a farmer's institute together, that he could crib a
                    hundred bushels of corn in a day. He employed considerable help on his farm but none of his hired
                    men ever did more work than he. There was no work on the farm however hard or disagreeable that he
                    could not or would not do. When his fields needed tile draining he dug ditches and laid the tile
                    himself.
            After he had paid for his farm he kept adding to it from time to time until he had five hundred acres
                    of the best land in 
                        Montgomery county
                     and several years before he was elected governor he built a palatial residence which
                    cost him $8,000. It was, without doubt, one of the finest country homes in the state of
                    Indiana.
            One of the factors in his exceptional success as a farmer was his ability to dispose of the products
                    of his farm to the best advantage. He watched the trend of the markets very closely and always had
                    something to sell when it would bring the best price. He sold no grain other than wheat. Like most
                    of the successful farmers he marketed his grain on the hoof and in the fleece. He realized that
                    there is more profit in selling finished products while at the same time this practice increases the
                    fertility of the farm, thus making possible the growing of greater crops. He was able to see ahead
                    what the market prices were likely to be and governed himself accordingly. In a letter to the writer
                    in the summer of 1894, when hogs had been selling at a low price for more than a year, he said that
                    he expected the hog market to take an upward trend and he planned to have at least two hundred pigs
                    farrowed that fall. When those pigs were ready for the market the price of hogs had made a great
                    advance over what it was when the letter was written and he realized a handsome profit as a result
                    of his foresight.
            One of the commendable traits of Mr. Mount was his interest in young farmers. In his addresses at
                    farmers' institutes he made it a point to encourage them in every way that he could. He
                    frequently referred to his early experiences and to the efforts that he was required to put forth to
                    overcome the obstacles that often beset him. Between sessions 
                    he was frequently questioned by the young men who were in attendance and he never failed to give
                    them wise counsel. There are many farmers all over the state who owe him a debt of gratitude for the
                    advice and encouragement he gave them in their early years.
            Mr. Mount served a term in the state senate and made a creditable record in that body. In 1890 he was
                    nominated for Congress and made a vigorous campaign, but that was a Democratic year and he was
                    defeated. Besides campaigning in his district he made a number of speeches in other parts of the
                    state. He told an amusing story of an experience that he met with in 
                        Brown county
                     that fall. He had two engagements in the county which had not a single railroad. When
                    it was time for him to go from the first place to the other, the only conveyance he could find was a
                    vehicle which its owner called an ambulance and which was sometimes used as a hearse. His driver
                    must have been a Democrat, for he said to Mount on the way, "I am hauling you to your
                    political gravequot;. Mount replied that it was with the hope of a speedy resurrection. The
                    driver's words came true at the election that year and the resurrection came six years
                    later when Mount was elected governor.
            As an orator Mr. Mount did not rank with Voorhees, Hendricks or Beveridge, but he was nevertheless a
                    pleasing speaker. His voice had become somewhat impaired while he was in the army as the result of
                    exposure while recuperating from an attack of measles. He was a ready talker and could speak on any
                    subject connected with farming. Whenever interest began to lag he would be called on to rouse up the
                    audience which he had the happy faculty of doing. In the early days of his institute work, he was
                    free to express himself on almost any subject. After he began to cherish gubernatorial aspirations,
                    however, a decided change came over him. He became exceedingly cautious about answering
                    controversial questions lest he should offend the adherents of one side or the other. In fact he was
                    almost as evasive as Martin Van Buren, who had the reputation of being the greatest straddler among
                    American statesmen.
            While the Administration of Gov. Mount was not outstanding as there was no crisis to meet during that
                    period, it was creditable. He sought to discharge the duties of his office faithfully and
                    conscientiously. The mistakes he  made, as the result of
                    following bad advice, were not such as to bring discredit upon the state, but merely caused
                    annoyance to himself. His career as a whole was an honorable one and his name deserves to be held in
                    remembrance by the people whose welfare he always had at heart.
         
         
         
            A NATURALIST'S PILGRIMAGE TO NEW HARMONY
            WILLIAM P. ALEXANDER
            
            To a naturalist, the place where Thomas Say—"Father of American
                    Zoology"—lived for eight years of his short life, where he did much of his best
                    work, died and is buried, takes the aspect of a shrine to which pilgrimage sooner or later must be
                    made. That place is 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and keeping a promise made to myself long ago, I journeyed thither in the
                    late summer of 1936 to acknowledge my debt to a great pioneer naturalist, a man who blazed the way
                    that I and many of my kind have joyfully followed.
            What manner of town 
                        New Harmony
                     is, I had but the haziest notion and my three-day stay within its charming environs
                    proved a delightful surprise for much of the place is today as it was more than a century ago when
                    Thomas Say, together with a brilliant company of men and women, walked its quaint and peaceful
                    streets.
            New Harmonie was founded by George Rapp in 1814. Hailing originally from Würtemberg, 
                        Germany
                    , Rapp, heading a group of sectarians, migrated to 
                  Butler County, Pennsylvania
               ,
                    and there in Harmonie, according to the dictates of a peculiar belief set up a thriving community.
            The singularities of the Rappite religion and philosophy need not concern us, but the fact that these
                    fearless Germans were gifted with heroic capacity for creative work and possessed admirable talents
                    for constructive progress-iveness does have a direct bearing on what I shall attempt to narrate.
            Becoming dissatisfied with their 
                        Pennsylvania
                     environment the Rappites decided to move elsewhere. In 1814 George Rapp discovered the
                    rich lands on the banks of the Wabash River and concluded, that, wilderness
                    though it was, the beautiful tract in what is now 
                        Posey County
                    , was the Promised Land that he and his followers needed for the ultimate success of
                    their communal pursuits. Accordingly, he acquired some thirty thousand acres and in 1815 the whole
                    colony left the Keystone State, migrated to their new domain and forthwith began the building of a
                    new town which they named in memory of their old home in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            For ten epic years they toiled, clearing the land used for laying out their village, which they
                    threaded with streets  admirably planned and interesecting at
                    right angles. Here they erected dwellings and community houses of wood, handmade brick and stone,
                    factories, churches, hospital and fort. So well did they build, indeed, that most of the structures
                    they created remain today virtually unimpaired by usage and time. Then in 1824, a mighty spirit of
                    unrest, which seemed periodically to take hold of George Rapp, again became predominant, and he was
                    inspired to dispose of his Indiana property and return with his following to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            It happened that the Welsh philanthropist, Robert Owen, who had established his unique social colony
                    at New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , was contemplating an extension of his educational work at a time when the agent sent
                    out by George Rapp met him. The proposal to sell the New Harmonic estate entire, was made and Owen
                    at once lent a receptive ear.
            The associates of Robert Owen were not in sympathy with his philosophy of education and reform and
                    their interference hastened his resolve to carry on elsewhere and preferably in a region remote from
                    the place where his philanthropy had met obstruction and destructive criticism. So it came about
                    that Robert Owen purchased the Rappite-created New Harmonic and thirty thousand acres of land for
                    $150,000.00.
            In an energetic way, soon after the Rappites had left, Owen set for himself the task of peopling his
                    newly acquired possession which he rechristened 
                  
                            New Harmony
                        . With the gifts of genius that characterized him, he quickly drew to the
                    picturesque estate on the 
                        Wabash
                     some eight hundred individuals of varied talents and disposition. With many thinking
                    folk, there came men with mental quirks and strange notions.
            Among others, he interested William Maclure, who besides ranking as a pioneer geologist of great
                    ability, was an original thinker and a man of outstanding influence in his time. Maclure was not
                    only associated with Owen in the business of purchasing 
                        New Harmony
                    , but, in the educational direction, he was a magnetic figure who influenced a host of
                    brilliant people to try their fortunes in the novel social experiment about to be launched.
            Thus it occurred that on a boat fitted out for the express purpose of transporting the company, there
                    arrived in 
                    
                        New Harmony
                     on January 26, 1826, a group of people, that, because of high attainments in the arts
                    and sciences, has come to be known as the Boat Load of Knowledge. The boat was known as the Philanthropist. Among the future stars of the community were: Robert Owen, Robert
                    Dale Owen, William Maclure, Thomas Say, Gerald Troost, Charles Alexander Lesueur, Mme. Marie D.
                    Fretageot, Cornelius Tiebout and others of noted name and accomplishments. Joseph Neef, a disciple
                    of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, joined the group but did not come on the Philanthropist. The educational experiment out Of which grew the first
                        Kindergarten, first free school, first Co-educational School, and first
                        Industrial School in the 
                        United States
                     had fairly begun.1
            
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     today has a population of about twelve hundred. I arrived in the town on my pilgrimage
                    early on a bright September morning. The spell of the quiet loveliness of the place immediately took
                    hold of me. Quaintness, that harks back to Rappite times, plucks at you at every turn and the famous
                    Gate Trees (Koelreuteria paniculata) make the serene streets extremely alluring
                    when they hang heavy with fruit, as thy did at the time of my visit. I knew at once that my visit
                    was going to be a stimulating mental and spiritual experience.
            Hoping to be housed in an old Rappite dwelling, I was fortunate in having my wish granted by finding
                    rooms in the home of the Robb family on Church street, directly opposite the Tavern which is the
                    ancient Community House No. 3 of the Rappite period. Furthermore, Mr. Winfield W. Robb proved to be
                    a genial gentleman, who, like most of the older residents of the town, was thoroughly versed in the
                    historical aspects of 
                        New Harmony
                     and not adverse to imparting freely from his seemingly inexhaustible fund of
                    information. Without further delay, it should be stated that nowhere can one hope to meet more
                    hospitable and charming people than here, where refinement and open-hearted geniality seem to be the
                    spontaneous gift of an entire community.
            Established, I set out immediately to visit the office of a typical citizen, a man of no
                    inconsiderable reputation. I walked into the printing establishment of the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Times to meet Clarence P. Wolfe, the editor and publisher. 
                  
                     1 The history of this remarkable town on the 
                                Wabash
                             has been told in fine fashion by Georsre B. Lockwond in his absorbingly
                            interesting book. The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905.)
               
                     To miss the Times would be an utter calamity.
                    It carries news items in an inimitable Hoosier way, such as this comment on the excessive aridness
                    of 1936: "It was so dry they wouldn't let a person open a water blister, as it
                    seemed so wasteful."
            To miss the editor of the Times would also be a mishap, for he immediately insisted
                    upon taking me on a personally conducted tour through the historic parts of the town. His
                    philosophical and sympathetic comment, as we walked, he talked and I listened, revealed the profound
                    interest he has in these tokens of the town's past greatness. He voiced a keen hope that a
                    revival of the spirit that made 
                        New Harmony
                     illustrious might again enkindle. Indeed with men like Editor Wolfe, and other fine
                    souls met there, pointing out the advantages of the historic town as a desirable site for a
                    university, one is led to hope that such a turn will one day come to pass. The settlement of William
                    Maclure, Robert Owen and Thomas Say would indeed make noble ground for the rise of a college or
                    university.
            We walked to the home built on the site of the old mansion built by George Rapp about 1821. The
                    original building was burned in 1844, but in the days of the Owen Community it was inhabited by
                    William Maclure and Thomas Say. The present imposing building faces on Main Street and in the
                    spacious tree-planted grounds to the north may be found the grave of the famous Say. There, in a sod
                    covered valut above which rises a simple marble monument, reposes the dust of one of the very great
                    American scientists of an earlier day. On the north face of the stone these telling lines, half
                    obliterated, were recited by Mr. Wolfe: 
                        Votary of Nature even from a child, He sought her presence in the trackless wild; To him the
                            shell, the insect, and the flower, Were bright and cherished emblems of her power. In her he
                            saw a spirit all divine, And worshipped like a pilgrim at her shrine.
                     A truly beautiful tribute to a truly great soul.
            On the east face of the monument there was this inscription: 
                        Thomas Say, The Naturalist, Born in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , July 27, 1787, Died at 
                                New Harmony
                            , October 10, 1834.
                    
            
            Of French extraction Thomas Say was, nevertheless, all  American.
                    In his forty-seven years on earth he produced a mass of fundamental literature that rightly entiltes
                    him to the honor of being called the "Father of American Zoology." With
                    indefatigable effort, in spite of much trouble with poor health, he described more than 1575 species
                    of insects beside the notable work he did in Conchology, Paleontology, Ethnology, and to a lesser
                    degree in other branches of Natural History—a vast work for one man to accomplish.
            In the Library of the Workingmen's Institute, founded in 1838 by William Maclure in 
                        New Harmony
                    , I saw among its treasure of twenty-six thousand volumes, some of the precious works of
                    Say, such as his American Conchology with its handsome colored plates, which was
                    printed and published in the famous town.
            Continuing my walk with 
                        New Harmony
                    's editor, we visited in succession the old Rappite Community House No. 2, with
                    the noted sun-dial. Back of this stands the gigantic Hackberry tree that must have been a sizable
                    tree in Rapp's day, the ancient fort, the strange markerless Rappite cemetery and the
                    castle-like laboratory of David Dale Owen, the first Geologist of the 
                        United States
                    . Our long and pleasant perambulation ended at the library where our guide turned us
                    over to Miss Louise M. Husband, one of the librarians, whose personal charm and stimulating
                    reminiscences of the 
                        New Harmony
                     picture I shall always remember with keen pleasure.
            The Library is a treasure house of inestimable value containing as it does in its archives a wealth
                    of documentary records having to do with the extraordinary social experiments of the town and the
                    men who figured in them In addition the library building contains a notable art collection and a
                    museum of natural history.
            Under Miss Husband's guidance I was treated to a bewildering feast. Residents of Buffalo2 will be interested to learn that Charles Alexander Lesueur, a celebrated
                    Zoologist and artist of 
                        New Harmony
                    , left among other pictures one of Niagara Falls, and mention of
                    Niagara, serves to recall the fact that Thomas Say collected insects there as well as in adjacent
                    parts of 
                        Canada
                    .
            I left the library and Miss Husband to visit what proved to be the rarest of the old Rappite
                    dwellings in historic 
                  
                     2 The writer is a resident of 
                        Buffalo, New
                        York
                     
                  
               
                     interest, and spent a memorable afternoon with a brilliant
                    woman, the hostess of the Old Fauntleroy Home, Miss Mary Emily Fountleroy. The fine old house was
                    erected by the Rappites in 1815. It is beautifully preserved and faces a wooded yard of considerable
                    size. It is marked by a dignity and repose that smacks of culture and chivalrous times. The names of
                    those who have dwelt in this venerable building make a register to which the citizens of 
                        New Harmony
                     point with justifiable pride. Here lived Thomas Say, the Naturalist; Lucy Way Sistaire,
                    the artist; Louise Neef, the Pestalozzian teacher; Oliver Evans, the inventor; Robert Fauntleroy,
                    astronomer; George Davidson, scientist; David Dale Owen, Geologist; Robert Dale Owen, author and
                    statesman; and Cornelius Tiebout, artist. In this house, it should be added, Grace Golden, the prima donna, was born. In this house under Constance Owen Fauntleroy, the
                    "Minerva," first Woan's Club in the 
                        United States
                    
                    with a written constitution, was formed in 1859. The Constitution is still proudly
                    displayed. Due to the "Minerva", the Old Fauntleroy House has been purchased by
                    the Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs and will now be preserved in all its exquisite
                    beauty. The home is furnished throughout with pieces of rare workmanship and beauty and the visitor
                    leaves with an impression of profound admiration for all that he has been privileged to see and
                    hear.
            The spirit of the home, however, has centered in the person of Mary Emily Fauntleroy whose
                    conversation and bearing are perfectly attuned to the shrine over which she holds such charming
                    sway. The spirit of cultured 
                        New Harmony
                     in which the lofty figures of the past moved, is magically revived in the recital of
                    its events by Miss Fauntleroy, who loves the story well.
            I returned repeatedly to the Rapp Community House No. 2. In fact I dined there regularly during my
                    stay. In the spacious dining room, which is much as it was in the days of Robert Owen, there is a
                    gigantic fire-place. It was not difficult to vision Thomas Say, William Maclure, Maximilian, Prince
                    of Wied, and others, residents and visitors, seated before the great blazing log fire far into the
                    night discussing matters of scientific and educational interest. The top floor of the sturdy old
                    building, indeed, was the Pestalozzian School over which Joseph Neef presided. Constantine  Raffinesque, John J. Audubon, Joseph Leidy, Leo Lesquereux,
                    George Engleman and Henry R. Schoolcraft, to mention some notables, were all visitors to 
                        New Harmony
                     at one time or another. In all likelihood, each in his day sat before the grand old
                    fire place which was built in 1822.
            A sketch of 
                        New Harmony
                     without mention of a noble woman who enriched its early history would be sadly
                    incomplete. That talented woman was Mme. Marie Louise Fretagot who did heroic service in the
                    community when she bravely undertook the responsibility of managing important affairs for William
                    Maclure, who headed the 
                        New Harmony
                     movement after Robert Owen's withdrawal and who was himself frequently away
                    from the colony for long periods of time. It was a difficult task as has been shown by the
                    historians of 
                        New Harmony
                    , but Mme. Fretageot met all obstacles with a characteristic fortitude, and the work at 
                        New Harmony
                     went on. She had a deep seated affection for Thomas Say and his wife Lucy, and at one
                    time she cared for both of them with the concern of a mother when sickness had smitten them
                    simultaneously. Difficulties, and many there were in those days, seemed not to daunt the spirit of
                    Mme. Fretageot.3
            
            My pilgrimage to "The Town of the Fearless" was replete with interest at every
                    turn, and I write this account of it with the hope that it may inspire others to make a like
                    unforgettable journey thither.
            Today's citizens of 
                        New Harmony
                     live alertly proud of the historic figures that have dwelt within the confines of their
                    lovely old town and glory in the events that have there transpired. They greatly desire to draw to
                    their gates people whom they rightly believe will profit by coming.
            With this idea uppermost, the first Festival of the Golden Rain Tree was held on June 17, 1936. At
                    that time in each year the magnificent koelreuteria paniculata puts on a floral
                    show that is said to be unique, for its falling blossoms then cover the streets with a veritable
                    "cloth of goldquot;. The Festival is to become an annual event and it is probable that it
                    will in time bring hosts or visitors from far and near—visitors who 
                  
                     3 Mrs. Nora C. Fretageot was out of town during the writer's
                            visit to 
                                New Harmony
                            , which was a great disappointment to him. for he would have enjoyed hearing
                            from her the story of her husband's illustrious ancestress. Mrs. Fretageot was a
                            wonderful woman, who did much to help anyone interested in the early history of 
                                New Harmony
                            . She died a few months after the writer's visit.
               
                     will revel in the spectacle offered by the trees and remain to
                    find that they have come to a place that abounds in landmarks and historic lore which make it an
                    appealing shrine. Students should visit this shrine, and, to those who may set forth on journeys to 
                        New Harmony
                    , I wish happy pilgrimages.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            The historical pilgrimmage of 1937 was under the management of the Indiana Historical Society, which
                    alternates with the Society of Indiana Pioneers, each society inviting members of the other to join
                    with it. The pilgrimage this year took the form of the long-contemplated boat trip upon the
                        Ohio River. The Gordon C. Greene, of the 
                        Greene
                     Line Steamers, was chartered and occupied by the party from dinner Friday evening,
                    October 8, through breakfast Sunday morning, October 10. A special bus took part of the pilgrims
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the foot of Main Street, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where they were joined by others who arrived by other public conveyance, or in private
                    automobiles. The trip consisted of a cruise down the river to 
                        Madison
                     where a stop of an hour was made, thence beyond 
                        Hanover
                     and return to 
                        Cincinnati
                     with a short stop at 
                        Vevay
                    —a total distance of something over two hundred miles on the winding
                        Ohio River.
            The Committee upon Early Mills in Indiana is one of the most active in the Society. Mr. Denzil
                    Doggett, the chairman, has added materially to the collection of information and pictures in the
                    Smith Memorial Library of the Society, and Richard C. Smith, of the Library, has tabulated and filed
                    a considerable amount of additional information which has come in through correspondence and
                    personal visits. In the very near future, the Society hopes to put on an exhibition of pictures in
                    the exhibition room of the State Library and Historical Building. The compilation and publishing of
                    a volume upon early mills is one of the goals of the Society, but the publication will not be
                    attempted for some time, that is, not until information is made as complete as can reasonably be
                    expected. An account of a number of early mills in Indiana would have a certain romantic interest
                    and would contribute to the social history of the state. An exhaustive study of early mills will
                    have the additional value of an important chapter in the economic and industrial development of the
                    state.
            The nineteenth annual Indiana History Conference will be held at the Claypool Hotel, December
                    1–1. This Conference as usual will bring together the Indiana Historical Society, the
                    Society of Indiana Pioneers, the History Teachers  Association,
                    and other state and local organizations indulging in historical work and pastime. The
                    "Proceedings" will be published by the Historical Bureau as the February or March
                    number of its Indiana History Bulletin.
            
            The year 1937 has the peculiar interest of being the ses-quicentennial both of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Constitutional Convention of the 
                        United States
                    —or rather of twelve of them, as 
                        Rhode Island
                     was not represented—and of the Ordinance of 1787. Both of these historic
                    events will be dealt with in the Conference. The year has been unusually fruitful also in the work
                    of a number of county historical societies. Numerous committees of the Indiana Historical Society
                    will also have reports to present.
            Out-of-state speakers announced on the program will be Professor James G. Randall, of the University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    , who will speak upon "The Historian as Revisionist," and Dr. Luther
                    H. Evans, National Director of the Historical Records Survey, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., who will speak upon the work of this important Works Progress Administration
                    project. Further announcement relative to the Conference will be made in the Indiana
                        History Bulletin for November. Printed copies of the program can be obtained after
                    Thanksgiving at the Historical Bureau, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            THINKING INDEPENDENTLY
            There is a common, though not necessarily expressed, belief that successful persons are those who
                    readily take on the color of the community and who just as readily join the militant defenders of
                    the status quo. Any man or woman of intelligence and experience can easily
                    understand the sources of the ideas of such supposedly successful persons after hearing them
                    converse for a few minutes. To the uninitiated, these fluent purveyors of current notions and
                    representatives of prevailing attitudes seem alert, clever and effective citizens. The truth is that
                    they are superficial or will rapidly become so. They do not have deep or abiding interests. They do
                    not think much. They are easy victims of propagandists. Nevertheless, college graduates constantly
                    join their ranks, among whom there are all too many teachers of history.
            Young men and women who have specialized in history as undergraduate and graduate students,
                    preparatory to teaching careers, should find their training especially helpful as they are
                    constantly confronted with the necessity of judging propaganda. They should know how to check and
                    weigh what they hear and read. They should, while taking their training, have caught the spirit of
                    those who form their opinions on the basis of the evidence, and they should have acquired
                    considerable ability to find the facts even when reading the columns of prejudiced journalists or
                    news gatherers. Otherwise as teachers of history, they are bound to become, to a greater or lesser
                    degree, blind leaders of the blind.
            The teacher trained for history work should have a correct knowledge of the matter to be presented,
                    but should have also the desire and the ability to learn more from day to day and to learn by sanely
                    critical methods. The teacher who gives up study as soon as the degree has been obtained proves
                    thereby the lack of the principal thing that should have been acquired. Even the teacher who
                    continues to read, but does not exercise the critical faculty deserves little praise.
            Everywhere there are people who have supposedly been well educated that gradually become uneducated.
                    The explanation is that they do not read enough; that they do not judge critically what they read
                    and hear; and that they accept without question the views of others. This is one of the common  tragedies in the lives of those who enter the teaching
                    profession. The same thing is true of approximately an equal proportion of those who enter other
                    professions and trades, except where the regular activities necessarily require constant study and
                    experimentation. The very nature of some professions, such as banking, the law, and teaching, tends
                    to dull and mechanize the minds of those who enter them. That is why it is generally possible to
                    predict what so many persons with experience and education will say relative to any departure from
                    established practice before they speak. Constant study, an open mind, and a tolerant spirit are the
                    necessary bases of growth.
         
         
         
            Centennial Ode
            
                    To DePauw University
                    *
                
            MAX EHRMANN
            
            Your Alma Mater speaks, my children everywhere, Whose steps have wandered round the girdle of the
                    earth. In thought return to me and hear, while I lay bare My heart, that we may have a glorious
                        rebirth.1
            
            Can it be true a hundred years have slipped away Since first I nursed to thought your forebearers in
                    this place! I marvel much how many loved me in their day, I sent them forth so ill-prepared to run
                    the race.
            Had I the tears, now could I weep when I recall How sometimes new-discovered truth filled me with
                    fright; The while my Children, drinking falsehood's bitter gall, Trudged, footsore, over
                    trackless wastes in moonless night.
            I failed in many things; but in the task supreme I did not fail. Than this, what greater gift to
                    make: Into receptive minds I placed a lovely dream, To guide their steps until their bonds with life
                    shall break—
            A lovely dream to make of earth a paradise! The times are new, the problems new. Let us bring light.
                    Through love and learning make a worthy sacrifice For men and women wandering in their hopeless
                    night.
            What is this thing called learning if it lead nowhere But to the shrill harangues of parlor
                    dissonance? Wake up, far-scattered Sons and Daughters, do your share To turn the sordid scenes of
                    life into romance!
            Think you these sturdy pioneers who gave me birth Were bablers in a super-heated drawing-room? In
                    high sincerity they trod the sunlit earth. Shall we today sit listless in a cloistered gloom?
            
               
                  * This Centennial Ode, by Max Ehrmann, was read on Alumni Day
                        (1987) at DePauw by Prof. Dewey Annakin of Indiana State Teachers College. Mr. Ehrmann, a well
                        known poet of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , was commissioned in 1986 to write the Ode for DePauw's centennial
                        celebration. The appeal is general in relation to the contacts of college teachers and students
                        of all institutions—hence the appropriateness of publishing it in the Indiana Magazine of History.—EDITOR
               
                  1 Throughout the poem DePauw University (Alma Mater) is
                        represented as speaking to all her students of a century.
            
            
            A hundred years of love and labor made this place; Though sometimes dim, the quest of truth is on
                    each page. With courage, like unto our forebears, we will face The front, pursue the truth, whatever
                    stormwinds rage.
            Upon their mediaeval learning we have frowned. But earnestness they had and noble rage to right The
                    wrong. Today amid the "rackets" that abound Let us arouse ourselves to measure to
                    their height!
            All laggards fail me who in smug indifference Look listless at the godless forces in the land: Man
                    grinding down his brother man, with loud pretense, "Ye have the poor always," as
                    if by God's command.
            As spirits weep, so have I wept when some had gone From here: smooth speaking, nimble-fingered foes
                    of man. But lofty pride is mine when others carry on, That all have peace and plenty in their
                    earthly span.
            In glad remembrance, through these hundred years, are they Who planned and toiled, had fortitude to
                    risk and dare In fiercely fought commercial strife, so that one day They might bring oil to keep
                    aflame the torch I bear.
            The artistry that makes the earth so fair a sight, The moon with borrowed gold, and many a caravan Of
                    suns meandering along the lanes of night— All murmur mystical assurances for man.
            A just apportionment of toil's reward should bring To man the gift of leisure and the tender
                    dream, The upward look that inward prompts the stars to sing The wonder of this cosmic
                    thought-pervading scheme.
            To subtle, syllogistic quibbles give no head— The thisness and the thatness of
                    salvation's plan. But write across your consciousness the sacred creed: Man's love
                    of God is measured by his love of man.
            How wonderful is man, how mystic human lives, Exalted dust that knows the thrill of consciousness! Of
                    all our thoughts and deeds perhaps but that survives Which lifts mankind above its inborn
                    selfishness.
            
            Of metaphysic certitude make no pretense; But, silent and in awe, gaze on the cosmic sight, Ennobled
                    by humility and reverence, As science pushes back the curtains of the night.
            When you, in bitter spirit, stamp across the stage Of that inner theater where so many parts you
                    played, May there be faith (to soften down your childish rage) That He who wrote the manuscript
                    knows well His trade.
            With sorrow we behold relentless years efface Things loved. New arts and dialectics here will reign.
                    Should you return sometime, you would not know the place. All will be changed, all will be gone; but
                    I remain.
            Not even I remain, and grass and trees will grow Where buildings stood, my name posterity will ban,
                    If you, my Sons and Daughters, fail to see and know Which is the vanguard, which the rear, in the
                    march of man.
            O shame that life is held to have so little worth! Affrighted millions gasp beneath war's
                    bloody heel. Four wars your fathers fought to make a nobler earth. Fight now for understanding ere
                    you fight with steel!
            I am the spirit-mother of this lovely place. With soundless words unceasingly I speak to you; And you
                    will hear my voice when all the world seems base (The voice within), take courage, carry on anew.
            From heights I showed you how the human landscape lay. With care I nursed you through the pangs of
                    mental birth. Go forth, put heart into the heartless game men play; Go forth to justify us both to
                    all the earth!
            Other unnumbered centuries will come and go In man's adventure on this restless grain of
                    dust. Why all this learning, if we do not strive to know The Road, the Inn at Night, the Keeper that
                    we trust?
            To all my own who love this place, here learned to brood On life, and here lit passionate fires for
                    noble deed To elevate the churlish world to happier mood— To all my own dispersed through
                    all the earth, Godspeed!2
            
            
               
                  2 The copy here reprinted appeared in the 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune and Star of June 20 (Sunday), 1937.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            FOURTEENTH INDIANA REGIMENT PENINSULAR CAMPAIGN TO CHANCELLORSVILLE
            
            LETTERS TO THE VINCENNES WESTERN SUN
            In the Indiana, Magazine of History for December, 1933, there appeared a series of
                    letters, from Cheat Mountain and points near by, that were written by a soldier
                    of Company G, Fourteenth Indiana Regiment, who used the signature "Prock." The
                    letters were printed in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun (weekly) as received. In the Magazine for September,
                    1934, a second installment of letter to the Sun from "Prock"
                    were published. These related to the part played by the Fourteenth Indiana in the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    . In the last published letter, written on June 9, 1862, the Fourteenth had left
                            
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               , for Harrison's Landing on the James
                    River. The letters in the following list succeed the last one previously published and
                    continue until "Prock" was wounded at Chancellorsville. After a period of five
                    months, "Prock" entered the service again, and wrote additional letters from the
                    front to the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun. In some future issue, the remaining letters will appear. Company G. of the
                    Fourteenth Indiana was known as the "Invincibles." The real name of the author of
                    the "Prock" letters was William Landon who became a Lieutenant of Company G early
                    in the War. In a letter of May 21, 1864, he asked that letters sent to him be addressed to
                    "Lieut. Will Landon," so he was probably known as "Will" by his
                    friends and comrades.
            PROCK'S LETTERS FROM THE EASTERN FRONT (July, 1862, to May, 1863)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Four Miles North of Harrison's Landing,
                              
                                 James River, Advance of McClellan's Army,
                           
                                    Wednesday [Tuesday] July 8th, 1862.1
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                    1
                                
                        After a delightful sail down the Potomac, we entered Chesapeake Bay about 9 P. M.,
                                    the "long roll" of which was quite different from 
                              
                                 1
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                             Western Sun, July 19, 1862. This letter is
                                            dated July 8th. but, If written on Wednesday as indicated, the date should
                                            be July 9. It was probably written on Tuesday. The first portion of this
                                            letter dealing with matters before the troops left 
                                                Alexandria
                                            , was published in the Indiana Magazine of
                                            History (September, 1934), XXX, 29–98.
                           
                                     any thing in the shape of rolls the Fourteenth
                                    has been treated to. A supply of soda water, secured by your correspondent,
                                    prevented any ill effects arising from this great swell of the mighty waters.
                                    ‘Twas near daylight when we came to anchor off Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                    , amongst a fleet of vessels and forest of masts, from which the flags
                                    of several nations were flying. The low, dark painted gun-boats and steam
                                    sloops-of-war were numerous. The huge, barbette guns of the mighty Fortress looked
                                    threateningly down on one side, while from the Rip Raps opposite an equal number of
                                    bull-dogs were visible.
                        In less than an hour after sun rise one half of the Fourteenth were splashing about
                                    in the salt water, swimming from transport to transport, apparently determined to
                                    make the most of it, and enjoy their voyage as much as possible.
                        There was an abundance of provisions on board, but the only accommodations for
                                    cooking (that is for building fires) were an old skillet and an army forge, over
                                    which the hungry ones were constantly frying pork or boiling coffee.
                        Weighed anchor at noon, steamed down the bay and up the James
                                    river 90 miles to Harrison's Bar, where McClellan's
                                    supply fleet is at present anchored. Remained all night on board the 
                                        Columbia
                                    , and until Wednesday evening at 4 o'clock, when we landed with
                                    haversacks full of rations, oil-cloth blankets, and each man fifty rounds of
                                    cartridges, and were forthwith double-quicked out about four miles through mud and
                                    rain to the advance for picket duty—the right wing of the 14th taking one
                                    road and the left wing under command of Lieut. Col. Owens another.
                        At daylight the rebels opened on us with shell, and advancing in force compelled us
                                    to fall back a mile until reinforced by the balance of our (first) brigade, when we
                                    drove the rebels back with slight loss, and now occupy their position in the
                                    timber—have thrown up a breastwork. Our pickets are only 300 yards in
                                    advance, and the secesh not over that distance in front of them—in fair
                                    view. In fact, the boys talk to each other from their posts, and have agreed not to
                                    fire, which for the first day or two they were constantly doing.
                        We are called "fresh troops," which accounts for our being in the
                                    advance. Have held our position just one week today—have plenty of
                                    wholesome food and a ration of liquor, but our baggage is all behind, and we are all
                                    as dirty as pigs, and cannot find more than water enough for cooking purposes and
                                    quenching thirst—weather devilish hot.
                        This is rather an unhealthy place for sound men, but those unfit for duty suffer
                                    extremely.
                        Prof. Lowe's balloon is up almost constantly, and occasionally the gun-boats
                                    throw a few shells over us into the rebel camp.
                        No telling at what moment we may be called on to resist the foe—every man
                                    sits or lays with his gun close to hand, to be ready in an instant.
                        Yours, with eyes "skinned," ears pinned back, and
                                    "har" short.
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                        P. S.—Letters should be addressed "Harrison's
                                    Landing, James river, Smith's division, 
                                        Franklin
                                    's corps, Army of the Potomac, via  Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                    ." Thousands of letters are lost for want of proper direction.
                                    The brigade, name and number of regiment, and letter of company should always (if possible) be put on the envelope. P.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Harrison's Landing, James
            River, Va.,
                           
                                    Wednesday, July 9, 1862.2
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        Yesterday afternoon we moved out of the woods into an open field and to-day the boys
                                    "threw" [felled] the timber in our front, right, and left, so the
                                    artillery could have a sight at any advancing rebels. A hot, July sun is pouring
                                    down its scorching rays, and the 14th is literally roasting beneath their
                                    "leetle" flies—called tents.
                        Old Abe was around, so I was told, and from the amount of powder burned by some of
                                    the big guns, I presume ‘tis no "grape vine."
                        Drew a ration of "injuns." Soldiers are exceedingly fond of this
                                        fruit [onions]—taste and smell both too
                                    "oud" for Prock.
                        Stragglers left behind at 
                                        Alexandria
                                     are all up.
                        The rebels threw a few round shot into some of our transports as they passed the
                                    mouth of the Chickahominy, but presume our gun boats have demolished the battery by
                                    this time—heard very heavy firing in that direction.
                        The water we are compelled to use is of the most miserable quality. I have drank [sic] so many wiggle-tails and pollywogs that I can hear young
                                    frogs croaking all the time.
                        Our knapsacks remained at the landing till yesterday, and when finally brought to
                                    camp one-fourth of them were discovered to be missing—Prock's
                                    with the rest. My entire kit now consists of one suit of clothes, very much worn,
                                    covered with grease and dirt (and no water to wash ‘em in); my band box
                                    suit, with many small articles too numerous to mention, diary (the greatest loss of
                                    all) included, "gone up for ninety days." Hope the fellow that
                                    "won" ‘em is "marking time" in hell
                                    with a red-hot musket at a "right shoulder
                                    shift."
                        John Harvey, Co. G, left in the hospital at Strausburg last May,
                                    captured by Jackson's forces and released on parole, has been discharged.
                        I am glad to hear that the General and the Dr. have monopolized all
                                    the ferry privileges about 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , and are now negotiating for the ferry across the river Styx. Expect to
                                    be a "dead head," if they succeed in the latter. I also hear that
                                    the General is negotiating for the plank-road. Bully for him!
                        Hot as a mince-pie right out of the oven, I am, as ever, yours truly,
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  2
                        Western Sun, July 26, 1862.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Harrison's Landing, James
            River, Va.,
                           
                                    Friday, July 18, 1862.3
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:—
                        My friend Sergeant Lyons, of Company "E" Fourteenth regiment, just
                                    informed me that he will be on his way to Hoosierdom at early dawn to
                                    morrow—that any messages, packets, letters, &c., from Prock he
                                    would be happy to deliver at "Old Post." We first formed an
                                    acquaintance at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , over one year ago, whilst on guard together at Camp Kimball, and have
                                    been comrades and warm friends ever since. Sorry am I to part with the jovial, good
                                    natured, light hearted, whole souled Gibby. He leaves the service on account of
                                    ill-health. May he speedily recruit the same, and success always to my comrade of
                                    the Fourteenth!
                        We have been relieved of picket duty, and the regiment is now resting from the
                                    incessant labor of guard and "fatigue." The weather to-day is
                                    disagreeably cool. A heavy thunder storm not only most completely drowned us out,
                                    but almost entirely swamped the Fourteenth.
                        Captain Guido Ilges, of the 14th Regular Infantry, U.S.A., called on his
                                    acquaintances in this regiment the other day. With the exception of being somewhat
                                    thinner, he appeared to me the same immortal "G. I."
                        The explosion of a sixty-four-pounder at 9 P. M. is the signal for us to
                                    "douse the glim" (put out lights), and the same huge iron throat
                                    belches forth at 4 A. M. for the "Army of the Potomac" to
                                    "fall in for roll call." Do things up on a large scale here.
                                    Picket by divisions of infantry and regiments of cavalry.
                        Speaking of horsemen, the 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Lancers present a very fine appearance as, some twelve or fifteen
                                    hundred strong, they file past in close order, the red pennants of their long lances
                                    fluttering in the breeze.
                        We have nothing to complain of just now but our grub, which is of the most miserable
                                    quality. Should like to see a whole brigade of commissaries hung—about a
                                    regiment of quarter-masters ditto. ‘Twould improve our condition vastly,
                                    besides reducing the expenses of the War Department.
                        The balloon goes up every day—suppose ‘tis just to keep the
                                    Professor's "hand in."
                        I enclose a little memento, which please give to the General, if he will
                                    accept—if not, "burn it." It will doubtless recall to
                                    his mind "the days that we went gipsying."
                        
                                    Yours, in haste,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Harrison's Landing, James
            River, Va.,
                           
                                    Tuesday, Aug. 5, 1862.4
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene: ‘
                        Neath cover of the night the rebels brought up a couple of field batteries opposite
                                    our encampments on the river and 
                              
                                 3
                                            Ibid., Aug. 2, 1862.
                              
                                 4
                                            Ibid., Aug. 16, 1862.
                           
                                     treated the occupants thereof to a storm of
                                    shot and shell, lasting about two hours when the seige guns on our side the
                                    "drink" [river] having been brought into position, the secesh bull
                                    dogs were silenced. Our loss was four killed (also several horses and mules) and
                                    several wounded. The entire African force, mentioned in my last, fled to the woods,
                                    which have been filled with these pets ever since. None of the
                                    shells fell near us, but we had a fine view of the scene.
                        Last night orders were received to be in readiness to march at a moment's
                                    notice, with sixty rounds to each man, and two day's rations.
                        Early this morning a heavy cannonading has been going on up the river, but whether
                                    from our land forces under Hooker, or from the gun-boats, can't say.
                        Heard an officer, who came from Malvern Hills, where
                                    Hooker's division is now encamped, say that the stench arising from
                                    decaying bodies of men and horses, killed in the last fight near that place, was
                                    intolerable. Instead of being interred, the timber merely was chopped down over the
                                    poor fellows as they lay. He further stated that in the swamps men could be seen in
                                    upright positions, leaning against trees up to their knees in mire; others waist
                                    deep in the same, all deal, having been overtaken by the leaden messengers whilst
                                    endeavoring to extricate themselves from the swamp.
                        Squads of the soldiers of both armies have been discovered around pools of water, to
                                    which the poor wounded fellows had crawled, and overcome by weakness and loss of
                                    blood, lain down and died—some no doubt from want of
                                    attention—demonstrating the fact that neither side in the late
                                    "battles before 
                                        Richmond
                                    " paid that attention to those who fought and fell which justice to humanity deserves, and even the
                                    "regulations" require.
                        Col. Harrow's resignation having been accepted, the Fourteenth is minus two
                                    more of the commissioned officers that left Camp Vigo to "follow the
                                    fortunes of the regiment through the war." The 14th will miss the Colonel
                                    very much. They were just beginning to appreciate him and learn that he left nothing
                                    undone that would add to their comfort. In him your correspondent always found a
                                    friend, and none regret the loss our regiment has sustained more than Prock. Success
                                    always to our gallant Colonel!
                        Weather intensely hot.
                        
                                    Yours, perspiringly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Two miles west of 
                                    Rockville
                                 , Md.,
                           
                                    Monday, September 8th, 1862.5
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        We shipped from 
                                        Newport
                                     News6 on the 26th of August on board the ocean
                                    steamer 
                                        Illinois
                                    . Arrived at 
                                        Alexandria
                                     and went ashore about noon, August 28th—marched three miles
                                    out of town, and encamped on top of a high hill in the dog-fennel and briars. Left
                                    this delightful spot at 6 o'clock August
                                    29th—marched till 2 A. M. 
                              
                                 5
                                            Ibid., Sept. 20, 1862.
                              
                                 6 On the north side of the James
                                            River near the Bay.
                           
                                     —encamped immediately opposite the 
                                        Washington
                                     monument, breakfasted, moved up into a huge patch of thorns, thistles,
                                    briars, underbrush, and fallen timber and began the labor of clearing off a camping
                                    ground.
                        At 2 P. M. marched off, and pushing ahead all that hot afternoon and during the
                                    entire night, reached Centreville in time to cover the retreat of Pope's
                                        army.7 Here we remained on picket two nights—then
                                    leaving Centreville, acted as rear guard back to the "Chain
                                    Bridge," above 
                                        Georgetown
                                    , D. C.; again marching all day and all night, with the rebels pitching
                                    shells at us.
                        Crossing the Potomac Wednesday, Sept. 3d, encamped at Tindley-town, on the
                                    Harper's Ferry pike.
                        Friday, September 5th, received the first mail for a long time—two letters
                                    for Prock; one from General and ‘tother from Kizer. Thank you, boys!
                                    Words cannot express my gratitude. The Lord only knows when time and opportunity
                                    will be afforded me to answer ‘em.
                        We marched from Tindleytown at 4 P.M., Saturday, September 6th; passed through 
                                        Rockville
                                    , and here we are,8 drawn up in line-of-battle, on
                                    half rations, and the poorest kind at that, without blankets—scores
                                    without shoes—the same clothes on in which we left Harrison's
                                    Landing weeks ago. Many without shirts, socks, shoes or caps even, and this, too, on
                                    American soil, inside of the 
                                        United States
                                    , along side of regiments that are not only fresh, but with everything
                                    complete, and furnished with full rations of the best quality.
                        Our knapsacks and cooking utensils are somewhere. The former parted
                                    company with the owners at Harrison's Landing—the latter at 
                                        Newport
                                     News.
                        We have no transportation, and depend upon other brigade commissaries for grub. They
                                    of course issue out what suits them.
                        It is enough to make even a soldier swear. Having tried it, find that a real hearty
                                    cursing does a man good all over, though he may boast of but one shirt to his
                                    back—that a dirty one, and no time to wash it.
                        I only wish we could march through Old Post9 just as we are.
                        This is written in great haste, friend G; merely a scrap to inform you where we were.
                                    The items when I have more time.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              On the Battle Field,
                           
                                    Friday, Sept. 19, ‘62.10
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:—
                        Kimball's brigade covered itself with glory day before yesterday.11
                        
                        Our loss (the 14th) is heavy—189 killed, wounded and missing, out of 370
                                    that went into the fight.
                        
                           
                              7 General John Pope, who was In command of the Army of the
                                        Potomac, had met with defeat in the battle of Manassas (Second Bull Run) of Aug.
                                        2–0, 1862.
                           
                              8 Two miles west of 
                                            Rockville
                                        , a town northwest of 
                                            Washington
                                         (about 16 miles) on the road to Frederick.
                           
                              9
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        .
                           
                              10
                                        Western Sun, Oct. 4, 1862.
                           
                              11 The Battle of 
                                            Antietam
                                         occurred on Sept. 17, 1862.
                        
                        
                        McHenry is wounded severely, but will recover. Thos. B. Thompson has his leg broken
                                    by a minnie ball.
                        Not a man that went into the fight but brought away marks. The wonder is that any of
                                    the 14th remain unhurt—for four hours our regiment maintained their
                                    position, and only retired when ordered to do so the third time.
                        Time and opportunity are not afforded me to write more.
                        
                                    Truly, yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              "Bolivar Heights," Harper's
            Ferry, Va.,
                           
                                    Saturday, Oct. 6, 1862.12
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:—
                        On the 1st inst., Kimball's brigade, with a battery of twelve-pounder
                                    howitzers, a regiment of regular cavalry, and two sections of flying artillery,
                                    started on a reconnoisance [sic] across the Shenandoah to 
                                        Leesburg
                                    . The day was cloudy, but hot and sultry—the road a tortuous
                                    one. Our regiment brought up the rear, and marched with knapsacks
                                    on each man, carrying all he possessed. Supposing we were off in search of a new
                                    camp ground and field of operations—crowding swiftly ahead all day with
                                    scarcely a halt at sundown, a few of us (one-third of the regiment perhaps-passed
                                    through Waterfords. A company of the cavalry in our advance was raised here before
                                    the war. We found the citizens Union all over, and delighted to see the stars and
                                    stripes. Buckets of water, baskets of fruit, &c., were there. Willing hands
                                    and smiling faces, too, to offer them to the weary soldiers.
                        Our cavalry only reached 
                                        Leesburg
                                    —thirty miles proving too much for even the 1st brigade to
                                    march that day.
                        On the 2d, we returned by way of Hillsboro', (a secesh hole) encamping two
                                    miles west of this place. We had disposed of supper and all caught a short nap, when
                                    the order came to fall in, and we marched straight through to this camp—a
                                    distance of twelve miles in five hours, without halting. Word having been brought
                                    that the rebels were marching rapidly by a mountain road to cut off our retreat.13
                        
                        Your correspondent threw himself upon the earth at 3 o'clock A.M., October
                                    3d, about as near "gone up for good" as ever he has had the ill
                                    luck to be through over exertion on forced marches during sixteen months of hard
                                    service in the Old Dominion.
                        During our absence from here the President and McClellan reviewed the troops. Our
                                    brigade was no doubt sent away on purpose, for it is the hardest looking one in
                                    Sumner's corps; but the old regiments in it ("Shields' foot
                                    cavalry"), 7th 
                                        Virginia
                                    , 8th 
                                        Ohio
                                    , and 14th Indiana are some in a skirmish like 
                                        Antietam
                                    ; though they do present a rough appearance on parades.
                        Burnside is the only man that can get a yelp out of the 14th; they are always ready
                                    for him.
                        One month, to-morrow, since we received any mail matter.
                        
                           
                              12
                                        Western Sun, Oct, 18, 1862.
                           
                              13
                                        
                                 Leesburg, Waterford
                              , and Hillsboro are all
                                        east of the Blue Ridge, as well as east of the Shenandoah, and to the south of
                                        the Potomac.
                        
                        
                        The 
                                        Vincennes
                                     boys were rejoiced to see a familiar face from home in the person of I.
                                    S. Wilkins, and sorry were we all to part company with him so soon. Can't
                                    some friend come out and rough it with us for a month? We'll take good care
                                    of him if he will put up with soldier's fare.
                        The wounded of companies B14 and G are doing well—so I
                                    learn from Corporal Rob't Ewald, who has been attending to their wants for
                                    several days past.
                        What are soldiers worth in the Old Post now? At last advices they
                                    were offering at $125.
                        I forgot to mention that when we were in 
                                        Alexandria
                                     last I saw Bob Whittlesey. He reached over a six-story house, and shook
                                    hands with me. Bob had on an army shirt, much worn, and looked slim.
                        
                        I have heard that the General, having been crossed in love, had joined a fire
                                    company. Better let the hose alone, my boy!
                        The "Woolly Horse" is "booked" for a race on the
                                    first of January
                        next, I see. I hope ‘twill prove a d——d short one,
                                    and break the neck of both horse and rided.
                        "Nigger in the wood-pile."
                        
                                    Yours hopefully,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Harper's Ferry, 
                                    Va.
                                 ,
                           
                                    Oct. 23, 1862.15
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        Last night was the first one this regiment has spent in camp out of the last
                                    six—owing to circumstances, of which the writer hereof had no control, we
                                    have been two miles out on picket duty since Thursday last.
                        A late order of the War Department allowing the regulars to recruit their ranks from
                                    the volunteers is playing the devil with the 14th regiment. The regular recruiting
                                    officers all want Western men, and some fifty of our regiment have
                                    already enlisted in the artillery. Only four out of Co. G have as yet enlisted, viz:
                                    John Muth, John Burrell, and Adam Alt in battery C, and Nicholas Geise (of
                                    "Old Post") in battery A—all 4th U. S. Regulars. Others
                                    are anxious to enlist in the cavalry, and will doubtless do so as soon as a
                                    recruiting officer from that branch of the service makes his appearance in our camp.
                                    I do not think the regular infantry will succeed in procuring
                                    many, but the cavalry will "sweep" the old Fourteenth sure!
                        We do not muster now for duty over 20 men to the company on an
                                    average—Co.'s E and H turning out nine men
                                    each for dress parade yesterday after we came off "picket."
                        Col. Harrow is under arrest. The explanation of all these charges, &c., will
                                    come in due time. I am not at liberty now to state the "whys and
                                    wherefores." Suffice it to say that no regiment ever thought more highly of
                                    their Colonel than the Fourteenth does of Harrow; and to a man
                                    they sustain his course, looking upon him as the best friend they have in the
                                    service.
                        
                           
                              14 Company B of the Fourteenth Indiana was from 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , and was known the "Old Post Guards."
                           
                              15
                                        Western Sun, Nov. 1, 1862.
                        
                        
                        Amongst all our other troubles and difficulties, the d —— d
                                    mail won't come! "Nary" letter!
                                    "nary" paper! I have been "half froze" for news
                                    from home before now, but I am raging mad for it at present.
                        I saw Joe Hitchens (Allen & McGrady's Kitchens) the other day. He
                                    talks of going into the army bakery business here this winter. I guess, from his
                                    general appearance, he has quit soaking liquor—perhaps as most of us
                                    have, from the fact that ye "fluids" cannot be readily obtained.
                        The rebel pickets are still in sight of our camp, although three or four heavy
                                    reconnoisances have been made to 
                                        Charleston
                                     [Charles-town], for the time being driving the "grey
                                    coats" away. Occasionally one of our pickets is "knocked
                                    over," but, as a general thing, this barbarous practice has been done away
                                    with.
                        Capt. Cash will be "wid" us about the 10th or 15th of November.
                                    Should we have the good fortune to remain in camp, we will then get four
                                    months' pay, and ye "spons"16 are
                                    much needed in the regiment.
                        I learn the General is making prodigious strides in his matrimonial desires. Well,
                                    success to his "inclinations." May his "ways be ways of
                                    pleasantness, and all his paths (in that ‘doubtful state’) be
                                    peace." Any fires in town since he joined the hose company?
                        
                                    Yours, &c.,
                                    FROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Bolivar Heights, Harper's Ferry, 
                                    Va.
                                 ,
                           
                                    Sunday, October 28, 1862.17
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:—
                        To-day is the first cold, raw, wintry one we have experienced this winter, and being
                                    in the most exposed situation of any troops in the corps, we are all (those on duty
                                    excepted) housed in our "dens" and endeavoring to keep warm by
                                    wrapping up in our overcoats and blankets—fires are out of the question
                                    in these small summer shelter tents, only capable of containing two men each; and
                                    equally so out of doors, for the driving rain would speedily quench them.
                        Two Sibleys would hold all the men Co. "G" can muster for duty on
                                    this ridge.
                        General Order No. 154, War Department, allowing the regulars to enlist men from the
                                    volunteer regiments has reduced our number of "fighting men" at
                                    least one half. Nearly one hundred of the "Old Fourteenth" have
                                    joined the regulars within the past three days, and others will undoubtedly follow.
                                    As a list of the names of regulars from the 
                                        Vincennes
                                     companies would be perhaps interesting to those at home, I send it
                                    herewith:
                        List of Company "G'S" Regulars: 
                              Alt, Adam
                              Bower, Jacob
                              Burrell, John
                              Campbell, Joseph A.
                              Geiee, Nicholas
                              Muth, John S.
                              Munch, E. Gideon
                           
                        
                        Of the above seven, all are in battery "C," 4th Regular Artillery,
                                    except Nicholas Giese [Geise], who enlisted in Battery "A" of
                                    same.
                        
                           
                              16 A common term for money then was
                                        "spondulix," from which came "spons."
                                        perhaps.
                           
                              17
                                        Western Sun, Nov. 8, 1862.
                        
                        
                        List of Company "B's" Regulars. 
                              Harry Gaylord,
                              Joseph Barren,
                              Charles Baker,
                              Lewis Owens,
                              John O'Neil,
                              Leonard Daum,
                              Henry Shumaker,
                              Martin Otli,
                              John Young,
                              Tracy Pryor,
                              James Ware,
                              Thomas Green,
                              John Hutchins,
                              James Touhey,
                              John Lodge,
                              Nelson Dunham,
                              John Curry,
                              Bennett Crowder,
                              Bernardo Kelly,
                              Henry Dougherty,
                              Henry Joseph.
                           
                        
                        All of the above are either in the 1st U. S. Cavalry or 4th Regular Artillery.
                        The commanding General (Kimball) has addressed a circular to the troops composing his
                                    brigade, calling upon them to remember that they belong to a brigade that has never
                                    yet been beaten back by the foe; never known defeat; to remember their old battle
                                    flags, and above all, that their friends at home will look for them in the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" of the Army of the Potomac. The General is grieved
                                    beyond measure at this movement.
                        I will give you a few items as to the whereabouts of those absent from Co.
                                    "G": Fred Boyer, John P. Connelly, Corporal Thomas B. Thompson,
                                    and Paul Truckey are at "City Hotel Hospital," 
                                        Frederick City
                                    , Md.,—the two former "detailed" in the
                                    hospitals as nurses. Poor Truckey! he has been compelled to submit to an
                                    amputation—was wounded in the foot. How much the boys miss the active,
                                    energetic, always wide awake, and excitable Frenchman! No better soldier in the
                                    14th. John T. McClure, (known among his comrades as "Break
                                    Ranks"), Patrick Moran, and Frederick Yocum are in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    —the two former at West 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     Hospital, and the latter in South Street Hospital. James H. Simpson and
                                    Michael Ulrich are in the hospital at 
                                        Washington City
                                    —the former in Finley Hospital, and the latter in Patent
                                    Office Hospital—both will, in all probability, be honorably discharged,
                                    as they are reported physically unable to do duty as soldiers. Charles Otto Miller
                                    is at Craney Island Hospital, and is entirely used up so far as active service is
                                    concerned, by a white swelling. Frank Rice, Martin B. Johnston, and John Shahan
                                        are—somewhere, I suppose. Of the two former we have
                                    no word since August 29th, and of the latter since September 22d.
                        Lieut. Van Dyke is Acting Regimental Quarter Master—George Riley having
                                    taken the place of Capt. Thomas H. Collins, Brigade Commissary.
                        "Wharfo?" "He that knoweth his master's will and
                                    doeth it not shall be beaten with many stripes." The above mentioned
                                    individual "Wharfo", and the accompanying Biblical extract will
                                    remind my old comrade of the post-office (General Murphy) of an extinguished and
                                    venerable brother of Bruceville—a worthy member of the ancient and
                                    honorable order of Eclampsis.
                        The changes that have taken place lately afford unbounded satisfaction, and an
                                    abundance of "soft tack" to the regiment.
                        I was down to Harper's Ferry yesterday, and called in at the Adams Express
                                    Office. It is piled up with boxes for the soldiers, and out at the depot of the B.
                                    & O. Railroad there is at least five wagon loads  of the same. ‘Tis not of much use sending
                                    boxes to friends in the army stationed where there are perhaps from 30,000 to 50,000
                                    troops. A mere accident if the soldiers receive them. Persons sending boxes should
                                    be careful and obtain one entirely new, or have all old marks and letters on them
                                        planed (not marked) off; this would add greatly to the chances
                                    of their being received.
                        Our contraband (ye black cook) is whistling merrily away on "Rosin the
                                    Bow," (General's favorite) and, I opine, has dinner ready. So I
                                    will "hold up" if the rain does not, and "fall
                                    in" for grub—after which a huge pipe of the "cheering
                                    weed," and a nap, wrapped in my army blanket made of hog-hair and tow,
                                    mayhap a dream of—"What is It?" "When shall we
                                    three meet Again?" "Any other Man," or some other fancy
                                    sketch, and "more too." Adieu!
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Warrenton,
                           
                                    Nov. 11, ‘62.18
                           
                                
                        
                           Friend Greene:—
                        We reached this place from Harper's Ferry yesterday noon, after a hard tramp
                                    through mud and snow.
                        Five months ago, one bright Sabbath morning in June, the old Fourteenth, with colors
                                    flying, drums beating, full ranks and steady tread, marched proudly through this
                                    town. I thought at that time it was the lovliest spot the fortunes of war had placed
                                    in our path; and indeed all my comrades were in ecstacies, over and over again
                                    declaring the village unsurpassed in beauty by anything they had yet seen in the Old
                                    Dominion.
                        Now how changed! One can scarcely recognize the place. Silently we filed through the
                                    long streets—no martial music to herald our approach—the day
                                    (Sabbath again) cold and dreary—the side walks lined not with fair
                                    damsels, as before, to scowl and frown, but with rebel soldiers on parole, who
                                    seemed not at all pleased at the long column of blue jackets Southward bound.
                        We remain here a day or two to "gather strength"—i. e.,
                                    amass supplies—and then off once more in the direction of 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        Sergeant Colman, James H. Cook, and Rodgers, of Co. G, were left in hospital at
                                    Harper's Ferry.
                        Adolph Myer and E. Rush Loop have joined the company.
                        Several recruits have reached the regiment. They will find it rather a rough and
                                    tough undertaking to act the soldier in the field.
                        McClellan bade farewell to the Army of the Potomac this morning.19
                        
                        Enclosed find a fac simile of a gentleman of leisure. Their number in this army is
                                    legion. Observe how well Uncle Sam's uniform becomes this ape. Numerous
                                    orders have been published forbidding citizens from wearing the "true
                                    blue," but these "outside barbarians" are allowed to do
                                    as they please—go and come at their leisure and pleasure.
                        Drum is beating to fall in for inspection—must bring these scrawls to a
                                    close.
                        
                                    In haste, yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  18
                        Ibid., Nov. 22, 1862. Warrenton, 
                            Va.
                        , about forty miles south-west of 
                            Washington
                        .
               
                  19 McClellan was superseded by General Ambrose E. Burnside, who was born
                        at Liberty, Indiana, on Sept. 13, 1824.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Falmouth,
                           
                                    Nov. 20, ‘62.20
                           
                                
                        
                           Dear Greene:—
                        The second and ninth corps "d'armee," under command of
                                    Major General Sumner, are once more encamped on the shores of the Rappahannock.
                                    Opposite to us, in 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     and its environs, the Confeds. have a large force; at least, this is
                                    your correspondent's supposition, based upon the fact that we do not move
                                    forward and take possession of the city. It is three days since the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" arrived, and we brought up the rear.
                        The Fourteenth were ordered on picket before they could pitch their
                                    "flys," the afternoon of our advent (the 18th). Next day, about 3
                                    P.M., some of the 108th 
                                        New York
                                    's wagons passed through our picket lines, without a guard, to
                                    forage. Pretty soon, back they came on double quick, with a squad of rebel cavalry
                                    at their heels. Pop! Pop! went the pistols and carbines of the pursuing horsemen.
                                    "Halt! halt!
                        you d——d Yankees!" "Nary"
                                    halt—the teamsters without once looking back applied their whips and
                                    spurs and were soon "under the guns" of the old 14th. The
                                    out-post, composed of Co. B, gave the "grey backs" a volley that
                                    put them to the right about; not, however, till they (the rebels) had captured
                                    "Baalam and his ass" (a straggler on a mule, who slipped out with
                                    the forage party).
                        In less time that it takes to write it, the whole regiment was past the out-post,
                                    deployed as skirmishers and in full chase of the daring riders. After pursuing for a
                                    mile we were ordered to about face, and returned "loaded to the
                                    guards" with chickens, ducks, turkies, honey, cabbage, potatoes,
                                    &c.
                        Appropos of potatoes, Capt. Patterson and I, while on out-post duty not long since,
                                    purchased twenty-five cents worth of "Murphys," (one gallon)
                                    boiled and ate them at one meal, without salt! besides disposing
                                    of a couple of quarts of coffee, and twelve or fifteen crackers.
                        Some idea may be formed from this of a soldier's appetite when enjoying good
                                    health and living in the open air, marching 15 or 20 miles per
                                    diem, keeping wide awake all night, and rations short.
                        Turkies are worth $2 here; chickens $1 a pair. This is the
                                    price paid by Brigadier Generals and others who have money, but the Fourteenth is
                                    short of funds at present, and in order to keep up with the times and add to their
                                    meagre bill of fare, "flank" the unlucky birds whenever occasion
                                    offers.
                        For several days past it has been drizzling, and to-day a steady rain has set in,
                                    which will, if continued, I opine, delay the march of ye Army of ye Potomac.
                        Thomas C. Baily, formerly Sergeant Major, has been promoted to Adjutant. Truly, a
                                    "reward of merit."
                        A few cannon shots are exchanged occasionally by our advance and the rebels on tother
                                    side of the "drink" [river].
                        An old darkey acting as cook in this company, a runaway from Culpepper Court House or
                                    near there, shakes his wooly head ominously when the big guns thunder and says:
                                    "Spec dey will coach dis child 
                              
                                 20
                                            Western Sun, Nov. 29, 1862.
                           
                                     yet, dem rubbuls mighty cunnin. Ise feard
                                    youall will be gwine backards berry fast fore long, Stonewall has a smart chance ob
                                    men ober dar—whar will dis old niggur be found den? cotch a runin if
                                    he's cotch—dats sartin. Yeah! Yeah!"
                        I am on a dark subject—the day is a dark one—it is nearly dark,
                                    in fact, so dark that I must close by consigning all commissaries to the devil, as
                                    in consequence of their neglect, no candles are to be had hereabouts.
                        I hear the General is going to challenge me—presume the weapons will be
                                    bows and arrows, as I learn from an "old reliable" man that he has
                                    been "spending" considerable time lately practising with Cupid,
                                    sober as any Justice of the Peace.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Falmouth,
                           
                                    Dec. 9, ‘62.21
                           
                                
                        
                           Dear Greene:—
                        The ground is covered with snow, and cold winds sweeping from the north compel the
                                        houseless "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" to hover more closely around their huge camp
                                    fires—"shelter tents" or "flys" are
                                    "no whar" during these "nor'
                                    westers"—many are torn to shreds, while others have been blown
                                    hellwards (saith the preacher). An order has just been issued to construct winter
                                    quarters, to be composed of small cabins, containing not over six men each, covered
                                    with the tattered "flys" and oilcloth. The men would have been
                                    comfortably housed two weeks ago, but must wait for orders, if they
                                    froze—that is according to army regulations. Many horses and mules have
                                    perished the past three days for want of shelter. They can be bought for a
                                    "mere song"—don't cost much, and the order to
                                    build stables has not been issued. Precious little feeling for man or beast in this
                                    or any other "grand army." We are packed down in between two huge
                                    hills—see nothing, hear nothing, know nothing of what is going on in the
                                    world with the exception of what can be gleaned from papers a week or two old. We
                                        suppose considerable, imagine a great deal, anticipate
                                    wonders, swallow yards of "grape vine" reports, dispose of our
                                    daily bread in silence, and bitterly curse the day we learned to use tobacco, for
                                    that "fragrant weed" cannot be obtained hereabouts—even
                                    the old worm-eaten 
                                        Virginia
                                     leaf has "played out." Patience is a virtue. Time
                                    brings changes. Hasten old hoary-headed Father, thou man of the scythe and
                                    hourglass, to our assistance! Leave thy watch and sword behind. Let thine arms bear
                                    to us, thy famished children, the "dead loads" of
                                    "Cavendish" tobacco!
                        Smoke cures meat. Everything has two sides. Not so—if any man will show me
                                    two sides to one of our camp-fires, I'll "cave." There is
                                    a smoky side, and that is all around. Enough tears are daily shed by the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" to wash away the sins of a division quartermaster or
                                    twenty-five M.C.'s22 of the last session. A man can cry
                                    just as much as he pleases here and not be for a moment suspected of acting baby.
                        
                           
                              21
                                        Ibid., Dec. 20, 1862.
                           
                              22 Members of Congress.
                        
                        
                        I dreamed of being in the——yes, the——23 the guard house at 
                              Woodstock, Va.
                           , last night—thought I was endeavoring to
                                    gnaw one of the iron bars composing the window shutters in twain,
                                    when all at once one of my molars snapped. The pain roused me, when I discovered
                                    that a huge iron-clad Monitor cracker had been thrust into my jaw by some wretch,
                                    thereby causing an innocent man a horrible dream of the past and
                                    the loss of a valuable grinder.—Verily, "the way of the
                                    transgressor is hard"—so is "army bread."
                        No hopes of the paymaster till the middle of next year—no, January, I
                                    should say.
                        Col. Coons and Alf. Smith are anxiously looked for. A warm welcome from old comrades
                                    awaits them.
                        I must not forget little Johnny Kelly—the brave boy who has been through
                                    so many campaigns with the Old Fourteenth. "Wee
                                    gaits," Johnny? Mind your eye!
                        The "Tiger Tail" mess is no more. The members of that once merry,
                                    jovial "section" of Co. "G" are scattered far
                                    and wide. None have "gone under" yet, however, and Prock has great
                                    hopes the "last trump" will not sound before the
                                    "twenty" can enjoy one huge "Martinsburg"
                                    together.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Falmonth,
                           
                                    Dec. 19, ‘62.24
                           
                                
                        
                           Dear Greene:—
                        Having lain here idle long enough to allow the rebels to complete their formidable
                                    works on the heights south of 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    , this army was ordered last Wednesday night25 to
                                    prepare three days' rations, &c.
                        At early dawn Thursday, our batteries opened on the town. The day was passed by the
                                    Fourteenth under arms within a mile perhaps of the river.
                        About four o'clock word was brought that the 7th 
                                        Michigan
                                     had crossed in the pontoon boats and driven the rebel sharp-shooters
                                    out of town. The column was put in motion towards the river, but on reaching the
                                    level plateau in front of the town, the rebel batteries opened on us, and we were
                                    counter-marched again behind the bluff and rested on our arms all night. Early next
                                    morning we crossed without opposition and stacked arms near the centre of town, on
                                    Caroline street.
                        Our boys immediately "deployed" for tobacco, and pretty soon an
                                    abundant supply was found in a cellar, seized and distributed to the hungry. We
                                    passed the whole day on this street—roll call every hour. At night the
                                    troops all sought shelter in the houses in front of which they chanced to be placed.
                                    The night passed off quietly. A few shots were exchanged by our pickets and the
                                    enemy's skirmishers, but this had never entirely ceased from the moment we
                                    entered the town.
                        
                           
                              23 The words were probably there in the original, the
                                        editor of the Sun deleting them.
                           
                              24
                                        Western Sun, Dec. 27, 1862.
                           
                              25 The Battle of 
                                            Fredericksburg
                                         occured on Saturday, Dec, 18. When Prock says "last
                                        Wednesday night," he means not December 17, two days before he wrote
                                        his letter, but Dec. 10, the Wednesday bfore the battle. In this letter, Prock
                                        gives an unusually fine account of the Battle of 
                                            Fredericksburg
                                         as he saw it from the ranks.
                        
                        
                        Saturday, the 13th, at noon, the 4th and 8th 
                                        Ohio
                                     were sent out as skirmishers, and pretty soon our brigade followed,
                                    marching in two ranks in order to cross a narrow bridge over a race, just at the
                                    outskirts of town. The head of our column had scarcely crossed this when the rebel
                                    batteries of rifled thirty-two pounders opened a cross-fire on us. The shells fell
                                    thick and fast, exploding with deafening roar right in our midst. Shattered, torn
                                    and bleeding, our column still pushed on—gained the open
                                    ground—drew up in line of battle, and with bayonets fixed, rushed forward
                                    to the charge. And such a charge may I never witness again!
                        Two fences were in front of our regiment. Over these we had to climb—the
                                    huge shells exploding above and around us. Gaining the top of a ridge, every foot of
                                    which was swept momentarily by the enemy's artillery, we could see the
                                    FIRST LINE of the rebel fortifications in all their strength, still half a mile in
                                    advance. We were not in reach of them yet, and men were falling fast. Not a cannon
                                    had opened on our side. Still on went the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade," at a double-quick, and soon were in reach of the
                                    rebel infantry, who protected by their rifle-pits, filled the air with minnie balls,
                                    while grape and cannister rattled and crashed through our thinned ranks. Here the
                                    column paused and opened fire within about three hundred yards of the
                                    enemy's works, and here the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" held their position till near sun-down, and not one
                                    step did that line advance beyond this point—although brigade after
                                    brigade was rushed out into this human slaughter pen. Darkness alone closed the
                                    scene of bloody strife, and our broken columns fell back and were re-formed in the
                                    streets.
                        Our loss—that is, the loss of Sumner's Corps, is equal to that at 
                                        Antietam
                                    . The rebels, in my estimation, must have killed about five to one. Our
                                    regiment captured two prisoners and that is all I have seen or heard of being taken.
                        Towards the close of the action, our artillery endeavored to obtain a position, but
                                    the pieces were no sooner unlimbered, than a shot from the heights either dismounted
                                    the guns or killed men and horses by dozens.
                        The whole of Sunday and Monday was spent in removing and taking care of the wounded.
                                    The dead were left on the field. Sharp shooters from both sides made it a hot place
                                    out there.
                        Monday night we quietly withdrew. Whether all our troops came across or not, I
                                    can't say. A detail has gone over to-day to bury the dead.
                        
                           
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     is destroyed, pillaged, and burned.
                        The following members of Co. G. were wounded: Capt. Patterson, slightly in arm;
                                    Corporal Thos. Piety, slightly in right side; Corporal Amos Edmonson, slightly in
                                    head; Private Thomas Foster, seriously in neck; Peter Fryer, Michael Mullville and
                                    Frank Haggerty, all slightly by shells. Orderly John McClure is missing.
                        John Hutchins and Corporal Wm. Huffman, of Co. B, had their legs torn off by shells.
                        
                        Weather dreadful cold—no fire in the tent and no place to build
                                    one—am devilish near froze.
                        The loss of our regiment is four killed, seventy wounded, and eight missing.
                        
                                    Yours truly, and freezingly,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana,
                              Near Falmouth, 
                                    Va.
                                 ,
                           
                                    Dec. 21, ‘62.26
                           
                                
                        
                           Dear Greene:—
                        A detail of three men from each brigade in this corps was sent over under flag of
                                    truce to bury the dead. William Hill, of Co. G, was one. They found the 13th 
                                        Mississippi
                                     acting as Provost Guard in 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    . Quite a number of families had returned to view their desolated homes.
                                    Our dead had all been stripped naked, and the rebel cavalry (
                                        Virginia
                                    ) were galloping over the battle-field regardless of where their firey
                                    steeds planted their iron shod hoofs. A long ditch was dug, entirely across the
                                    field, and in this, three layers deep, our brave fellows were
                                    placed. The corses were in such an advanced state of decomposition ‘twas
                                    impossible to distinguish individuals. 
                                        Clay
                                     Welch, a Sergeant of Co. F, 14th Indiana, and one of the best soldiers
                                    in the regiment, was the only one recognized, and that by his name tattooed on his
                                    arm. A guard of the 13th accompanied the detail to the field. They were very civil
                                    and drove the vicious cavalrymen away with the bayonet. The infantry of both armies
                                    are "heavy" on the cavalry, and vice versa.
                        The sight 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     and the battle-field presented on the 14th inst. would have made even
                                    the old hell-hound, Horace Greeley, cry—Peace!
                        If I could only occupy the President's chair one day I would devote the
                                    entire twenty-four hours to the hanging of five hundred fools and all the
                                    correspondents of the daily 
                                        New York
                                     and 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     papers. To see how a battle looks to "a man up a
                                    tree" two miles off and half scared to death, to know exactly the day and
                                    hour on which 
                                        Richmond
                                    
                                    must fall, to learn all about the secret
                                    movements of the army, and when the "powers that be" are crazy for
                                    a battle, thirsting for blood, which must be shed, no 4 matter
                                    what the cost, one has only to read the effusion of these "daily
                                    specials." They know all about it before and after—in a horn?27
                        
                        Four of our wounded have gone to the hospital—that is members of this
                                    company. Corporal Thomas Piety, slightly wounded in side by a shell, and privates
                                    Thomas Foster, Peter Fryer and Frank Haggerty, all severely.
                        John Hutchins, of Co. B, is dead. Poor John! He joined the Regular cavalry some time
                                    ago, but was ordered back to his company and came up the day before the fight. Such
                                    is fate!
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  26
                        Western Sun, Jan. 8, 1863.
               
                  27 This is a fine burst of righteous indignation.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Falmouth,
                           
                                    Jan. 8, ‘63.28
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        Sunrise—guard mountings, drills, reviews, inspections, parades, the
                                    "gas bag" at head-quarters swinging in mid air with basket
                                    suspended beneath, a human head or two visible above its rim, to catch a glimpse of
                                    ye rebel pickets and see that they still continue to wear grey uniforms and carry
                                    guns. Sunset—watch-fires innumerable blaze on every hill, their red glare
                                    reflecting on the dark pine forest and exposing the erect forms of the sentinels as
                                    silent and watchful they pace their beats, the ever-changing but always welcome face
                                    of fair Luna, a brigade of bright stars in attendance, her cold rays resting alike
                                    on the mound of earth, beneath which sleeps one who has fallen in the bloody strife
                                    and fills a hero's grave, on the bivouac of the sleepless picket guard and
                                    on the numerous rude huts composing the camps of the "Right Grand
                                    Division," the flaming torch of our signal corps constantly dipping and
                                    waving to and fro. These compose, in part, the daily and nightly exhibitions on the
                                    "boards" of this, our theatre of war. The loud,
                                    shrill blast of bugles, the incessant roll of drums and screams of fifes, the
                                    swelling music of full bands (a few are left) mingled with the piteous cries of
                                    thousands of half-starved, half-frozen mules, and the harsh "caw,
                                    caw!" of the carion crow as he circles over all, composes our orchestra.
                                    Admittance—free. Can't some of your readers come out and see one of the huge "Anacondas" that is engaged
                                    in "crushing the doomed rabbit of rebellion?"
                        Old Abe's "free papers" to all, including Africans and the
                                    rest of mankind, also the apes, orangoutangs, and monkies in South America caused me
                                    an hour's hearty laugh, two hour's steady cry, four hours big with
                                    mad, and I am swearing in all the languages known to Americans or Europeans, have
                                    reached the "long German oaths," where you have to swallow halt
                                    and repeat—a few hearty curses in my "native tongue"
                                    are indulged in occasionally by way of relief. I laughed because I am now certain of
                                    seeing the old piece of political party, mixed with wool, in an insane asylum at no
                                    distant day. I'll be the visitor—"mind that I" He the
                                    "animal" on exhibition. I cried because he did not kill himself
                                    when a youth splitting rails on bets. I choked with wrath to think that he has
                                    command of the old ship of State for twenty six long months to come—hence the "tall cussin'."
                        I see that the 65th Indiana were treated to a dinner in 
                                        Madisonville
                                    , my "old 
                                        Kentucky
                                     home." Wish Frock had been there to enjoy it with
                                    ‘em. They have a lot of prisoners, it seems, in the long, low, brick
                                    school-house, where Frock was years ago taught the usefulness of the rod and Rule of
                                    Three by one Snow & Sons. "Fond recollections" have I of
                                    the days when the boy "marveled," studied "Loss and
                                    Gain," "Tare and Tret," wore patched clothes, with a
                                    "letter to the post office," fit any one of his own
                                        size, and was afraid to look at the big girls. My aversion to the
                                    "mourning color" (black) may be traced to those days. "My
                                    boy," I dreaded "black marks" and my turn to score on the
                                    huge black board, the scores being generally transferred to my back, often 
                              
                                 28
                                            Western Sun, Jan. 17, 1868.
                           
                                     leaving black stripes thereon; evidences of a
                                        smart—boy disinterested people said, but I
                                    couldn't see it! Nearly twenty years have flown, but in connection with
                                    those happy, fleeting hours, there is a green spot on memory's tablet time
                                    can never eface.
                        Mention Stuart's29 name to one of our sutlers if you
                                    wish to see a man turn pale. His always "wide-awake" cavalry is a
                                    terror to ye military store-keepers of ye Army of ye Potomac. Our cavalry (like a
                                    colt's tail, is always in the rear, when these daring rebel horsemen make a
                                    "raid."
                        Frank Haggerty, (Ironsides the boys used to call him) of Co. G, severely wounded at 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    , is dead.
                        No intelligence of Orderly John McClure. Poor "Brass!" I am afraid
                                    we shall never see him more this side of 
                                        Jordan
                                    .
                        Corporal Robert D'Ewald has an excellent situation as clerk in the Medical
                                    Director's Office at 
                                        Washington City
                                    . Bob's health was poor, totally unfitting him for field
                                    service. Am rejoiced at his success. A No. 1 clerk and a clever fellow is he.
                        John A Stannis, Orderly Sergeant of Co. B, is promoted to 2d Lieutenant. Also
                                    Sergeant Bradford, Co. E. Sergeant Hays, Co. A, is promoted to Captain.
                        We have a new banner—(old one sent to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     some time since)—color blue—"Cheat
                                    Mountain, Green Brier, Winchester, and' "
                                        Antietam
                                    " inscribed on it—brought out by Lieut. Col. Coons.
                        We hope to be relieved before long—there is "sich talk."
                                    "Sumner's corps will be relieved soon," says the 
                                        New York
                                     Herald. ‘Feard ‘tis a "grape
                                    vine" or I would "holler powerful." You have Luck with you always, (my compliments to him) but we are Luck less, and
                                    consequently I doubt the Herald's paragraph.
                        The old soldiers, the true volunteers, are down on the last batch sent
                                    out—especially the "nine months men." Heard something
                                    like the following ‘tother day whilst on picket:
                        Old soldier, who volunteered for three years—on
                                    post—to nine months man, who has straggled from camp! "Halt! Got
                                    a pass? None, eh? What regiment? 132d 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , are you? Well, see here, you three hundred dollar man, git to camp on
                                    ‘double quick.’ The hospital steward is looking for you with a
                                    thirty day furlough in his hand. Hump yourself, you Government swindler; take your
                                        bounty-full carcass out of my sight!"
                        Says I: "Guard, what's the matter?"
                        "Dam them hirelings!" says he; "I hate them."
                        Yours, sitting on Abe's proclamation, cursing legislation and speculation
                                    like damnation,
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," Falmouth,
                           
                                    March 8, ‘63.30
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        March weather—a constant succession of storms, a scarcity of fuel, coupled
                                    with a severe round of picket duty, and a 
                              
                                 29 J. E. B. Stuart, "Jeb." Stuart,
                                            noted leader of Confederate cavalry.
                              
                                 30
                                            Western Sun, Mar. 21, 1863.
                           
                                     grand review of the whole army by General
                                    Joseph Hooker have prevented your correspondent from writing sooner, since his
                                    return to the inhospitable shores of the rushing Rappahannock,31
                                    the region of big guns, bayonets, brigadiers, and blouses, pontoons, patrols, poor
                                    horses, pistols, and provost marshals, red tape, runaways, rough usage, and rougher
                                    roads. Change, there has been none I can discover, and my "leave of
                                    absence" was so deuced short that I fell into the regular rounds on my
                                    return, scarcely realizing that I had not been performing "daily
                                    duty" all the time with the 14th. But that I have been home and seen many
                                    friends, who received the soldier with open arms, and left nothing undone that could
                                    in any possible way contribute to render his short stay a pleasant—aye,
                                    most delightful and agreeable one—is a fact recorded on memory's
                                    tablet, which neither the vicissitudes of war, changes of father Time, nor the
                                    fortunes or misfortunes fate may have in store for me can ever eface [sic]. To my friends and acquaintances in 
                                        Vincennes
                                     I return my most sincere and heartfelt thanks for their cordial welcome
                                    home.
                        On my return to the army, I passed a few days in the Capital of my country. And here
                                    I must digress and remind you that the first sight I had of this much-talked-of city
                                    of wonders, was just at daylight on the morning of the 27th of August, 1862, out of
                                    a bivouac in a huge brier patch, directly opposite the 
                                        Washington
                                     Monument, on the Virgiania shore of the Potomac, with three
                                    days' rations of fat port and wormy crackers in my haversack, and a shirt
                                    on I had worn for fifteen days. A short sight it was, too, for the next morning we
                                    were at Centreville, thirty miles off, to cover the retreat of Pope's army.
                                    Well, the second view your correspondent had of this abode of the "Powers
                                    that be," and that stupendous humbug, the Monument, was not under
                                    difficulties, and I must admit that, like the Frenchman, I was "very mooch
                                    disgust." As a city it don't amount to anything. Country town
                                    like, there is but one street deserving the name, and the surroundings are anything
                                    but what one would be led to suppose those encompassing the Capital of this country
                                    should be. Stagnant pools, acres of filth, hospitals, and the barracks of thousands
                                    of soldiers and contrabands—the former are perhaps needed to cover the
                                    city, and their presence indispensable, but I could not see
                                    it—the latter are a nuisance anywhere, even in South America, where they
                                    are hairy all over and have claws. Why are not the fifty thousand soldiers I saw
                                    between 
                                        Washington
                                     and 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , O., sent to the front? Surely we have need for their help out here, to
                                    relieve us of incessant fatigue and picket duty. I was glad to escape from this
                                    city, overflowing with recklessness, wickedness, corruption, depravity, holiday
                                    soldiers, and place hunters; and, I assure you, by no means pleased to think I had
                                    sacrificed three days of unalloyed pleasure in Old Post for the same disgust and
                                    loathing in 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        
                           
                              31 For two months no letters from Lieut. William Landon
                                        ("Prock") appeared in the Sun. In the interim, he received a
                                        fifteen-days furlough and paid a visit to 
                                            Vincennes
                                        . Arriving on Saturday, Feb. 14 (Sun. Feb. 21), he left for the
                                        front attain on Feb. 20. Said the Sun of that date: "We understand that
                                        Lieut. Landon, ‘Frock’, wilt leave tonight for his
                                        regiment in 
                                            Virginia
                                        . May he live through the ‘fiery ordeal’ and
                                        peace soon be established, that his genial countenance may again be among
                                        us." His departure on Saturday night. Feb. 20, is confirmed by an item
                                        in the Sun of Feb. 28, 1868.
                        
                        
                        Col. John Coons is with us again, and in command of the brigade. His wounds have
                                    entirely healed.
                        Gen, Nathan Kimball will be with us no more, having been, so the papers report,
                                    assigned to duty in the Southwest. The "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" of the Army of the Potomac feel that they have
                                    sustained their greatest loss during the war in the absence of their brave and
                                    beloved General, and the man cannot be found that will fill his place in their
                                    confidence and affection. Success to the Chief tan wherever he goes!
                        We had hopes that our brigade, or regiment at least, would be mounted, but guess
                                    ‘tis no go. In all probability they will fill us up with drafted men. A
                                    rough time of it they will have in the ranks of the 14th.
                        John P. Conley, of Co. G, has been discharged on account of wounds received at the
                                    battle of Winchester. We number now but fifty-three, present and absent, and at
                                    least one-third of these will be discharged by the first of May.
                        Private Adolph Meyer, of this company, who was taken prisoner during the three
                                    days' skirmish on Cheat Mountain, is promoted to
                                    Sergeant Major.
                        I enclose an extract from General Orders No, 18 in which you will see that the old
                                    Fourteenth is not, fortunately, mentioned:32
                        
                        Spring is here I suppose, but as there are no trees in sight of our encampment, as a
                                    matter of course there are no signs such as blossoms and blue birds to remind us of
                                    the change.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of the 14th Indiana Volunteers,
                              Army of the Potomac, "
                                    Gibraltar
                                  Brigade," near Falmouth,
                           
                                    April 8, ‘63.33
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        Almost incessant storms of rain and snow have so far composed our weather ration for
                                    the spring of ‘63—not a blade of fresh green grass, not a bud
                                    nor bird visible throughout the encampments of the army of the Potomac. This is one
                                    of the most Cheerless days imaginable, without or within quarters ‘tis
                                    all the same. A driving storm, half rain half snow, keeps those on duty moving
                                    briskly to and fro for warmth, whilst the whirling wind descends the barrel-topped
                                    chimneys, filling the eyes of those in quarters with smoke, and rendering their
                                    abodes anything but comfortable and fires a nuisance, though ‘tis almost
                                    freezing cold.
                        Gen. Hooker34 held a grand review, and there has been inspections
                                    without end in spite of the inclemency of the weather.
                        The Irish Brigade celebrated St. Patrick's day in grand style. The necks of
                                    two horses were broken in the hurdle race, the riders escaping with a few slight
                                    bruises and most complete coatings of mud.
                        
                           
                              32 The excerpt which relates to a number of regiments, not
                                        including the Fourteenth Indiana, is omitted
                           
                              33
                                        Western Sun, Apr, 18, 1863.
                           
                              34 General Joseph E. ("Fighting Joe") Hooker who
                                        had superseded Burnside.
                        
                        
                        The greased pig and soaped pole, on top of which was placed a thirty-day furlough,
                                    caused an immeasurable amount of amusement to the lookers-on at the catching and
                                    climbing—the fun grew fast and furious, "potteen negus"
                                    was served out freely, and all worshippers of the "varmint"
                                    destroying Saint, and many who were not, enjoyed themselves hugely.
                        Col. Brooks of the 51st Pa. (not in our Brigade) assumed command of the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade" on Saturday last, and by way of a pleasant
                                    introduction, gave us two Brigade drills that day on a high plateau opposite camp
                                    during a nor'wester that blew sticks, stones, gravel and clouds of dust
                                    into our faces.
                        Gov. Morton paid us a flying visit. In a short speech to the 14th intimated that our
                                    thinned ranks would speedily be filled with conscripts—an unlucky day
                                    that for the unfortunates, but a merry one for the qui vive for the half promised
                                    sport in store for ‘em.
                        The order granting leaves of absence and furloughs was revoked on the 26th of March,
                                    and no more were to be granted after the 1st of April, but on the 2d of April
                                    ‘twas again renewed, and officers and soldiers can as heretofore take a
                                    flying trip home. Adjutant Bailey took advantage of the last five days of grace and
                                    paid a visit to 
                                        Washington
                                    , where he informs me he had the honor of being present at the wedding
                                    of Corporal Robert D'Ewald, of Co. G, 14th Indiana Volunteers, and Miss
                                    Mary Poman, of 
                                        Vincennes
                                    . Success attend the corporal and his fair partner in their journey
                                    through life!
                        I am indebted to Bob for a neatly-written copy of "The Pleasures of Life by
                                    one who has enjoyed it," which I enclose to you, friend G. I trust the
                                    Corporal will profit by the lessons contained therein.
                        Whilst on guard duty one evening not long since near the Lacy House, on the river
                                    bank, directly opposite Fredericksuburg, your correspondent, impelled by curiosity
                                    perhaps more than ought else, attended prayer meeting in that establishment. The
                                    dwelling, a fine two-story brick, was occupied last June by General McDowell as his
                                    head-quarters. "Twas at that time surrounded by a neatly-painted fence, and
                                    many beautiful and stately trees besides lilac and rose bushes and other ornamental
                                    shrubbery were scattered throughout the grounds which were laid off in gravelled
                                    walks, beds of choice flowers, &c. None of these are left; the trees and
                                    fence have been used for firewood; the shrubbery torn up and flower beds trampled
                                    under foot. Stores belonging to the Sanitary Committee occupy one wing of the house
                                    under charge of Mrs. Harris and Mrs. Beck, two widow ladies. The headquarters of the
                                        River Picket Guard are in the other wing. The committee
                                    furnish the soldiers with hot gruel and onion soup every day; our boys call it,
                                    "Slopping the Pickets." Prayer meetings are held every evening at
                                    7 o'clock by the committee, and all officers and soldiers not on duty at
                                    that hour are invited to attend and take part in the devotions.
                        Saw a brigade drill of the rebels, three regiments, and about seven hundred men each;
                                    also a dress parade in Dixie. They manoeuvre and handle their arms well, but the
                                    variety of colors exhibited in their habiliments (cannot call them uniforms)
                                    presented a most grotesque  and ludicrous
                                    appearance, no two being dressed alike in a whole regiment. Quite a crowd of the
                                    motley crew were engaged in a game of ball, and occasionally a bevy of damsels of an
                                    uncertain age would come down to the rebel picket line and take a long look at the
                                    Federal vedettes pacing their beats on the "sacred soil."
                        Jeff rather got the start of Abe in the fasting, prayer, and thanksgiving
                                    proclamation—they are ahead of time in Dixie.
                        The town-clock in 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     is full thirty minutes faster than our time; its heavy deep-toned
                                    strokes ringing out on the still frosty night air remind the soldier of home, and
                                    "Life and times during days (and nights) gone by" in old 
                                        Vincennes
                                    .
                        No letters or papers received from Old Post since my return to the army.
                                    ‘Spose the boys are so badly scared at the idea of being drafted that
                                    they have forgotten everything and every body else. Please send me a back number or
                                    two of your paper.
                        President Lincoln and his spouse are the guests of General Joe Hooker, and will
                                    review the cavalry of the Army of the Potomac to-day.
                        I cannot close this epistle without congratulating my old post-office chum, the
                                    "General," on his extraordinary good fortune—am told
                                    that through the influence of Capt. P., of 
                                        Westport
                                    , he has obtained a commission as "Grand Teaser," and
                                    transportation furnished for three. Wonder who he will appoint as
                                    acting Aides-de-Camp? Guess I could name ‘em, but I won't. Dr.
                                    Cauet will no doubt cheerfully ferry the trio over the 
                                        Wabash
                                     free of charge, and bid them God speed on their journey to
                                    Brigham's dominions. To my certain knowledge, those three have embraced
                                    everything but Mormonism.
                        Capt. Patterson arrived on Friday last looking well, and is on picket duty to-day.
                        Lieut. Van Dyke is expected to-morrow night with "good news from
                                    home" for some of us.
                        Sutler's prices, like crinoline, have an upward tendency—fresh
                                    oysters 50 cents a quart; fresh sausage 40 cents per pound; butter 60 cents per
                                    pound; eggs 60 cents per dozen, and very weak whiskey only two
                                    dollars per pint!
                        The soldiers quartered here have, in addition to their regular rations, an abundance
                                    of fresh herring, caught by themselves in the Rap-pahannock.
                        Since I last wrote six of Co. G have been discharged on account of disability and
                                    wounds. We now number forty-six, including twelve absent—of whom at least
                                    six will be discharged soon.
                        A subscription to raise funds for the purpose of purchasing a sword to be presented
                                    to Major Wm. H. French, is in circulation—the sword to be purchased and
                                    presented by the officers and soldiers of this regiment.
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              U. S. Ford, Rappahannock River,
                           
                                    Wednesday, May 6, 1863.35
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        Leaving camp early on the morning of the 28th of April, we marched eight miles to
                                    this Ford—next morning we went on picket, and caught two (not rebs) but
                                    oppossums, and swallowed a few yards of a very heavy "grape vine,"
                                    which I will not relate here. At 4 P.M. we crossed the river and marched to within a
                                    mile-and-a-half of Chancellorville, on a road leading to Bowling
                                    Green—passed the night in a large corn field, spreading our blankets
                                    right down in the mud and mire. Our spring campaign had begun in earnest. At four
                                    A.M., as the drummers were preparing for revielle, a roar of artillery and the sharp
                                    crack of rifles in our advance, rendered other music unnecessary to arouse the
                                    sleeping soldiers. Breakfast hastily disposed of, there was a thorough inspection of
                                    arms and ammunition.
                        At 2 P.M. we moved down the road to Chancellorville to within half a mile of where
                                    the fighting was going on, when the brigade was countermarched back to its old
                                    position in the open field, and again slept on their arms.
                        All of the next day was spent in shifting around, changing positions, chopping
                                    timber, and digging rifle-pits—the battle raging with terrific fury on
                                    our right and left, particularly on the right, where towards night the Eleventh
                                    Corps were driven back a mile or more in great disorder and
                                    confusion—some regiments throwing away nearly all their arms, and one
                                    "making tracks" without firing a shot.
                        During the entire night of Saturday, May 2d, a tremendous racket was kept
                                    up—trees falling in all directions—the dull, grating sound of
                                    pickets and spades mingling with the sharper strokes of the axe—the
                                    incessant pop! pop! of pickets, and at intervals a crash of musketry from a whole
                                    division, followed by the heavy boom of a battery, and the hissing, whizzing and
                                    bursting of shells—whilst above and over all the bright, full moon looked
                                    calmly down upon the scene of strife. Not a wink of sleep for any soldier that
                                    night, save the sleep that knows no waking. At day-light the musketry increased to
                                    one long, continuous roar.
                        At 7 o'clock three regiments of the "
                                        Gibraltar
                                     Brigade," the Fourth 
                                        Ohio
                                    , Seventh 
                                        Virginia
                                     and Fourteenth Indiana, marched into the woods directly in front of
                                    General French's headquarters, and engaged the enemy in the centre.
                                    ‘Twas a severe contest, but the rebels, soon finding the woods too hot,
                                    retreated to their rifle-pits. Our boys speedily, drove them out and across the 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     and Gordonsville pike or plankroad, when a rebel battery opened on
                                    their flank, and a second line of gray coats appeared four ranks deep, and opening a
                                    tremendous fire compelled the brigade to fall back—which was done in
                                    excellent order, till our support coming up the brigade was withdrawn to our own
                                    rifle-pits, where the rebels shelled us for half an hour, severely wounding several.
                        
                           
                              35
                                        Western Sim, May 16, 1863. This letter carries an account of
                                        the Battle of Chancellorsville (May 8 to 7) to the day it was written. Lieut.
                                        Landon was wounded and sent to a hospital in 
                                            Washington
                                        , D. C. He was not able to return to the service until the middle of
                                        October. He missed the 
                                            Gettysburg
                                         campaign, SO there are no letters for that period.
                        
                        
                        Your correspondent was struck with a minnie ball. Passing through my boot it lodged
                                    against the side of my foot, severely bruising my heel, and rendering it impossible
                                    for me to wear boot or shoe for a week to come. Thankful ‘tis no worse.
                        Am scribbling this on a drum head in the rebel entrenchments, thrown up to prevent
                                    our troops from crossing the Rappahannock.
                        
                                    More anon. Truly, yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                        P.S.—The following are the casualties in Co. G:
                                    Killed—Adam Shultz. Wounded—Corporal Piety, slightly; Corporal
                                    Lynn, slightly; Louis Sattler, left hand; Michael Shank, severely in thigh.
                                Prock.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            I COMPLETE MY NORMAL TRAINING AND GO TO ELKHART
               *
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            Having taught five terms in my native county,1 I went to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in September, 1895, to begin my last year's work in the Indiana State Normal
                    School. While teaching, I had found it possible to do enough work in the Normal School to enable me
                    to complete the course in another year.2 The school was not an old one when I
                    first enrolled as a student in February, 1891, having first opened its doors to students in January,
                    1870. The first President, William A. Jones, performed with a master-hand.3 For
                    a generation the impress of this man's educational notions was clearly evident. Resigning
                    in 1879, President Jones was succeeded by George P. Brown who remained until 1885. In this year
                    began the presidency of William Woods Parsons, who really thought of himself as the successor of the
                    first instead of the second head of the institution.
            The period of President Parsons lasted to 1921, but his presidency covered several fairly well marked
                    stages of development. The first, a renaissance of the Jones règime, was plainly on yet
                    when I became a student, but was giving way to a second before my senior year. In the early years
                    under President Parsons, a remarkable unity permeated the faculty. All held to similar educational
                    notions whether Hegelian or not. The most forceful members of the group had been trained in the
                    Normal School in the days of President Jones or had accepted his ideals. President Parsons and
                    Vice-president Howard Sandison were for years untiring students, and they were joined by others in
                    the study of works on education, but 
                  
                     * The first chapter of this autobiography appeared in the
                            issue of March, 1988, and an additional chapter has been published in each of the five
                            succeeding! quarterly issues. The present is the seventh chapter or installment.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Carroll County
                            , an agricultural county of north central Indiana. I taught three terms in
                            country schools, served as principal of the schools at Yeoman for one term, and then for one
                            term at 
                                Camden
                            . Regular terms were then either six or seven months. The day of consolidated
                            schools was near at hand, but had not yet come. A few pupils from the surrounding country
                            came to town to attend school both at Yeoman and Camden. Only two or three high school
                            courses could be given at either of these places, but I made a small beginning in each
                            school.
                  
                     2 The institution, now Indiana State Teachers College, was for many
                            years the Indiana State Normal School. I completed five quarters of work prior to September,
                            1898, which enabled me, by earning some extra credit, to finish the three-year course for
                            high school graduates in June, 1896. There were no summer sessions until after I was
                            graduated.
                  
                     3 See Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1934),
                            XXX, 24–54, for an article, "President William A. Jones,"
                            dealing with the founding and early development of the school. The article was written by
                            John Donaldson (now dead) who was a student in the days of President Jones.
               
                     especially in the study of the philosophers. They also read and
                    delved into the meaning of the plays of Shakespeare, the poems of Browning, the essays of Emerson,
                    Dante's Inferno,
                    
                        Milton
                    's Paradise Lost, and many other literary masterpieces. This
                    unusual faculty was not made up of men and women gathered from eastern Universities, but of persons
                    filled with the spirit of William A. Jones who sincerely believed that they were a chosen few that
                    were to give light to the educational world.
            In time I came to know well several of this masterful group of teachers, and I often wondered what
                    places they might have filled had they studied in eastern or foreign universities. Certainly the
                    parts played by them would have been quite different had they been students of more tangible things
                    on the frontiers of knowledge, instead of trying to unravel the secrets of human development by
                    years of introspection joined with a study of logic, literature and philosophy.
            My teachers during my first term in the Normal School included Albert R. Charman (educational
                    psychology), Mary J. Anderson (English grammar), Elizabeth Long (arithmetic), and Arnold Tompkins
                    (reading). The last three subjects were in the field of the "common branches", but
                    if these subjects were ever taught in an uncommon manner, it was in the Indiana State Normal School
                    of my student days and before. A fundamental belief was that teachers must be grounded in the common
                    school subjects, and also that a knowledge of these branches would serve as a firm foundation on
                    which to build should one continue his education.
            Every student was required to take work in English grammar. The system taught in the Normal School
                    was quite unique. The attempt was made to relate every thing to the idea behind the word and to the
                    thought behind the sentence. Defining terms, classifying words and expressions, and analyzing
                    sentences furnished mental gymnastics beyond the capacity of many students. Far more students fell
                    by the wayside in grammar courses than in any other subject. I enjoyed my work with Miss Anderson
                    and I remember her as a woman of intelligence and culture. Miss Long, who later became the wife of
                    the Librarian of the institution, was alert, efficient and kindly, though somewhat eccentric. My
                    first psychology teacher was a fine, honest man. The head of the department  was Vice-president Sandison, and no man ever had a more faithful
                    understudy than did he in Albert R. Charman.
            Arnold Tompkins, in later years President, successively, of the Normal University at
                            
                  Bloomington, Illinois
               , and of the 
                        Cook County
                     Normal School in 
                        Chicago
                    , had recently become professor of reading, rhetoric and literature. He had been on the
                    staff of the Normal School of DePauw University, and had lost his position along with William H.
                    Mace when President J. P. D. John decided to abolish the Normal School of DePauw in 1890.4 Professor Tompkins was an inspiring teacher, and students who sat in his
                    classes could never forget him. He was an interpreter of life, and during all the years since I sat
                    at his feet, I have recognized my deep indebtedness to him.
            Tompkins was a poet-philosopher with interests outside his subject. He could not and did not avoid
                    giving attention to the ideas that motivated the Normal School and its work. A clash of conceptions
                    brought about his dismissal in the spring of 1893. I was not in school at any time during the
                    academic year 189–893, and had no part in what transpired, but the institution passed
                    through a real crisis. A professor, regarded as a disturber, lost his place, but the Normal School
                    was never the same again. The student body and faculty were profoundly stirred and the
                    "revolution of 1893" led to a period of tolerance in sharp contrast to what had
                    preceded. The "czarship" of the faculty came to an end, and the man at the head of
                    the school became a wiser President, proud of his liberalism.
            In the years following 1893, new men were added to the faculty, several of whom were mainly
                    interested in their subjects with little concern about teaching problems. During the year
                    189–896,1 could plainly see that the Normal School was in a state of transition. Dryer,
                    Curry, Kelso, Rettger, Wisely and Stalker were members of the dominant group, while Sandison and
                    Kemp were at the climax of their careers.5
                    
                  
                     4 This change effected by President John at DePauw University is
                            briefly treated in Dr. William W. Sweet, Indiana Asbury-DePauw University
                            (Cinn., 1987), 156. During his last year at DePauw, Arnold Tompkins was Dean of the
                            "Normal School" having succeeded Dean Samuel S. Parr. William H. Mace was
                            professor of geography. Both Mrs. Tompkins and Mrs. Mace also taught in the "Normal
                            Schoolquot;.
                  
                     5 Dr. Charles R. Dryer was professor of geography; Charles Madison
                            Curry, of reading and literature; Oscar L. Kelso, of mathematics; Louis J. Rettger, of
                            biology; John B. Wisely, of English grammar and composition; and Francis M. Stalker, of
                            mental science and methods. Professor Howard Sandison worked out an elaborate system of
                            educational! psychology and methods and was for some years the most widely known member of
                            the faculty. Elwood W. Kemp read history extensively for years. He was a serious and
                            thoughtful teacher who required much real work of his students. It was not long after 1896
                            that Professor Kemp became absorbed in the problem of teaching history in relation to the
                            "stream" of human development from the earliest times. Unfortunately, he
                            devoted the rest of his teaching career to the method of teaching history in which he had
                            come to believe so strongly. 
               
                     Changes in faculty and in the spirit of the institution
                    continued to come, and when I returned in 1908, as a member of the faculty, the third stage of the
                    long règime of President Parsons was well under way.
            During my student days in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , there was a term reception each quarter, a lecture course (which included musical
                    numbers) each year, and certain functions during the commencement season. Besides these social
                    affairs, the churches provided occasional student receptions, but otherwise students looked after
                    their own entertainment. There were no dances and no inter-collegiate athletic events save a few
                    base-ball games in the spring and a state track and field meet annually. The latter was quite an
                    extensive and interesting event even in the ‘nineties. There was no dean of women, no
                    dean of men, and no other dean. President Parsons taught a class in the history of philosophy and
                    education throughout each year, and Vice-President Sandison gave but a small part of his time to
                    executive duties. Before I left with my certificate of graduation, the office force was increased by
                    one hundred per cent which brought it up to two—Miss Minnie E. Hill, who had charge of
                    the records and collected fees, and Miss Emma Smith, a stenographer, who served as the
                    President's Secretary.
            When I entered the Normal School in the midst of the winter term of 1891, there was a total
                    enrollment of 421, which ran up to 770 in the spring term. The enrollment for the winter term of
                    189–896 was 534, which the spring influx increased to 1167. The number of graduates in
                    the class of June, 1896, was 102.6 The expenses of a student who did not earn
                    anything on the side were in a vast number of cases as low as forty dollars per quarter. Fifty
                    dollars was regarded as a bit extravagant, though some students spent seventy-five and more. In
                    boarding clubs, which were patronized by practically all students the rate for twenty-one meals
                    ranged from 
                  In his later years, he no longer taught history, except incidentally, using all his time
                            and energy to show students how to teach the stages passed through by the human race on the
                            "Road from Long Ago Till Nowquot;. Of the men listed as active members of the
                            faculty in 189–896. Curry, Rettger, Wisely and Kemp are still living.
                  
                     6 The number graduated in 1895 was 102, exactly equal to the number
                            graduated in 1896. In all previous years, except 1893 and 1894, the number was never more
                            than fifty. Among those who were graduated with me in 1896 were: Lotus D. Coffman, J. Howard
                            Wagner, Guy M. Wilson, and Mabel Bonsall. All of them have been long engaged in educational
                            work. Sketches of the first three may be found in Who's Who in
                                America. Miss Bonsall is professor of mathematics in the State Teachers College at
                            Bemidgi, 
                                Minnesota
                            . Also among the members of the class of 1896 were: Joe E. Kelley, a banker of 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , Indiana; Benjamin H. Scudder, Director of the Extension Division, Miami
                            University; D. Orland Coate, Professor of English in the State Teachers College of
                                    
                        LaCrosse, Wisconsin
                     ; Charles E. Talkington,
               
                     $1.75 to $2.50. Room rent varied from
                    five to ten dollars per month, with two in a room as a rule. Fuel (coal, at $2.00 per
                    ton) was usually furnished by the students as there were few furnaces. It is also true that there
                    were few houses equipped with bathrooms, among those in which students found rooms, although 
                        Terre Haute
                     was a city of over 30,000 in 1890.
            The clubs which in later years served some of the purposes fulfilled by fraternities for those who
                    desired to organize, such as the Ciceronian, Daedalian and Forum, had not come yet in the
                    ‘nineties. There were literary societies of the type common in colleges of an earlier
                    day, but they were on the wane. It was only by a great effort that one could be kept going after
                    being organized, and the debates held by such societies had become so thin that they were of little
                        value.7
            
            As late as 1895, there were still large numbers of students who had never had the privilege of
                    attending high school. In fact, the period of rapid multiplication of high schools in Indiana did
                    not come till after 1900. There was still a three-year course for all comers of proper age that
                    could be completed by high-school graduates in two years, and a four-year course that such graduates
                    could complete in three years. It was the last named course that I completed in June, 1896. At the
                    time of graduation I had delved into a good many subjects, but I was not very far advanced in any
                    field. I hardly knew whether to apply for work as a teacher of mathematics, English, or history.
                    Like many others completing college, university or normal courses in that day, I hoped soon to
                    become the principal of a high school and later a superintendent of city schools somewhere. The job
                    that came to me was unexpected. It was a sort of general assistantship in the 
                        Elkhart
                     High School, where, for a time, I was required to teach freshman science and
                    mathematics. My courses included arithmetic, algebra, physiology, and physical geography, with some
                    English work on the side. Three years passed with little change. Then 
                  
                            Superintendent of 
                                    Bartholomew
                                 Couty (Indana) Schools and former Superintendent of the Indiana School
                                School for Boys; and John F. Nuner, Superintendent of the 
                                    South Bend
                                 Schools when he died.
                            While a student in the Normal School, I knew at one time or another many who have since
                                achieved distinction hut who were not members of the class of 1896. Among them may be
                                listed: William W. Black, William J. Moenkhaus; Gay Berry, Douglas C. Ridgely, Walter P.
                                Morgan, Gary D. Landis, Clarence B. Wilson, Edward N. Canine, Laurence McTurnan, and
                                George C. Cole.
                        
                  
                     7 It was during the year 189–896 that the school paper, The Normal Advance, was established. For a number of years this paper was
                            published as a monthly during the regular school year. Later it was published weekly for
                            several years, when it was succeeded by the Indiana Statesman. J. Howard
                            Wagner was the first Editor of the Advance and the
                            writer was the Associate Editor. Eight issues appeared during; the initial
                            year. I still retain my personal file of the Advance for that year.
               
                     I was given only mathematics classes with the exception of an
                    occasional class in American history. In my fifth year, the department of literature and history was
                    divided and I became head of the department of history. I took up this work in the fall of 1900, and
                    since that time have taught no courses outside of the social studies, save for a single quarter,
                    when I taught English grammar while filling a temporary appointment.8
            
            
               
                        Elkhart
                     was a fine little city in 1896, having a population of close to 15,000. It had grown
                    rapidly and the income of the school city had not kept pace with the increase in the number of
                    children of school age. Teachers were respected and well received by the people, but they were
                    poorly paid. I started on a stipend of sixty dollars per month for nine months. Rents were low and
                    food prices very reasonable, but fuel was relatively high and the winters long. My young wife and I
                    were happy in 
                        Elkhart
                    , and I found pleasure in my work, but how we balanced the budget in any of the five
                    years from 1896 to 1901, I cannot now understand.
            I well remember three charming ladies who called on me in my class-room, at the end of the day,
                    during my second week in the fall of 1896. They came to sell me two tickets to the annual lecture
                    course of which the city was quite proud.9 The tickets were only a dollar and a
                    half each for a course of eight or ten numbers. Mrs. Lynch and I had been in school during the
                    preceding year, and, though I had earned about ten dollars a week for a period of two months during
                    the summer, our funds were very low by the time we were established. Having arranged with one of the
                    best grocery stores in the city to pay at the end of each month, we hoped that our little supply of
                    money might suffice for absolutely necessary cash purposes till pay-day which was to come at the end
                    of four weeks of teaching. To hand out three of my few guarded dollars meant something very serious,
                    but there were the three "uplifters" smiling and talking and what could I do.
                    After the dear ladies had departed with my cash, I looked at the two pieces of red cardboard that I
                    held in my hand with a feeling akin to despair. They represented a lot of culture for a young
                    instructor and his helpmeet, so perhaps 
                  
                     8 During the spring quarter of the year 190–902, when I was
                            a student at Indiana University, I dropped out and went to 
                                Terre Haute
                             to teach grammar In the Normal School for twelve weeks.
                  
                     9 Lecture courses like this one were common in that period. The 
                                Elkhart
                             course consisted of both lectures and musical entertainments.
               
                     the bargain was a good one. I could not see it in that light at
                    the moment, but my loyal partner in poverty declared that we could make out somehow and we did.
            The social life of 
                        Elkhart
                     did not engulf us during my first run of five years as instructor in the high school.
                    The reasons need not be recorded here. My teaching program was strenuous enough and there were
                    numerous extra school duties. We had no football or basketball in that period, but developed some
                    track and field activities, and it fell to my lot to look after the boys in such sports. Both Mrs.
                    Lynch and I attended church regularly and performed more than a full round of duties. During those
                    five busy years we did not tie up our talents in a napkin, but used them to the limit. There was
                    plenty of experience in the life that we led, but not enough opportunity for growth. High schools,
                    colleges and universities employ too many teachers who are required to work under conditions that
                    necessitate a dissipation of energy. School authorities and the public have never been properly
                    educated in regard to the shiftlessness of over-burcening teachers with duties that prevent them
                    from rendering the best possible service to the school and the community.
            When I became a teacher in the 
                        Elkhart
                     High School in 1896. it was already one of the best in the state. There was no junior
                    high school, though the work of the eighth year was organized on the departmental plan. The high
                    school work extended through four years and there were two courses, the Latin Course and the English
                    Course. There were about 200 students in the High School in 1896, with three or four times as many
                    students in the freshman as in the senior class. By 1900, the number of students had increased to
                    about 400.10 The principal of the High School was Sylvester B. McCracken who had
                    filled the position since September 1892. He was an able man who had, before spending two years at
                    Indiana University, served as principal of the Delphi High School for several years.11 A strong and very loyal group of teachers served with him. Principal McCracken was
                    devoted to his 
                  
                     10 The fact that the high school attendance increased so rapidly in
                            the late ‘nineties was partly due to the long depression that followed the panic
                            of 1893 and partly to the growth of the city, but more to the fact that high schools became
                            more popular the country over. In more recent times high school attendance has Increased at
                            an even faster rate than at the turn of the century.
                  
                     11 Mr. McCracken was principal of he Delphi High School daring my
                            period as a student there. In the account of my high school days, Indiana
                                Magarine of History (Dec., 1986), XXXII, 41–21, there is further matter
                            pertaining to him.
               
                     job. He was a fine teacher and a determined and watchful
                    disciplinarian. He had natural qualities that fitted him well for the management of high school boys
                    and girls, but he made too much of a task of it. The result was that there was usually some
                    tenseness in the atmosphere which caused principal, teachers and students to carry on under a
                    strain. This was scarcely perceptible at times, but often it was all too apparent. Nevertheless good
                    work was accomplished, though too many, rather than too few, dropped out of school after the
                    freshman or sophomore year.
            The Superintendent of Schools, D. W. Thomas, was a man with a sense of humor and a large fund of
                    common sense. He guided his teachers with tact and showed a friendly interest in their problems. He
                    recognized the sterling worth of Principal McCracken and served as a shock-absorber for him on
                    numerous occasions, often when that excellent schoolman knew nothing about it. An irate parent,
                    sometimes a father but more often a mother, coming to the office of Superintendent Thomas found him
                    always ready to listen. He once said to me: "When a parent who is deeply stirred about
                    something comes to see me, I cross my legs, lean back in my chair and give attention to whatever the
                    visitor may wish to say. I do not argue nor interrupt. In time any individual tends to run out of
                    something to say. When this stage is reached, it is generally possible to talk the matter over and
                    reach a sensible conclusion." Supt. Thomas never interfered with me. He gave me kindly
                    advice and support when needed and deserved. We became close friends and stood together through
                    thick and thin.
            Just why, I do not know, but in those years when I was but a humble and poorly paid instructor in the 
                        Elkhart
                     High School, there was a Northern Indiana Teachers Association and another in southern
                    Indiana in addition to the State Association. The latter met during the Christmas holidays, and the
                    others in the early spring. My recollection is that the Northern Association grew to such large
                    proportions that it overshadowed both of the others. I did not, of course, attend the Southern
                    Association but generally made the State Association and always the Northern Association. The
                    meeting of the organization last named was held at 
                        Elkhart
                     in 1897,  at 
                        Kokomo
                     in 1898,12 and the next three years at 
                  Fort Wayne, Logansport
               , and Anderson, respectively. I attended each of these five
                    meetings and Mrs. Lynch missed only those at 
                        Kokomo
                     and Anderson.13 That was truly a period when living costs were low,
                    else most of the teachers could not have survived.14
            
            The years of the last decade of the nineteenth century are commonly referred to as the "gay
                    ‘nineties", which should not be taken literally. The expression really means
                    that people of today find amusement in the styles, the pastimes, and the serious activities of the
                    years that immediately preceded the advent of automobiles, moving pictures, airplanes and radios. I
                    was a young man in the ‘nineties and know from personal experience what life was like. I
                    bought a top-buggy and a new set of single-harness in 1893, and did much driving until I was married
                    and left home to live on my own. After that I did not again possess a private means of conveyance
                    until I purchased a "Model T" Ford car in 1916. The family that could maintain a
                    horse and buggy or a carriage and team in city or town really belonged to the aristocracy. Strange
                    to say, this is not true of the automobile.
            One of the strangest features of the ‘nineties was the proneness of men, young men
                    included, to wear frock coats not only on Sundays and at social functions, but anywhere at any time.
                    I was first fitted out in a suit with a cutaway coat in the spring of 1888 when I finished high
                    school. From that year until 1900, I purchased, at different times, four additional suits with frock
                    coats. I also purchased suits with regulation sack coats, but, like everyone else, I wore the frock
                    coats on the street, in the school room and everywhere. For a time, all the young men that I knew
                    who tried to dress well affected the straight frock coat. This looked like a
                    "Prince-Albert" coat, but was single-breasted. I fell for the idea and ordered
                    such a suit of blue-black clay-worsted cloth in the spring of 1892. These coats, for good and
                    sufficient 
                  
                     12 While at 
                                Kokomo
                            , in the spring of 1898, I saw the automobile, or horseless carriage (open
                            buggy, in style), which 
                                Elwood
                             Haynes drove through the streets of that city.
                  
                     13 These annual meetings occurred at the end of March or beginning of
                            April. Sometimes the weather was pleasant, sometimes vry bad. On the night of March 31,
                            1899. a heavy sleet storm visited 
                                Fort Wayne
                             and, on the next morning, there was a covering of tiny white pellets a foot
                            deep over all the streets and sidewalks. There was no wind and the air did not feel
                            uncomfortable.
                  
                     14 A vast proportion of the grade teachers of the state received about
                            forty dollars per month, while salaries in all but a very few high schools rangd from sixty
                            to one hundred dollars per month. Teachers, other than principals, sometimes received as
                            much as $1200 a year in a few cities, such as 
                        Indianapolis, South
                            Bend
                      and 
                                Richmond
                            .
               
                     reasons, did not remain popular very long, and, as did most of
                    my friends, I paid a tailor to transform my coat into a cuta-way, after enduring it for about a
                    year, and wore it out in that form. Men carried umbrellas not only to keep off rain, but as a
                    protection from the sun in the nineties. A young man was not well equipped without a good looking
                    gentleman's umbrella. I confess that I tried to keep up with this requirement and remember
                    that I did occasionally walk along the street alone with my umbrella raised on a hot day. Now the
                    man is hard to find who has any umbrella save his auto top, and, when one is seen carrying an
                    umbrella in the rain, is almost invariably belongs to his wife. It takes a lot of courage, or maybe
                    it is a lot of meekness, for a man to go forth alone with a short-handled parasol covered with
                    variegated silk, but there are some men like that.
            It was not my intention to teach so long before continuing my education, but, being somewhat in debt
                    when I went to 
                        Elkhart
                     in 1898, there seemed no way to avoid it. To pay a debt, or to save money after the
                    debt was paid, was a slow process on the salary of a high school teacher in the
                    ‘nineties. There was little chance to earn anything during summer vacations, but I was
                    usually able to keep even by working either on the farm of my father or that of my father-in-law.
                    One summer, I went forth to sell encyclopedias, for which I hope to be forgiven eventually,
                    especially since I did not succeed in disposing of a single set. During my fifth year in 
                        Elkhart
                    , I decided that I must not miss my destiny for lack of education. Finding that the
                    goodwife would stand by me, I resigned my "position" and entered Indiana
                    University in the fall of 1901, resolved to complete the next step and obtain an A.B. degree,
                    regardless of the debt which must accumulate.
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: John D. Barnhart is an Associate professor of history
                    in 
                        Louisiana Statey
                     University, 
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
               . Winfred A. Harbison is a professor of
                    history in 
                        Wayne
                     University, 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               . H. S. K. Bartholomew is a retired
                    newspaper man who operates a fruit farm near 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. William P. Alexander is Curator of the Museum, Buffalo Museum of Science,
                            
                  Buffalo, New
                            York
               . Max Ehrmann is a well-known poet of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to com plete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices
                    above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write
                    to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                  
                     * Volume I, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
                  Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                  Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                  Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
                  
                     * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                  Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                  
                     * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                  
                     * Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1922).
                  Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                  Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
               
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 190–913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files. 
                  183–833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–835. Wanted 3 copies.
                  183–837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  183–840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  184–850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  185–854. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted: Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; Vol. III,
                    Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 189–899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (190–929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy
                    Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for
                    any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at
                    $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            The Woodburn Family*
            
            The family of James Albert Woodburn is of Scotch-Irish ancestry on both sides of the
                    family—Ulster Scots, who moved into northern 
                        Ireland
                     in successive migrations from the time of Cromwell. On his mother's side, the
                    Hemphills, Millens, Moffetts, and Chestnuts, came from 
                        County Antrim
                    . The Woodburns came from 
                        County Derry
                    , near Coleraine.
            These Scotch-Irish came to America in several waves of migration from 1715 to 1775, though some came
                    later. A few reached 
                        New England
                    , some landed at 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               , but the great bulk of them landed at
                            
                  Newcastle, Pennsylvania
               , and made their way gradually to the interior of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . From thence many migrated southward through the Shenandoah Valley
                    of 
                        Virginia
                     and settled in the Piedmont region of that state and the Carolinas. They were hardy
                    frontiersman who later continued their migration toward the West. They served as a buffer between
                    the colonial settlement and hostile Indians. Out of this stock came such leaders, as Stonewall
                    Jackson, Andrew Jackson, John C. Calhoun, Sam Houston, James K. Polk, the Robertsons in 
                        North Carolina
                     and the Breckinridges and the Blairs of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The early Scotch-Irish were a sturdy stock, being, for the most part, small farmers
                    and humble tillers of the soil. They usually disliked the British government, were Jeffersonian
                    Republicans in politics and Presbyterians in faith. Such was the racial element to which the family
                    belonged.
            James Woodburn, the first known Woodburn ancestor, was born in County! Derry, 
                        Ireland
                    , in 1748; came to America in 1767; married a widow, Sarah (McGill) McMurray, in 1775;
                    wandered about for a time without fixed habitation; had five children two of whom died in childhood;
                    and finally settled among the Rockey Creek Irish in 
                  Chester
                        County, South Carolina
               , where he died
                    on August 21, 1812. Sarah McGill Wood-burn was born in 
                  County
                        Down, Ireland
               , in November of 1746. She was
                    first married to William McMurray, and by him had 
                  
                     * It has been the privilege of the editor of Indiana
                            Geneology, Martha Tucker Morris, to select the information in this article from Woodburn History: Some Generations of a Family, in order to present the genealogy
                            of this family. A notice of the Woodburn History appeared in the June,
                            1937, issue of Indiana Magazine of History, 22–23. In the
                            September issue of 1936, 23–47, there is an article, "James Woodburn:
                            Hoosier Schoolmaster", by James Albert Woodburn.
               
                     five children by the time she was twenty-eight or twenty-nine
                    years of age. Sarah died July 31, 1815, aged 69.
            
                    
                        Children of James and Sarah (McGill) Woodburn:
                        
                     Elizabeth Woodburn—born May 4, 1777; m. Thomas Craig, Sept. 29, 1801; lived
                                in 
                                    Alabama
                                .
                     Margaret Woodburn—born Sept. 17, 1779; m. Matthew Johnson, Oct. 24, 1808.
                     Dorrance Woodburn—died May 26, 1784, aged 2 yrs., 4 mos., 3 wks., and 2
                                days.
                     Jean Woodburn—born June 4, 1784; died March, 1789, aged 4 yrs., 9 mos., 1
                                wk., 6 days.
                     Dorrance Woodburn2—born August 16, at Summerseat, 
                                    Georgia
                                ; m. Rachel Johnston, Dec. 3, 1807.
                  
                    
                
            Dorrance Beatty Woodburn, son of James, records his own birth as near 
                  Louisville, Georgia
               ,
                    August 16, 1786. He tells very little of his early life. It appears that he served two and a half
                    years in the war of 1812, enlisting a little over three months after the declaration of war and
                    being mustered out nearly three months after the negotiation of the peace. In the year 1823, or
                    before, Dorrance B. Woodburn began to have qualms of conscience about his membership in the
                    Associate Reformed Church. He was a diligent reader of the Bible, and to his mind human institutions
                    ought to conform to Bible standards. The question of slavery and the relation of the church to that
                    evil were now troubling his mind. It was probably in 1823, that he prepared a paper on
                    "Slavery in 
                        South Carolina
                    ," addressed to Rev. Hugh McMillan, pastor of the Reformed Presbyterian Church,
                    in 
                        Chester County
                    .
            The Reformed Presbyterians (Covenanters) admitted no slave-holders to their communion. Woodburn,
                    chiefly on this account, now cast his lot with them. Rev. Hugh McMillan and his new church elder
                    (Dorrance B. Woodburn) were active and bold enough in the anti-slavery cause to prepare and present
                    a petition on slavery to the 
                        South Carolina
                     Legislature. This old document, which is among the papers of Dorrance B. Woodburn,
                    bears no date, but it could not have been written later than 1825 or 1826.
            Dorrance B. Woodburn tells of his marriage on Dec. 3, 1807, in 
                        Chester
                     District, 
                        South Carolina
                    , to Rachel Johnston (born Nov. 4, 1788). He died near 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, on Oct. 21, 1856. His wife died earlier on May 7, 1848. He tells of the birth
                    of his children, nine in number (all born in Ches  ter
                    District). The record, including the dates of death, is here given: 
                        
                     John Johnston Woodburn—born Sept. 29, 1808; died near Blooming-ton, Ind.,
                                October 30, 1874, aged 66.
                     Sarah McGill Woodburn—born Sept. 23, 1810; died 1891, aged 81.
                     Cynthia Woodburn—born Oct. 6, 1812; died Nov. 27, 1868, aged 56.
                     Eliza Ann Woodburn—born January 21, 1815; died Dec. 26, 1862, slightly less
                                than 48.
                     James Woodburn—born Sept. 1, 1817; died Sept. 8, 1865, three days under 48.
                     William Woodburn—born March 21, 1820; died June 13, 1858, aged 38. (The
                                fifth to die in a family of eleven, within ten years, William was the head of the
                                household after his father's death in 1856. William Woodburn by his will, dated
                                April 7, 1858, left all his property to his four sisters. Witnessed by T. A. Wylie, and
                                W.S. Stormont.)
                     Margaret Woodburn—born Jan. 30, 1823; died Jan. 6, 1862; aged 39.
                     Matthew Walker Woodburn—born Jan. 21, 1825; died Jan. 17, 1855, slightly
                                under 30.
                     Mary Lucinda Woodburn—born Nov. 6, 1828; died May 31, 1854, aged 26; m. to
                                William Crowe, in fall of 1850; went to 
                                    Princeton
                                , Ind., with her husband; returned to 
                                    Bloomington
                                 in 1852. (William Crowe, killed by automobile, July 28, 1923. One child,
                                Louise Evelyn.)
                  
                    
            
            From this large family that came to Indiana in 1830, there are few descendants. Six of the children
                    of Dorrance B. Woodburn were never married: Sarah, Cynthia, Eliza, William, Margaret and Matthew.
                    John Johnston Woodburn married Rosanna Harbison on July 18, 1837. She died on Aug. 25, 1867. They
                    had one son, Thomas Craig Woodburn, who was born Nov. 3, 1839.
            James Woodburn married Martha Jane Hemphill, daughter of James K. Hemphill, on April 16, 1846. The
                    Hemphill family had moved to Indiana in 1832 from 
                        Chester
                     District, 
                        South Carolina
                    . Martha Jane, the oldest child, was born in 
                        Chester
                     District on December 7, 1827.
            
                    
                        Children of James and Martha Jane (Hemphill) Woodburn:
                        
                     Laura Adelaide Woodburn—born Jan. 15, 1847; died in Benson, Minn., Oct.
                                1920, aged 73.
                     Walter Emmett Woodburn—born Feb. 7, 1849; died in 
                                    Bloomington
                                , May 6, 1906, aged 57.
                     Theophilus Wylie Woodburn—born Feb. 11, 1852; died in Benson, Minn., July
                                12, 1912, aged 60.
                     Ida Lizzie Woodburn—born Oct. 21, 1854; died in Monmouth, III., June 30,
                                1927, aged 72.
                     James Albert Woodburn—born Nov. 30, 1856.
                     Grace Helena Woodburn—born Oct. 23, 1864; died Feb. 27, 1922, aged
                            57.
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            The Vancleave Family of 
                        Orange County
                    
            
            EDWARD S. HARVEY
            
            Benjamin Vancleave was the son of John Vancleave and Mary Shepherd. He was born about 1771, as he is
                    said to have been ten years of age at the time his mother and little sister were killed by Indians
                    on September 14, 1781, at the Battle of 
                        Boone
                    's Defeat. He was married in 
                  Shelby
                        County, Kentucky
               , on January 1,
                    1801, to Sarah Kerns, daughter of Peter and Anna Jordan Kerns. Sarah Kerns had a sister, Marjory,
                    who married John Vancleave, a cousin of Benjamin. I'eter Kerns and his family came from 
                        Ireland
                     when Marjory was seven months old, and, in later years, they came with Marjory and her
                    husband to 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana. They are buried on the old farm, a few miles south of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .
            Benjamin Vancleave entered land in Stampers Creek Township, 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, in 1813, where he settled with his family in 1814. A county history states
                    that Benjamin Vancleave served on the first Grand Jury in 
                        Orange County
                    , which met April 8, 1816, at the house of William Lindley.1 From
                    the same work, we find that sometime in the ‘fifties Benjamin Vancleave was fatally
                    injured at a barn-raising, near Millersburg, from a falling of some of the heavy, timbers. Death
                    occurred in a few days.2 James Vancleave, who lived in 
                        Vernon
                     Township, 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, and whose parents were Benjamin and Sarah Carnes [Kerns] Vancleave, was born
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    , in the year 1810. When four years old he came with his parents to 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana.
            
                    
                        Marriage Records of the Vancleave Family:
                        
                     Aaron Vancleave—m. Nancy Galloway, June 5, 1827.
                     David Vancleave (son of Aaron, son of John)—m. Sarah Jane Van-cleave
                                (daughter of John, the son of John Vancleave), Aug. 16, 18313
                     
                     James Vancleave (son of Benjamin and Sarah Kerns Vancleave)4—m. Mary Lynn, Mar. 14, 1833.
                     Sarah Vancleave—m. Jackson McCoy, Apr. 13, 1837. 
                           
                              * The address of Edward S. Harvey is 418 East 
                                            Washington
                                         Street. 
                                            Lebanon
                                        , Indiana. Members of the Vancleave family may wish to write Mr.
                                        Harvey, as he has been compiling records of this family many years.
                           
                              1
                                        History of 
                                    Lawrence, Orange
                                  and 
                                                Washington Counties
                                            
                               (
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1844), 446.
                           
                              2
                                        Ibid., 408.
                           
                              3 David Yancleave and Sarah Jane Vancleave were first
                                        cousins, each being a grandchild of John Vancleave, Sr.
                           
                              4 The name Kerns is also found with the
                                        spelling Cames.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                     Elizabeth Jane Vancleave—m. George Rector, May 29, 1838.
                     Anna Vancleave—m. John P. Rector, Feb. 20, 1839.
                     Priscilla Vancleave—m. Aaron W. Remy, Aug. 30, 1839.
                     Benjamin Vancleave—m. Margaret Ann Galloway, June 14, 1844.
                     Ruth Vancleave—m. James Warren, Dec. 4, 1854.
                     Jas. A. Vancleave5—m. Elizabeth M. Allen, Mar. 7, 1865.
                     James L. Vancleave—m. Ruth Ann Spear, Apr. 22, 1865.
                     George Vancleave—m. Jane Kearby, Feb. 28, 1873.
                     Jacob K. Vancleave (son of James and Eliza Vancleave)—m. Armitta B.
                                Hutchinson, Jan. 19, 1889.
                     Clorinda Vancleave—m. John T. Long, Apr. 29, 1889.
                     Flora B. Vancleave—m. Frank E. McLane, Oct. 15, 1889.
                     Mary Vancleave—m. James W. Bishop, Apr. 4, 1891.
                     Martha B. Vancleave—m. Wm. H. Martin, Nov. 11, 1891.
                     Edlward B. Vancleave—m. Dessie D. Lindley, Jan. 27, 1893.
                     Emma F. Vancleave—m. Fred O. Trinkle, Feb. 6, 1894.
                     Nannie E. Vancleave—m. James A. Martin, Jan. 5, 1984.
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  5 James A. and James L. Vancleave were probably cousins.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 36: PAUL FAMILY
            Michael Paul was born in 
                        Holland
                     and died in Hardin Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , in 1801. He married Ann Parker and they had seven children. Among them was Peter, who
                    died in 1784 and who married Eunice Cooper. There was another son, John, and also a son Jonathan who
                    was born at Redstone Fort, 
                        Penn.
                     Jonathan, who died in Ind., married Eunice Griffin. There was an Edmund Paul who
                    married Rachel Gray, probably in 
                        Ky.
                     He is buried in the Gray Graveyard near 
                  Bloomington, Monroe
                Co., Ind. Peter and
                    John Paul lived near 
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               , about 1808. Then they moved to Ind. Edmund
                    Paul removed his family to 
                        Monroe
                     Co., Ind., about 1835. Who was the father of Edmund Paul? Any records of this Paul
                    family will be appreciated.—C.H.S.
            Query 37: DAVIDSON FAMILY
            William Davidson, who was born about 1800, died in 1829, near 
                        Cannelton
                    , Ind. He married Mary Antoinette Hawley, daughter of John Hawley who lived near
                        Lake Champlain. Who were the parents of William Davidson? I would like also
                    to know the parentage of John Hawley—C.H.S.
            Query 38: TAYLOR FAMILY
            Rawleigh Taylor was born Dec. 26, 1763, and died Jan. 2, 1847. He is buried at Pleasant
                        Valley, 
                        Ohio
                    . He married: (1) Elizabeth Waddell, daughter of John and Elizabeth Waddell on Sept, 18,
                    1792; (2) Elizabeth Crawford (Croffard) about 1814. She was born in 1793, and died on March 17,
                    1876, in Rush Co., Ind. The children of the first marriage (to Elizabeth Waddell) are believed to
                    be: Alpheus, Judith, Beaufort, Zachary, Rolley, George Waddell, Wilfred Asbury, William, John and
                    James. Children of the second marriage: Thomas (born 1815, married 1850); Emily Cassidy (of Mt.
                    Sterling, 
                        Ky.
                    ); Elijah; Samuel (born 1819, married Abigail Ross, of 
                        Ohio
                    ); Elizabeth; Lucinda; Nancy; Sarah Ann; Rachel J.; and Henry. About 1831 Rawleigh
                    (Rolley, Rolland) and Hannah, with all their children then living migrated to the vicinity of
                        Pleasant Valley, near 
                  Zanesvile, Ohio
               , where
                    Rawleigh died. He was buried in the graveyard of the Baptist Church, near the Pleasant
                        Valley Post Office. In 1858 Hannah and most of her family removed to the vicinity of
                         Homer, in Rush Co., Ind., where Thomas, her eldest son had
                    gone in 1856. Hannah died there as given above. Rawleigh Taylor was living with Charles Taylor, of
                    Fauquier Co., 
                        Va.
                    , from the time he was 21 until he married in 1792. Sons of the first marriage (Zachary,
                    George, Wilfred and John) left 
                        Va.
                     for 
                        Ky.
                     about 1830. William settled in 
                        Ohio
                    , then removed to 
                        Iowa
                    . His brother Rolley is said to have descendants near 
                  Lawrence, Kansas
               . Many
                    descendants of the second marriage are living in Rush Co., Ind. Rawleigh Taylor had a middle name,
                    Alexander, which was seldom used, and the second wife insisted on using the name, which may help
                    relatives interested in the Taylor family of 
                        Virginia
                    . Wanted the parentage and ancestry of Rawleigh Taylor—J.H.T.
            Query 39: GILMAN FAMILY
            Michael Gilman was born on Sept. 20, 1810, in 
                        York
                     Co., 
                        Penn.
                     He lived in Indiana for some time prior to 1850 at 
                  Milford, Decatur
                Co. He moved to 
                        Iowa
                     in 1852 and died in Des Moines on Apr. 11, 1891. He had a brother John Gilman, a
                    minister (probably a Lutheran, as he is said to have preached in the German language). The name of
                    the first wife of Michael Gilman is not known. Their children were James and Elizabeth. Michael
                    married (2) Sally Ann Feeser (born April 5, 1815) on May 7, 1855, in 
                  Gettysburg, Penn.
                Their children were Henry, William, Mary Jane, Annie and Andrew (twins),
                    John, and Martha. Want all information known of this Gilman family, including parentage of Michael
                    and John Gilman.—E.G.H.
            Query 40: CLARK FAMILY
            James Clark and his wife Elizabeth were living in 
                        Fayette
                     Co., 
                        Ky.
                    , when their daughter Elizabeth was born in 1793. This daughter married Robert Hurt
                    Prewitt, who was born in Jessamine Co. 
                        Ky.
                    , in 1791, and died in Nov., 1845, in Clark Co. Ind., where he lived after 1828. He is
                    buried in the cemetery at 
                        Hamburg
                    , near 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind. I would like the inscription from his tombstone to verify the date of his death
                    as given here. His wife, Elizabeth Clark Prewitt, died in Davies Co., Ind., and is said to be buried
                    at 
                        Odon
                    . Proof of this fact is wanted, and all information possible of her parents, James Clark
                    and his wife Elizabeth.—L.P.G.
            Query 41: KERN FAMILY
            William Kern was born in N.C., probably in Rowan Co.  He married
                    Susannah, daughter of John and Catherine Coward Sears, who were natives of N.C. William and his wife
                    were living in Harrison Co., Ind., in 1816, when their fourth child (Noah) was born. Noah married
                    Eveline Hurd in 
                        Lawrence
                     Co., Ind., in 1836. Three brothers of Noah were: Benjamin, Ezra, and Peter. Is there
                    any record indicating when and where William Kern was born and when he died with names of his
                    parents?—M.K.
            Answer to Query 8 (Sept. 1936, p. 310, I.G.) John W. Goodson, who married in Crawford Co., Ind.,
                    Elizabeth (Faith) Peterson, a widow, on Mar. 26, 1867, was the son of John (Jack) Goodson and wife
                    Matilda. He was born in 
                        Tenn.
                     in 1801 (Census of 1860, Crawford Co., Ind.) His wife was born in 
                        Ky.
                     in 1812. Their children were: Jefferson, John, Mary (or Polly, who married David
                    Markley), William, Harriet, Harrison, Harvey, Thomas, George, and Daniel. John W. Goodson was a
                    Civil War soldier from Crawford Co., Ind., and all his brothers served, with the exception of the
                    youngest two who were not old enough for service. After much research, the grave of John W. Good-son
                    was located in the Yates Cemetery, Yates Chapel (now Christian Chapel) which is in southeast
                    Grantsburg, Crawford Co., Ind. There is no tombstone at this grave, but proof was given as to the
                    site, by a cousin, Buckley Goodson, still living, who assisted with the burial. In this same
                    cemetery, the grave of an aunt, Elizabeth Goodson Turner, has also been located. John W. Goodson was
                    born in 1834 (Census of 1870, Crawford Co.). He died about 1890, two years before the death of his
                    wife, Elizabeth Faith (born Nov. 15, 1828; died June 7, 1892; buried in Crawford Co., Grants-burg
                    cemetery). I am now searching for the grandparents of John W. Goodson, the maiden name of his
                    mother, Matilda Goodson, his connections with the 
                        Virginia
                     family, and his early ancestry. Will be glad to correspond with descendants of the
                    Goodson Family of Southwestern 
                        Va.
                     and 
                        Tenn.
                    —Miss Ione V. Goodson, 614 Belmont Ave., Apt. A, 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Answer to Query 16 (March 1937, p. 107, E.E.C.) I am working on the Elmore line, and may have some
                    records that will help answer this query. I would be glad to exchange records. Archelaus Elmore was
                    the son of Thomas Elmore.  The Elmore Family lived in 
                        Va.
                     and N.C. They were Quakers, as were the connecting families of Mams and
                    Sanders.—Mrs. Chas. H. Sturtz, 3014 East Sixth Street. 
                        Kansas City
                    , Mo.
            Answer to Query 20 (March, 1937, p. 108, M.I.H.) Something of the Amos Morris Family of 
                        Dearborn
                     Co., Ind., was found in the "Indiana Genealogy" column of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star of June 19, 1927 (Query 289). Amos Morris married Joanna Lautz in 
                        Penn.
                     They came west, stopping at 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Ohio
               , for a time, but settled in 
                        Dearborn
                     Co., Ind. They had sixteen children, eight sons and eight daughters. The sons were:
                    Andrew, George, Tyler, Isaac, Lot, James, Theodore and Huston. Isaac was born in 
                        Dearborn
                     Co. in 1824, and married Hannah Hollingsworth (niece of Joseph and Nathan
                    Hollingsworth) in 
                        Richmond
                    , Ind., in 1847. The Morris and Hollingsworth families left Ind. soon after this
                    marriage and settled in Oquawka, Henderson Co., Ill. (Answer in Star, July 3, 1927—128).
                    The daughters of Amos Morris were: Margaret, Rebecca, Lucretia, Melinda, Berla Ann, Susan, Sarah
                    Ann, and Joanna. In the family genealogy, "Descendants of Valentine Hollingsworth,
                    Sr." the record of Hannah Hollingsworth is given. Information from Mrs. H. E. Chandler,
                            
                  Junction City, Kansas
                (living in 1937, at this address.) It seems possible
                    that the Amos of the Star query may have been a son of the Amos
                    of the Magazine Query 20, as he names one of his sons, Tyler Issac, of the Magazine Query 20 line, perhaps a brother of Amos, who married Joanna
                    Lautz.—M.T.M.
            Answer to Query 24 (March 1937, p. 109, R. J.) I am interested in Peter Rhinehart—born
                    1765; died 1850; married Margaret Ullum (b. Jan. 15, 1772, Botetourt Co., 
                        Va.
                    ) They had a daughter Eva Rinehart—born Feb. 3, 1799; married 1820 to William
                    Wright (b. Oct. 15, 1799, in Botetourt Co., 
                        Va.
                    ) William Wright had a sister Mary (b. May 23, 1792; d. July 14, 1859) who married
                    Abraham Rhinehart (b. Oct. 29, 1785; d. Sept. 14, 1854.) This William Wright went to 
                        Ohio
                     (Preble Co.) in 1817, when seventeen with the Poppaws, Morningstars, and Rhineharts,
                    where he lived until his death, in 1863. The children of William and Eva Rineheart) Wright were:
                        
                        
                     Peter and James (twins)—b, 1821, Preble Co., O.
                     Andrew—b, 1822.
                     William—b, 1824.
                     
                     Hannah—b, 1825.
                     Jacob—b, 1828.
                     Elizabeth—b, 1830.
                     John—b. Dec. 26, 1831; m. Nancy Jane Jones (my grandparents).
                     Daniel—b, 1833.
                     David—b, 1837.
                     Sarah—b, 1841.
                  
                    
            
            —Mrs. George D. Garber, 
                        North Manchester
                    , Ind.
            Answer to Query 25 (March 1937, p. 109 A. N.) Information to help in completing the record of the
                    Patrick and Levi Morris families and bring out connections in 
                        Jackson
                     Co., Ind., follows: Levi Morris—born Feb. 16,1816, in N. C. (place not
                    known); son of Denny (or Dency) and Jemima Morris; married (1) Martha Kelley (daughter of Joshua and
                    Martha Kelley) on Nov. 9, 1837. Martha born May 6, 1815. Their children were: 
                        
                     Anna—b. Sept. 4, 1838.
                     Joshua—b. Apr. 10, 1840.
                     Isabel Keziah—b. Apr. 9, 1842.
                     Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                —b. Feb. 12, 1844.
                     Kincheon—b. Jul. 6, 1847.
                  
                    
            
            Levi Morris, married (2) Jerusha (
                        Brown
                    ) Gardner on July 2, 1848. Their children were: 
                        
                     William Laban—b. July 14, 1849.
                     Charles—b. Jul. 30, 1851.
                     Minerva—b. May 6, 1854.
                     Mary Luella—b. June 7, 1857.
                     John—b. Jul. 23, 1858.
                  
                    
            
            Jerusha (Gardner) Morris died Sept. 2, 1858, and Levi Morris married (3) Nancy Thompson. No issue. He
                    died Apr. 8, 1872. Anna Morris, daughter of Levi and Martha (Kelley) Morris, who was born Sept. 4,
                    1838, was my grandmother. She died about 1874, at 
                        Seymour
                    , Ind. She married Daniel Patrick, son of John and Matilda (Holman) Patrick. Matilda was
                    a daughter of Isaac Holman, soldier in Revolutionary War, who is buried in Clark Co., Ind. The
                    Morris and Patrick families lived in southern Indiana (Seymour and Tampico) but I do not know the
                    names of John Patrick's parents, nor the place of his birth. I have the names of the
                    children of John and Matilda Patrick from the family Bible. The dates for the Morris line are from
                    the Morris Bible, which is 105 years old.—Mrs. Lester E. Niles, 519 Chiquita Road, Santa
                    Barbara, Cal.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            HUDELSON AND BRADLEY FAMILIES
            The first Hudelson family record was copied from the Bible of John Montgomery Hudson, who died in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana, on August 22, 1843, aged 73 years. His wife, Catherine, died on February 1,
                    1852. The second Hudelson family record was copied from the Bible of William Hudelson, who lived at 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana. William was born on July 16, 1802. He married Margaret Bradley (born May 20,
                    1800) on June 2, 1825. William died in 
                        Henry County
                     on December 27, 1886. The Bradley family record was also copied from the William
                    Hudelson Bible. Thomas Bradley was born on March 15, 1761. He married 
                        Philadelphia
                     Ficklin (born December 15, 1768) on March 5,1788. These records were sent in several
                    months ago by Edwin Garner Chapman of 
                  Minneapolis,
                            Minnesota
               . Mr. Champan died on July 12,
                    1937.
            
                    
                        Children of John Montgomery and Catherine Hudelson:
                        
                     James Hudelson—b. Jan. 25,1797; d. Feb. 7.1873; m. Elizabeth Vanderen.
                     Mary Hudelson—b. Nov. 3, 1798; d. Mar. 7, 1799.
                     John Miller Hudelson—b. Jan. 1, 1800; d. Oct, 18, 1873; m. Matilda Ann
                                Hinds.
                     William Hudelson—b. Jul. 16, 1802; d. Dec. 27, 1886; m. Margaret Bradley.
                     Samuel Hudelson—b. Nov. 7, 1804; d. May 11, 1863; m. Mancy Jane Templeton.
                     Robert Irwin Hudelson—b. Sept. 4, 1807; d. Mar, 18,1855; m. Phebe Shipman
                                Gary.
                     Alexander Hudelson—b. Feb. 24, 1811; d. Mar. 1, 1834; did not marry.
                  
                    
                
            All of the above, except William, are buried in the 
                        Shiloh
                     cemetery, near 
                        Carthage
                    , Rush Co., Indiana. William Hudelson is buried in the cemetery at 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana.
            
                    
                        Children of Thomas and 
                                Philadelphia
                             Ficklin Bradley:
                        
                     Robert Bradley—b. June 26, 1790; m. Nancy Pulllam.
                     William Bradley—b. Feb. 1793; m. (1) Sally Deakins and (2) Sally W.
                                Jenkins.
                     Henry Bradley—b. Jul. 7, 1795; m. Maria Jenkins.
                     Fames Ficklin Bradley—b. Feb. 10, 1798; m. Nancy Keller.
                     Margaret Bradley—b. May 20, 1800; m. William Hudelson.
                     John Bradley—b. Feb. 20, 1805.
                     Jephthah Dudley Bradley—b. Feb. 20, 1808; m. Eliza Suggett.
                     Joseph Leland Bradley—b. Aug. 11, 1810.
                  
                    
                
            
            Thomas Bradley and his wife 
                        Philadelphia
                     Ficklin, as well as the parents of the latter (Thomas and Mary Herndon Ficklin), all
                    rank as Revolutionary patriots, having been among the defenders of Bryan (Bryant's)
                    Station, 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was one of the last engagements of the Revolutionary War.
            
                    
                        Children of William and Margaret Bradley Hudelson:
                        
                     John L. Hudelson—b. Feb. 20, 1836; m. Esther Ann Winder.
                     Mary C. Hudelson—b. May 6, 1827; m. G. W. Stevenson.
                     James T. Hudelson—b. Dec, 18 1828; m. Nancy Strattan.
                     Ann Mariah P. Hudelson—b. Mar. 27, 1830; m. William Penn Hill.
                     Jephthah A. Hudelson—b. Apr. 11, 1832; m. Ann Yetter.
                     William H. Hudelson—b. Apr. 21, 1835; m. Jane Johnson.
                     Jane Montgomery Hudelson—b. Mar. 27, 1837; did not marry.
                     Robert Samuel Hudelson—b. Feb. 20, 1838; died young.
                     Rufus Irwin Hudelson—b. Sept. 19, 1840; m. Eliza Armstrong.
                     Margaret Elizabeth Hudelson—b. Jul. 9, 1843; m. Adam J. Johnson.
                     Sarah Bradley Hudelson—b. Jul. 1, 1846; did not marry.
                  
                    
                
            THE HAWKINS AND WEST FAMILIES
            James Hawkins (born Jan. 16, 1766) married Rachel Lytle (born Feb. 19, 1769) on Apr. 6, 1789, in
                            
                  Lincoln County, North Carolina
               , where both were born. They moved to the Abbeville
                    District of 
                        South Carolina
                     where all their children were born. In April, 1834, James Hawkins, then 68 years of
                    age, came to 
                        Bartholomew County
                    , Indiana. This was several years after three of his children had married and moved to
                    Indiana. The Hawkins and West genealogical data were all copied from old Bible records and sent in
                    by Mrs. Lawrence Jack, S. 2625 Garfield Road, 
                  Spokane, Washington
               .
            
                    
                        Children of James and Rachel Lytle Hawkins:
                        
                     Elizabeth Hawkins—b. Apr. 25, 1790; m. Moses Pruitt; moved to Ind., 1815.
                     Mary Hawkins—b. Oct. 20, 1792; m. William West; moved to 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind., 1816.
                     John Hawkins—b. Dec. 3, 1794; m. Nancy Hackleman; moved to 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind., 1815.
                     Rebecca Hawkins—b. Nov. 1, 1796.
                     Margaret Hawkins—b. Mar. 4, 1799.
                     Rachel Hawkins—b. Mar. 3, 1801.
                     James Hawkins—b. Aug. 27, 1803.
                     Mathew Hawkins—b. ——.
                     William Lytle Hawkins—b. Oct. 30, 1805.
                  
                    
                
            Robert West lived to be 112 years old. Benjamin West [presumably the son of Robert West] m. Nancy
                    Hawkins.  Benjamin lived to the age of 85 and Nancy to 84.
                    William West was born in South (?) Carolina on Apr. 17, 1791. He married (1) Mary [Polly] Hawkins
                    (daughter of James and Rachel Hawkins) on Nov. 13, 1813, in 
                        South Carolina
                    . Mary died on Oct. 1, 1822, and was buried in the old Wiley Graveyard in 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana. They had migrated to Indiana in 1816. William West married (2) Martha
                    Findley. He died on Mar. 29, 1862, and was buried in the old Wiley Graveyard.
            
                    
                        Children of William and Mary (Hawkins) West:
                        
                     James Lytle West—b. Dec. 27, 1816, Abbeville District, S. C.
                     Mathew West—b. ——; d. 12 yrs. of age; buried in 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind.
                     Benjamin Harrison West—b. Jul, 18, 1818, 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind.
                     John Quincy West—b. Apr. 2, 1820, 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind.
                     Rachel West—b. Jul. 14, 1822, 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Ind.
                  
                    
                
            There was one child by the union of William West and Martha Findley, George Anne West (born Sept. 28,
                    1828). Two of the children of William West, Rachel West and James Lytle West married into another
                    family of the same name, as recorded below. The family of Townsend West and Susan West was not
                    related to the 
                        South Carolina
                     Wests, but belonged to the 
                  Fairfax County,
                            Virginia
               , Wests.
            
                    
                        Record of Marriages:
                        
                     James Lytle West—m. Susan West, Mar. 16, 1838.
                     Rachel West—m. Townsend West, ——.
                     Benjamin Harrison West—m. Sarah I. Carmichael, Apr. 21, 1847.
                     John Quincy West—m. Mary E. Doerflier, Dec. 17, 1861.
                  
                    
                    
                        Record of Deaths:
                        
                     Rachel (West) West—d. Dec. 3, 1847.
                     Benjamin Harrison West—d. Nov, 18, 1868 (buried in old Wiley Graveyard).
                     John Quincy West—d. Dec. 16, 1874.
                  
                    
                
            James Lytle West (born in Abbeville District, S. C., Dec. 22, 1815) married Susan West (born in
                            
                  Wood County, Va.
               , [Now W. 
                        Va.
                    ], Oct. 10, 1816) on Mar. 15, 1838, in 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana. Here their children were born, except the youngest, who was born in
                            
                  Polk County, Iowa
               .
            
                    
                        Children of James Lytle and Susan (West) West:
                        
                     
                        
                                    Milton
                                 Hawkins West—b. Mar. 1, 1839.
                     Maria Woodyard West—b. May 12, 1841.
                     Francis Marion West—b. Mar. 12, 1845.
                     Alexander Miller West—b. Mar. 20, 1847.
                     
                     Rebecca Pruitt West—b. Jan. 8, 1860.
                     William Harrison West—b. Apr. 19, 1862.
                     John Townsend West—b. Sept. 10, 1855.
                     Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                 West—b. Jul. 19, 1858.
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            Tombstone Inscriptions
            PERSONS BURIED IN THE CHAMBERS CEMETERY*
            
            
                    
                  Freddie, son of A. J. and I. Chambers—died Apr. 17, 1892, aged 6 years, 6 mos.,
                            27 days.
                  Martha E., wife of J. G. Chambers—born June 2, 1844, died Dec. 25, 1870.
                  Minnie, daughter of A. J. Chambers—Oct. 13, 1884, Sept. 6, 1885.
                  Jane, wife of J. G. Chambers—died Sept. 2, 1865, aged 23 years, 8 mos., 18
                            days.
                  Anna, daughter of A. & O. Chambers—Dec. 7, 1862-May 10, 1865.
                  Olie Chambers—182–884.
                  Hezekiah Chambers—Apr. 7, 1812-May 10, 1888.
                  Ozias Chambers—died Aug. 10, 1872, aged 61 years, 4 mos., 7 days.
                  Noah Chambers—186–884.
                  Daisy, E., daughter of John and Lillie B. Chambers—Sept. 25, 1876-Nov. 27,
                            1876.
                  William, son of O. & M. Chambers—Died Aug. 19, 1861, aged 11 yrs., 9,
                            mos., 1 days.
                  Samantha A., daughter of O. & M. Chambers—died Feb. 6, 1864, aged 23
                            years, 9 mos., 3 days.
                  Nancy, daughter of H. & M. Chambers—died Nov. 15, 1853, aged 17 mos.,
                            17 days.
                  Julia A., daughter of O. & M. Chambers—died Nov. 15, 1858, aged 1 yr.
                            & 2 mos.
                  Elizabeth, widow of Jesse Cole—died Sept. 20, 1856, aged 72 yrs.
                  Hiram H. Chambers—died Oct. 6, 1852, aged 24 yrs., 3 mos., 17 days.
                  William S. Chambers—died Jan. 16, 1855, aged 69 yrs.
                  Mary, wife of Wm. S. Chambers—died Feb. 16, 1849, aged 60 yrs.
                  Nancy, wife of Thos. Hously and daughter of Wm. S. and Mary Chambers—died Sept,
                            1840, aged [stone has sunk too far into the earth for the remainder of inscription to be
                            read.]
                  Thomas, son of Wm. S. and Mary Chambers—died 1834, aged 1 yr.
                  Stouten, son of Wm. S. and Mary Chambers—died Sept, 1832, aged 2 yrs.
                  John, son of Wm. S. and Mary Chambers—died Sept. 15, 1833, aged 17 yrs.
                  Shelton Chambers—died Oct. 30, 1865, aged 28 yrs., 3 mos., 26 days.
                  Rebekah A., consort of Shelton Chambers and daughter of P. and B. A.
                            Gaither—born June 16, 1839, died March 7, 1871.
                  Infant twin daughters of Shelton and Rebekah Chambers—born and died in 1860.
                  Martha, daughter of D. and S. Chambers-July 11, 1860-Aug. 1, 1860.
                  Infant daughter of D. and S. Chambers—died Mar. 21, 1858, aged 1 day. 
                        
                           * The Chambers Cemetery is located near
                                    Harrodsburg, 
                                        Monroe County
                                    , Indiana, about one-half mile east of State Highway 87. The records
                                    were copied by Mrs. Charles R. Emery, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Indiana. Verses, scripture passages, and other like matter have been
                                    omitted.
                     
                  
                  
                  Wm. P. Chambers—Sept. 27, 1850-Aug. 17, 1851.
                  Julia Ann. Chambers—Sept. 11, 1843-July 18, 1847.
                  Margaret, daughter of H. and M. Chambers—died Oct. 3, 1853, aged 11 yrs., 2
                            mos., 3 days.
                  Anthony Chambers—died Apr. 25, 1848, aged 51 yrs.
                  Mary C., wife of Anthony Chambers—died Feb. 24,1859, aged 54 yrs.
                  Malinda, wife of Hezekiah Chambers—died Oct. 4, 1871, aged 54 yrs., 7 mos., 2
                            days.
                  Silas, son of H. and M. Chambers—died Nov. 10, 1872, aged 24 yrs., 4 mos., 25
                            days.
                  Mary E. Chambers—died 1905, aged 69 yrs.
                  John A. Medcalf—July 1, 1827-Sept. 10, 1876.
                  Jacob Chambers—died Jan. 25, 1882, aged 47 years, 7 mos., 2 days.
                  Delitha, wife of J. Pennington—died April 17, 1868. aged 21 yrs., 6 mos., 13
                            days.
                  Infant daughter of H. and M. Chambers—Dec. 31, 1842, aged 19 days.
                  Mary S., daughter of H. and M. Chambers—July 16, 1846, aged 6 mos. and 7 days.
                  Alexander Chambers [died] Aug. 30, 1876, aged 49 yrs. and 9 mo.
                  Katie, daughter of A. and M. Chambers—died Apr. 23, 1876, aged 3 mos., 28
                        days.
               
                
         
         
         
            Recent Additions to the Genealogy Section of the Indiana State Library*
            
            
               Arnold memorial—Arnold, 1935.
               Art of ancestor hunting—Stetson, 1936.
               Ashbys, Reids, and / allied families—Ashby, 1936.
               Beals family—Beals (n.d.)
               Blaisdell papers—Blaisdel family association, 1935.
               Bourne, Richard, and some of his descendants—Dykes, 1919.
               Burke's Landed Gentry, Centenary ed., 1937.
               
                  
                     Cambridge, England
                  , St. Michael's Parish, Register of baptisms,
                        marriages, burials, 153–837—Venn, 1891.
               Carroll, William, of 
                            Allegany County
                        , N.Y.—Stevenson, 1929.
               Clasping hands with generations past—Lloyd, 1932.
               
                  
                     Clermont County, Ohio
                  , History of, 1880.
               Colonial Dames of America, Register of 
                            New Jersey
                         society, 1928.
               D.A.R., Indiana, Yearbook, 193–7.
               Far Rockaway, N.Y.—Smith, 1936.
               Felton family—Felton, 1935.
               Handbook of American Genealogy, 1937.
               
                  
                            Hartford
                         (Conn.) Daily Times, Feb. 1, 1936-May 8,
                        1937—(Contains a Genealogy department.)
               Hodge, Berry, Fairfax families—McNaught, 1934.
               Jefferson county, Ind., Early wills, early marriages—Hill, 1937.
               Kilgore, Charles, of Bang's Mountain—Addington, 1935.
               Kinfolks, vols. I and II—Harllee, 193–5.
               Kinship book—Bond, 1928 (Southern families).
               
                  
                            Lexington
                         and 
                     Fayette County, Ky.
                  , Directory of, 183–9.
               Long Island Hist. Soc., Catalogue of American genealogies in—Toedteberg, 1935.
               
                  
                     Louisa County, Va.
                  —Harris, 1936.
               Luyster family—Johnson, 1936.
               Lynchburg, 
                            Va.
                        , Pioneer Quakers—
                            Brown
                        , 1936.
               McNaught, 
                     Franklin, Bartholomew
                   families—McNaught, 1934. 
                     
                        * This is not a complete list. With slight exceptions
                                it includes no pamphlet or manuscript material. A few important collections and separate
                                volumes, mentioned in the March, 1937, number of the Indiana Magazine of
                                    History, page 99, are not repeated here. Arrangement of this list is by title,
                                author and date of publication. —Anna Poacher, Librarian
                                    Genealogy Section.
                     
                  
               
               
               Maysville and 
                     Mason County, Ky.
                  , History of—Clift, 1936.
               Monongahela of old, 185–892—Veech, 1910.
               Nancy Shippen, her journal book—Armes, 1935.
               Old 
                            Somerset
                         and Eastern shore of 
                            Maryland
                        —Torrence, 1935.
               
                  
                            Pendleton County
                        , W. 
                            Va.
                        —Morton, 1910.
               Queens Borough, N.Y., Private and family cemeteries—Queens topog. bureau, 1932.
               Ringo family—Ringo, 192–937.
               
                  
                            Ripley county
                        , Ind., Cemetery records (covering over 100 cemeteries)—Garman-Toph,
                        193–7.
               
                  
                            Ripley county
                        , Ind., Genealogies, obituaries, etc.—Toph, 193–7.
               Rolling 
                            Prairie
                        , Ind., M.E. Church, History and records, 183–933—Carman,
                        1936.
               Rupp's thirty thousand names, Index to—Koger, 1935.
               
                  
                            Salisbury
                         and Amesbury, Mass., Old families of, 3v. and sup.—Hoyt,
                        189–919.
               Searching for your ancestors—Doane, 1937.
               Settlers by the long grey trail (Va.)—Harrison, 1935.
               Sims, Stephens and his descendants—Sims, 1937.
               Smith (Rock Smith) family—V. W. Smith, 1937.
               Smock family, Genealogical notes of—Smock, 1922.
               Sons of the the American Revolution, Indiana, Yearbook (current).
               Stratford Hall (Lee family)—Armes, 1936.
               Tallman, Peleg, 176–841—Emery, 1935.
               Taylor, Anthony, 163–935—Taylor, 1937.
               
                  
                            Vigo County
                        , Ind., Marriage licenses, 181–0—Markle—Emeline
                        Fairbanks Memorial Library, per Miss Crawford, various dates.
               Vigo county, Ind., Marriage licenses, 181–0—Markle and Johns, 1936.
               
                  
                            Virginia
                        , Revolutionary war records—Brumbaugh, 1936.
               Warwickshire, 
                            England
                        , Place names of—Grover et al, 1936.
               
                  
                            Westfield
                        , N.J., History of—Philbower, 1923.
               Woodburn History—Woodburn, 1936.
            
         
         
         
            Additions and Corrections
            The article, "The Isaac Harvey Family," which appeared in the June issue (pages
                    24–45), has induced Mrs. C. C. Atkinson of 
                        Chicago
                     (2611 E. 73 St.) to send in additional data. Thomas Atkinson (b. Sept, 18, 1741), son
                    of Henry and Ann Atkinson, married (1) Ruth Cruze (about 1764 or 1765). Ruth was a daughter of John
                    and Ann Cruze (
                        Cane Creek
                     Monthly Meeting, 
                        Orange
                     [now Alamance] County, N. C.) Children: John (b. Nov. 25, 1766); Thomas (b. Aug. 30,
                    1769); Mary (b. Apr. 5, 1771); Ann (b. Feb. 28, 1773); Robert (b. Feb. 27, 1775). Ruth (Cruze)
                    Atkinson died between 1775 and 1780, and Thomas Atkinson married (2) Ruth Harvey on Sept. 5, 1781.
                    Ruth was the daughter of Isaac and Martha (Newlin) Harvey formerly of 
                  Chester County, Penn.
                Thomas Atkinson and Ruth Harvey were married at Spring Monthly Meeting, 
                        Orange
                     [now Alamance] Co., N.C. The witnesses to this marriage (names copied personally from
                    the records filed at Guilford College, N.C.) were: Wm. Lindley, John Carter, Zacharias Dicks, John
                    Newlin, Joseph Cloud, Wm. Harvey, Wm. Holoday, Caleb Harvey, Hannah Carter, Ruth Dicks, Martha
                    Newlin and Mary Harvey. Children of Thomas and Ruth (Harvey) Atkinson: William A. (b. Jul, 18,
                    1782); Elizabeth (b. Sept. 29, 1784).
            The Editor of the Genealogical Section furnishes the following corrections of errors found in the
                    second paragraph, page 243, of the June issue: Isaac Harvey died on April 3, 1802 (not 1792). Martha
                    (Newlin) Harvey died on Nov. 23, 1806 (not 1906).
            
               Attention: All contributions for Indiana Genealogy should be typed to avoid
                    mistakes in names and dates. They must be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should
                    be brief and definite. Answers for publication will be appreciated. In connection with any answer,
                    the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given.
                    Traditions must be verified. Bible and other records are requested for publication. Mail copy for
                    Indiana Genealogy to Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris, Salem, Indiana.
         
      
      
         
      
   
