
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 96, Issue 1, pages 1-125. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:96+issue:1+year:2000&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Gayle Thornbrough, 1914-1999
            Lana Ruegamer∗
            
            Gayle Thornbrough's work as a historian falls into several periods: for the first decade of
                    her working life—from 1937, the year after she was graduated from 
                        Butler
                     University as a history major, until 1947, when she succeeded Nellie Armstrong
                    Robertson as Indiana Historical Bureau (IHB) editor—she was principally an editor of
                    other people's manuscripts for the Indiana Historical Society (IHS). During the next twenty
                    years (1947–1967), she was mainly an editor of historical documents. For twenty months in
                    1967 and 1968 she left editing and Indianapolis to work as a manuscripts specialist in the Library
                    of Congress. She returned to Indiana in 1968 to take charge of the publications and library of the
                    Society, which had been reorganized in large part in order to bring her back to IHS. And from 1976
                    to 1984, she served as the first executive secretary of the newly independent IHS, which had become
                    the most prosperous historical society in the country and under her guidance was to become one of
                    the most innovative as well.1
            
            Before 1967 Gayle's thirty-year career was enormously productive, but it was not surprising.
                    She was a superb editor, nationally recognized for her work in documentary editing, in an
                    institution, the Bureau, that had a tradition of superb editors; Gayle followed Robertson and
                    Dorothy L. Riker in this line.2 It is true that the resources she brought to
                    editing were more broadly-based than those of her older colleagues. Gayle was an urbane and cultured
                    person, knowledgeable about the arts, well traveled, and an insatiable reader. She was also notably
                    tactful and patient in working with authors.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ Lana Ruegamer is associate editor of the Indiana
                            Magazine of History. She was editor for the Indiana Historical Society from 1975-1984.
                        A version of this paper was delivered at a memorial service for Gayle Thornbrough at the Indiana
                        Historical Society on December 5, 1999.
               
                  1 For a more detailed treatment of Thornbrough's career see Lana
                        Ruegamer, "Gayle Thornbrough and the Indiana Historical Society," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (September 1984), 271 77, and Ruegamer, A History of the Indiana Historical Society, 1830-1980 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980), especially chapters 7 and 9.
               
                  2 See Ruegamer, "Dorothy Lois Riker, 1904-1994: Reflections on
                        Indiana History, Historical Editing, and Women in the Historical Profession," Indiana Magazine of History, XCI (September 1995), 246-61.
               
                  3 Interview with Dorothy L. Riker, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , April 25, 1984; telephone interview with Hubert Hawkins, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , June 22, 1995.
            
            
            While Gayle did her job as editor outstandingly well, it was the job she had signed on for and was
                    expected to do. But after 1966, she changed careers, several times. After 1966, her career became
                    surprising.
            In what must have been a wrenching decision for her, and was unquestionably shocking to her
                    colleagues, Gayle left 
                        Indianapolis
                     and historical editing in 1967 to take a position in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., as a manuscripts specialist at the Library of Congress, where she classified and
                    summarized documents, especially from the colonial period. When I interviewed them in 1984, both
                    Riker and Shirley McCord, Gayle's colleagues at the Bureau, discussed the dismay they had
                    felt at her leaving.4 Gayle was 52 years old in 1967; when she left the Society
                    and the Bureau, the question of the future of those institutions was raised in an urgent way.
            Eli Lilly and the board of trustees of IHS responded to her departure in dramatic ways. In May 1967
                    they reorganized the administration of the Society to create a leadership position for Gayle
                    Thornbrough, and a year later, after Gayle had accepted the position, Lilly gave IHS two and a half
                    million dollars' worth of stock to fund an expansion of the Society's programs.
                    Here was a an explicit and institution-transforming testimony (though a private one, since few knew
                    about the Lilly gift) to Gayle's importance to the Society's future; and it marked
                    another major turning point in Thornbrough's career.5
            
            When she returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1968 Gayle was no longer one of the group of old friends and coworkers who had
                    lunched together for years; she was now quietly in charge of transforming an institution most of
                    whose principal figures were older women who had known her since she was a girl. Distancing herself
                    from them was no doubt difficult; Thornbrough was both unpretentious and gentle. Dorothy Riker
                    remembered that some people thought she had bitten off more than she could chew. Riker herself was
                    full of admiration for what Gayle accomplished: "It took a good head to get through all
                        that."6
            
            From 1968 to 1976 Gayle, working with the Society's board of trustees and through the
                    library committee, found ways to bring order to the crowded and chaotic library, on the one hand,
                    and on the other began the fulfillment of one of IHS's oldest dreams, the publication of
                    the massive Calvin Fletcher diary, which was to be Thornbrough's crowning achievement as an
                    editor. Enlisting Riker as her coworker and training the new Marian College graduate Paula Lents
                    Corpuz to work with them, Thornbrough worked from 1968 to 
                  
                     4 Interview with Riker; interview with Shirley McCord, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , April 1984.
                  
                     5 James H. Madison, Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1989), 162-63; Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                                Society, 205-207.
                  
                     6 Interview with Riker: interview with McCord.
               
                     1984 to publish the diary, the richest single source for Indiana
                    history during the fifty-year period it covers and one of the most humanly appealing of American
                    diaries. The editing is masterly.7 Gayle also undertook another large project,
                    the publication of the documentary history of the Indiana years of George Rapp's Harmony
                    Society.
            In 1976 Thornbrough's career took its last turn: after her eight-year apprenticeship as
                    director of publications and the library, she was appointed executive secretary of a once-again
                    reorganized Indiana Historical Society. This time the Society was entirely separated from the
                    Bureau, with which it had been closely associated since the Progressive era. Under Gayle's
                    leadership IHS took its place as an independent and, after 1977, very wealthy institution: with
                    Gayle installed as its leader Eli Lilly left the Society 10 percent of his holdings in Lilly stock
                    upon his death.
            Gayle Thornbrough's last career was truly surprising. There was no other institution like
                    the one she headed and no other administrator, much less another woman administrator, called upon to
                    transform the resources for state, local, and regional history in the way Gayle was. Thornbrough
                    never made a speech, never wrote a monograph, never read a paper at a professional meeting; and yet
                    she was one of the most productive and influential historians in the history of the state. She
                    fostered a vast array of research projects, seeking out ideas from others, quick to respond to
                    imaginative suggestions, willing to try something new—like funding a position in the
                    history of medicine at Indiana University, publishing historic recordings and a monograph on Indiana
                    ragtime, supporting a newsletter and new collecting program in black history, seeking out a talented
                    biographer for Eli Lilly, microfilming Indiana newspapers … and on and on.
            Gayle Thornbrough was more than the sum of these parts: it was the person that she grew to be who
                    created this legacy for Indiana history. Modest, private, down-to-earth, endlessly interested in the
                    past and in fostering its study and preserving its records, confident of her own good sense, she
                    ventured beyond familiar territory in the last two decades of her life to take on the challenge of
                    leadership when she was chosen for it. We are indebted to her for her courage in doing so.
            
               
                  7 For the history of the Society and the Calvin Fletcher diary see
                        Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical Society, 227-30, 230n.
            
         
         
         
            
               CRISPUS ATTUCKS
                        CHEERING
                        SECTION
                        CELEBRATES
                        VICTORY
                        OVER INDIANAPOLIS CATHEDRAL HIGH SCHOOL
                        IN IHSAA TOURNAMENT, 1956
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library
            
            
            "Ba-ad, Ba-a-ad Tigers": Crispus Attucks Basketball and Black 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1950s
            Arum Goudsouzian∗
            
            "So Long, Tigers—You're Champs to Us," lamented the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder. Crispus Attucks High School's basketball team had just lost to 
                        Indianapolis
                     Cathedral in the sectional round of the 1952 Indiana state basketball tournament.
                    Expressing "shock and pain and bewilderment," the sports reporters dissected the
                    troubling loss. They blamed the weak Attucks schedule and dubious calls by the referees, both
                    factors of a "prejudice that still is widespread in Indiana." The team, however,
                    deserved high praise. Although the fans' victory song would not be heard again that season,
                    "the melody lingers on."
            On the editorial page, analysis of the loss continued. Andrew W. Ramsey, the lead columnist and a
                    teacher at Attucks, urged sportsmanship and a tempering of the bitterness among the legions of fans
                    who supported the team. In an "Open Letter to Attucks Fans," he argued that the
                    loss was not the fault of the players, coaches, administrators, or game officials. Rather,
                    "what is to blame is your unfounded belief that the team is invincible." He
                    continued: 
                        I realize that your jubilation last year and your despair this [year] stem from our hope that
                            one day in the area of sports, more than anywhere else, the American myth may be fulfilled.
                            In this field more than any other, America approaches what the Declaration of Independence
                            and the Constitution have declared her to be.1
                  
                     Ramsey's words, the community's fervor, and the powerful social role
                    assigned to sport were all based on a set of harsh truths: during an era of racial integration in
                    both education and sport, Crispus Attucks High School was an all-black school, with an all black
                    faculty and an all-black administration. The fans who supported the school's athletic
                    endeavors were predominantly African American. The issues raised in the newspaper that
                    day—confronting racial bias in the form of poor officiating, struggling to gain
                    legitimacy as a program despite a weak schedule and inadequate facilities, and above all determining
                    whether athletic success could promote racial equality—would continue to be addressed by
                    African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     throughout the 1950s. The loss in 1952 was not just a setback for a 
                  
                     ∗ Aram Goudsouzian is a graduate student in history at
                            Purdue University.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 8, 1952.
               
                     group of young basketball players: it was also a defeat for a
                    people who daily experienced the reality of segregation and discrimination.
            The Attucks loss was also an anomaly. It was the only year between 1951 and 1959 that the school
                    failed to advance beyond the sectional round. Indeed, the school's athletic accomplishments
                    during this era remain a rich chapter in Indiana's storied tradition of high school
                    basketball. Their success was staggering: eight sectional titles, eight regional titles, six
                    appearances among the final four teams, and three state championships. The first Attucks state
                    championship in 1955 was also the first won by any 
                        Indianapolis
                     high school. The following year Attucks became the first state champions to be
                    undefeated for an entire season. The best player on those teams, Oscar Robertson, later enjoyed
                    great success at the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and in the professional ranks. Players like Hallie Bryant, Willie Gardner, Willie
                    Merriweather, and Bill Scott also earned fame beyond their high school years. Coach Ray Crowe
                    remained a revered figure in Indiana.
            Yet the legacy of Crispus Attucks basketball in the 1950s extended far beyond athletic success. The
                    basketball team mobilized the black community, furnished role models for black youths, and provided
                    an arena where African Americans could witness their representatives legitimately confronting and
                    vanquishing teams composed primarily of whites. Among both middle- and lower-class 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks, no greater or more widespread source of cultural pride existed. Attucks
                    basketball provided a forum for debate over issues of race relations and the social and political
                    impact of sporting success, as the sports coverage and the Ramsey editorial in the Recorder illustrated. Moreover, the team's success influenced Indiana race
                    relations in both obvious and subtle ways. Attucks earned respect and fan support from whites as
                    well as blacks. To some extent, the team represented the entire city; newspapers increasingly
                    referred to "
                        Indianapolis
                     Attucks" as the team accumulated athletic honors. Thus, when Crispus Attucks
                    took the floor for a basketball game, more was at stake than an athletic contest.
            Although historians have examined the social role of black athletes in a national context, few have
                    done so on a local scale.2 Rob Ruck's Sandlot
                    Seasons, a study of black sports in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , is the most prominent exception. Ruck argues that sport provided a potential for unity
                    and self-organization among African Americans, particularly in the 1930s and early 1940s. Yet Ruck
                    views the post-World 
                  
                     2 Most of this work focuses on the most popular pre-World War II
                            sports, baseball and boxing. On blacks in baseball see Robert Peterson, Only
                                the Ball Was White (Englewood Cliffs, Calif., 1970) and Jules Tygiel, Baseball's Great Experiment (
                                New York
                            , 1983). On boxing see Randy Roberts, Papa Jack: Jack Johnson and
                                the Era of White Hopes (
                                New York
                            , 1983); Jeffrey T. Sammons, Beyond the Ring: The Role of Boxing in
                                American Society (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1988); Elliott J. Gorn, ed., Muhammad Ali: The
                                People's Champ (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1995).
               
                     War II era as the death knell for autonomous black sports, both
                    because of racial integration and the restructuring of athletic institutions on a commercial rather
                    than community basis.3 In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , however, Attucks remained an all-black institution during the 1950s. African Americans
                    could feel pride for an all-black sports team throughout the era. The high school was part of the
                    fabric of the community, and the basketball team served as a focus for racial pride and political
                    awareness. Certainly, larger demographic, economic, and political forces also encouraged racial
                    integration in Indiana and throughout the country: northern migration, the expansion of the black
                    middle class, and increasingly effective political organization played important roles. Yet perhaps
                    no greater, more visible, or more dramatic cultural weapon existed for fighting racial inequality in
                    the hearts and minds of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens than the Crispus Attucks Tigers4
            
            Crispus Attucks's greatest athletic success arose within a context of racial separation and
                    discrimination that was countered by a resilient black community. Educational segregation in Indiana
                    antedated the school's opening in 1927. Most of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's elementary schools had been legally segregated since the end of the Civil
                    War. Whites and blacks resided in separate neighborhoods, shopped in their own business districts,
                    and used different cultural institutions. In 1920, nearly 800 black students attended local high
                    schools (Emmerich Manual, Arsenal Technical, and Shortridge) along with whites, but school officials
                    segregated sports, club activities, and even classroom seating along racial lines5
            
            
               
                  3 Rob Ruck, Sandlot Seasons: Sport in Black 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                   (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1987).
               
                  4 Historians of Indiana, despite the state's tradition of almost
                        fanatical interest in high school basketball, generally have not assigned much importance to
                        Attucks's success. See Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since Emancipation: A Short
                            History of Indiana Negroes, 1863-1963 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ], [1963?]) and Richard B. Pierce 11, "Beneath the Surface:
                        African-American Community Life in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1945-1970" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1996). National civil
                        rights historians have paid little attention to the importance of cultural expressions like
                        sports and music, aside from the occasional brief reference to Jackie Robinson. This inattention
                        spans grassroots sociological studies like Aldon D. Morris, The Origins of the
                            Civil Rights Movement: Black Communities Organizing for Change (
                            New York
                        , 1984); descriptions of national political leaders like David J. Garrow, Bearing the Cross: Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern Christian Leadership
                            Conference (
                            New York
                        , 1986), and Taylor Branch, Parting the Waters: America in the King
                            Years, 1954-1963 (
                            New York
                        , 1988); radical critiques like Manning Marable, Race, Reform, and
                            Rebellion: The Second Reconstruction in Black America, 1945-1982 (Jackson, Miss.,
                        1984), and Vincent Harding, The Other American Revolution (
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1980); and syntheses like Steven F. Lawson, Running for Freedom:
                            Civil Rights and Black Politics in America Since 1941 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1991).
               
                  5 Emma Lou Thornbrough, "African Americans," in Encyclopedia of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows, eds. (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1994), 5-7; Stanley 
                            Warren
                        , "The Evolution of Secondary Schooling for Blacks in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1869-1930," Indiana's African-American Heritage:
                            Essays from Black History News and Notes, Wilma L. Gibbs, ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 19931, 29-30; David MacLaren, "Achievers against the Odds: African
                        Americans in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917-1941," Black History News and Notes, No. 71
                        (February 1998), 3-8.
            
            
            The "great migration" of southern blacks to northern industrial centers, including 
                        Indianapolis
                    , brought previously muted racial tensions into public prominence. Groups like the White
                    Supremacy League and the White Citizens Protective League fought for a residential zoning ordinance
                    in 1926, which the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter
                    successfully challenged. But black resistance failed in the face of a similar grass-roots drive for
                    a segregated high school. White civic leaders, parent-teacher associations, and the Chamber of
                    Commerce appeared before the school board, arguing that black education would thrive in a racially
                    segregated environment. They also expressed fear of exposing white children to tuberculosis, which
                    was more common among African Americans. The school board approved construction of a building in the
                    northwestern part of the city, near the heart of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's largest black section. All 
                        Indianapolis
                     black high school students were required to attend the new school, even seniors who had
                    attended other 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools for three years. Black citizens protested, but the school board's only
                    concession was to change the school's name from Thomas Jefferson High School to Crispus
                    Attucks High School, in honor of the black Revolutionary War hero.6
            
            Though the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) did not directly establish Attucks High School, its pervasive influence
                    in 1920s Indiana politics helps explain the forces that created such a dramatic example of racial
                    separation. David Curtis Stephenson, a man 
                        Indianapolis
                     historian Edward Leary described as "a squat, powerfully built master salesman
                    who exuded charm and good fellowship, but could be as dangerous as a timber rattlesnake,"
                    led Indiana's klan. Known to have proclaimed, "I am the law in Indiana,"
                    Stephenson promoted populist, Protestant values and a white ethnic consciousness. Indiana's
                    was the largest and most powerful state klan during the KKK's national resurgence in the
                    1920s; 25 percent of the white men in the state joined. Before the Indiana klan disbanded in the
                    early 1930s, its name sullied by Stephenson's conviction for rape and second-degree murder,
                    it had managed to dominate the era of Indiana politics that included the establishment of Crispus
                    Attucks. The klan generally directed its hostility towards Catholics, Jews, and immigrants, but
                    klansmen also fought "to keep the black man black and the white man white." When
                    Attucks opened its doors in 1927, the klan led a parade past the school. The procession took an hour
                    to pass.7
            
            
               
                  6 Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan
                        Era of the 1920's," 
                     Mississippi Valley
                            Historical Review, XLVII (March 1961), 597-606; Judy Jolley Mohraz, The
                            Separate Problem: Case Studies of Black Education in the North, 1900-1930 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1979), 15-17; Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 54-56; 
                            Warren
                        , "Evolution of Secondary Schooling for Blacks in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 30-37.
               
                  7 Thornbrough, "Segregation in Indiana," 610-18; Leonard
                        J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921-1928 (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1991); M. William Lutholtz, Grand Dragon: D. C. Stephenson and
                            the Ku Klux Klan in Indiana (West
            
            
            Yet African Americans transformed the school that had been forced upon them into a symbol of black
                    pride and cultural unity. The school's first principal, Matthias Nolcox, combed the east
                    coast and as far west as 
                        Kansas
                     in search of the finest black faculty. Attucks had a higher percentage of teachers with
                    advanced degrees than any other area school; some, like distinguished writer and educational
                    advocate Joseph C. Carroll, had even earned doctorates. An active club life flourished, including a
                    student council, the Attucks Sisters (a charity organization), a Junior Red Cross, and a History
                    Forum. The school further served as an unofficial community center. Administrators turned the vacant
                    back lot into a playground; the National Association of Colored Physicians used the school for their
                    convention in 1930, and the elementary schools, churches, and a variety of civic organizations took
                    advantage of the Attucks library.8
            
            During Russell A. Lane's tenure as principal from 1930 to 1957, the school achieved its
                    highest educational stature. Lane had earned three advanced degrees and was an able administrator,
                    yet he encountered constant barriers at Attucks. Years later he reflected, "The white
                    people didn't expect to give you anything and didn't want to give you anything.
                    You had to fight tooth and nail to get anything you wanted." Through a series of
                    initiatives, Lane prompted an expansion of the school building that would include sixty-four
                    classrooms, sixteen offices, three gyms, thirteen shop classes, and a nine-hundred-seat theater. He
                    also expanded the curriculum to include college algebra, economics, sociology, current events, and
                    five foreign languages. He promoted an extension of educational programs to include vocational
                    subjects and a popular evening school that served both adults and teenagers. He further encouraged a
                    sense of black self-awareness, establishing clubs for black literature, music, and history.9
            
            Lane emphasized cultural pride, discipline, and respect. Students dreaded the waiting area outside
                    his office, known as "the mercy seat." His faculty and staff continually reminded
                    students that they represented Attucks and African Americans. Most took the message to heart, and
                    many applied their educational skills to benefit their community. By 1963, 9 physicians, 3 dentists,
                    4 attorneys, 4 college professors, and 34 of Attucks's 125 teachers were Attucks 
                  
                     
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1991); Edward A. Leary, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The Story of a City (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 19701, 200-206; Philip M. Hoose, Hoosiers: The Fabulous
                                Basketball Life of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1995), 149-50.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Warren
                            , "Evolution of Secondary Schooling for Blacks in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 42-48; Social Science Department Teachers of Crispus Attucks High
                            School, "Historical Sketch of Crispus Attucks High School," January 1948 (
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Schools Crispus Attucks Museum Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; hereafter cited as Attucks Archives); Rosie Cheatham Mickey, "Russell
                            Adrian Lane: Biography of an Urban Negro School Administrator" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            University of Akron, 1983), 139. The Russell A. Lane Papers are in the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     9 Mickey, "Russell Adrian Lane," 5-156; Ronald
                            Reichel, "A Brief History of Crispus Attucks High School" (Attucks
                            Archives), 2-5.
               
                    
                    
                  RUSSELL LANE, PRINCIPAL
                            OF CRISPUS ATTUCKS HIGH SCHOOL, 1930-1957:
                  Indiana Historical Society Library
                graduates. Over the course of Lane's tenure, Crispus Attucks High School
                    established itself as the central institution in black 
                        Indianapolis
                    : a source of pride, a base for community organization, and a training ground for future
                        success.10
            
            From the school's inception, sports helped to establish Attucks's cultural status.
                    African Americans started playing basketball soon after James Naismith invented it in 1891, but the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school system before 1927 generally restricted blacks to noncontact sports like track
                    and field. Basketball games organized by churches, Sunday schools, and industrial leagues, all held
                    at the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) on Senate Avenue, offered 
                  
                     10 Ida Webb Bryant, Glimpses of the Negro in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 1863-1963 (n.p., n.d.), 14-15; Gilbert Taylor, curator of Crispus
                            Attucks Museum, interview with author, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , October 6, 1997.
               
                     organized black sporting activity. YMCA also hosted tournaments
                    and entered leagues that competed with teams from other midwestern cities. Only after Attucks
                    opened, however, did a variety of black sports develop and flourish at the high school level.11
            
            The Attucks football team enjoyed early success and won the National Negro Championship in 1930,
                    defeating Central High School of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . Most white schools refused to compete
                    with all-black schools, so Attucks's main competitors were the other two all-black schools
                    in Indiana, Gary Roosevelt and 
                        Evansville
                     Lincoln (both cities followed 
                        Indianapolis
                    's precedent and segregated their school systems in the late 1920s). Attucks
                    teams also regularly played black schools in 
                  Illinois, Ohio, Missouri, Tennessee
               , and even 
                        Oklahoma
                    . The football team played preliminary games at black colleges. Black student athletes
                    enjoyed meeting nationally known celebrities like Joe Louis and Althea Gibson at Douglass Park, the
                    golf course where the Attucks team practiced and the only one in 
                        Indianapolis
                     which admitted blacks. The basketball team began on shakier ground. In the early 1930s,
                    a paucity of funds and a lack of willing opponents forced them to play men's independent
                    teams. Only as the coaches and administrators developed personal relationships with some of their
                    counterparts at other schools did Attucks begin to play a more substantial schedule, although it
                    consisted primarily of rural and small Catholic schools. Originally bested by rivals Gary Roosevelt
                    and 
                        Evansville
                     Lincoln, each of which laid claim to the National Negro Championship in 1940 (they won
                    separate tournaments), Attucks's greatest years were still to come.12
            
            Attucks sports were popular diversions for 
                        Indianapolis
                     African Americans throughout the school's existence. Not just athletic
                    success, but also the athletes' discipline and status as high school students fed their
                    prestige in the community. Before Attucks, the major black sports team in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had been baseball's Negro League 
                        Indianapolis
                     Clowns, who conformed to white stereotypes of blacks as undisciplined
                    "Sambos." Like the Harlem Globetrotters of basketball, the Clowns ran comic
                    routines during games and sacrificed athletic achievement for white acceptance. In contrast, Attucks
                    basketball teams—like Joe Louis or the Harlem Rens, a successful all-black barnstorming
                    team of the 1930s—played with discipline and dignity; African Americans might be proud
                    not only of their winning, but also for how they won.13
            
            
               
                  11 Stanley 
                            Warren
                        , "The Other Side of Hoosier Hysteria: Segregation, Sports, and the
                        IHSAA," Black History News and Notes, No. 54 (November 1993), 1-3.
               
                  12
                        
                            Warren
                        , "The Other Side of Hoosier Hysteria," 4; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, April 2, 1955; Stanley 
                            Warren
                        , "Blacks in the World of Golf 
                            Indianapolis
                         Style," Black History News and Notes, No. 15 (November
                        19831, 5-7; interview with Taylor; Mickey, "Russell Adrian Lane," 150-51.
               
                  13 Randy Roberts, "Sports," Encyclopedia of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , 184 87; Nelson George, Elevating the Game: Black Men and
                            Basketball (
                            New York
                        , 1992), 33-40; Susan J. Rayl,
            
            
            It galled many black civic leaders that, in a state where high school basketball attracted a
                    fanatical following, the Indiana High School Athletic Association (IHSAA) banned Attucks from its
                    annual state basketball tournament. As soon as Attucks opened in 1927, black leaders met with Arthur
                    Trester, the secretary of IHSM. The dictatorial "King" Trester refused to admit
                    Attucks, along with other black and Catholic schools. He did not consider them
                    "public" schools if their student body was restricted to blacks or Catholics.
                    Black leaders, who had been forced to swallow educational segregation and were now being punished
                    for it, maintained pressure on IHSAA. Political pressure during World War II led to Senate Bill 181,
                    which banned segregation in IHSAA tournaments. The bill passed the state senate in 1941 only to die
                    in the house of representatives. The uproar from black and Catholic civic leaders eventually
                    convinced IHSAA to open the tournament for the 1942-1943 academic year, stating that all
                    "public, private, parochial, colored, and institutional high schools" in Indiana
                    would be permitted to participate in the famed tournament that sparked "Hoosier
                    hysteria" every winter.14
            
            For the first time, Attucks basketball could gain widespread exposure. Victories in the tournament
                    meant attention for the players and the school throughout the city. Success on the basketball court
                    against established white opponents also stoked the pride of black 
                        Indianapolis
                     to a far greater degree than it had done under athletic segregation. Beginning with the
                    1942-1943 season, basketball at Attucks served as a powerful agent of black achievement and
                    equality.
            Crispus Attucks High School was also part of a broader development among Indiana African Americans in
                    the first half of the twentieth century. Because of the exigencies of both de jure
                    and de facto segregation, African Americans created their own culture. Nowhere was
                    this culture more in evidence than along Indiana Avenue, the center of black business and
                    entertainment. At one end of "The Avenoo" loomed the Walker Theatre, built by
                    Madam C. J. Walker, the nation's first self-made woman millionaire. Including a casino,
                    beauty shop, drugstore, coffee shop, and business offices, the Walker building also hosted films,
                    musical events, and vaudeville shows. Jazz artists like Wes 
                        Montgomery
                    , Thomas Parker, Jr., and Freddie Hubbard developed the "Indy Sound"
                    in the clubs lining the avenue, which also attracted regular visits from nationally renowned
                    entertainers like Cab Calloway. Because of its fine music program, Attucks often provided musicians
                    and entertainers for the clubs.
            
               "The 
                            New York
                         Renaissance Professional Black Basketball Team, 1923-1950" (Ph.D.
                        dissertation, 
                            Pennsylvania
                         State University, 1996); Arthur R. Ashe, Jr., A Hard Road to Glory:
                            Basketball: The African American Athlete in Basketball (
                            New York
                        , 1993), 8-23.
               
                  14
                        
                            Warren
                        , "The Other Side of Hoosier Hysteria," 5-6; Indiana High School
                        Athletic Association Thirty-Ninth Annual Handbook, 1942, 148.
            
            
            The eight-block street offered more than music and entertainment. It encompassed the various
                    identities of 
                        Indianapolis
                     African Americans: northern and southern, middle class and lower class, mainstream and
                    marginal. A black police post and fire station helped establish authority. Grocers, tailors, hair
                    stylists, and a variety of other merchants and craftsmen were located there. It also provided an
                    arena for the underside of society: gambling, violence, prostitution, even cross-dressing. Indiana
                    Avenue played a very different role than Crispus Attucks in many respects. Yet both were places
                    apart from white society where blacks felt comfortable, and both symbolized a city with two
                    different cultures divided by race.15
            
            As their numbers increased, African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     began to use community organizations to support political and economic goals. The
                    Senate Avenue YMCA hosted political gatherings that included nationally known speakers such as A.
                    Philip 
                        Randolph
                    , Walter White, and Thurgood Marshall. These "Monster Meetings" served
                    as rallying grounds for organized politics; for example, they spurred the successful fight to
                    integrate public theaters. Flanner House, a social agency funded by both black and white
                    philanthropists, promoted economic development. Masons, civic and social clubs, churches, and
                    newspapers all served the neighborhood. Yet in the era preceding World War II, churches and other
                    organizations remained autonomous, "a patchwork rather than a mosaic." African
                    Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     hardly presented a united front. Glaring examples of discrimination, particularly
                    segregated schools, remained largely uncontested. Indeed, although most 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks anticipated the national trend by defecting to the Democratic party during the
                    1920s, some black politicians like state Senator Robert L. Brokenburr remained loyal to the
                    Republicans. Only the outbreak of World War II brought notable gains for African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as the demand for black workers and soldiers spurred minor civil rights legislation
                    and greater economic opportunity.16
            
            
               
                  15 Amy H. Wilson, "The Swing Era on Indiana Avenue: A Cultural
                        History of 
                            Indianapolis
                        's African-American Jazz Scene, 1933–1950"
                        (Master's thesis, Indiana University, 1997); Clyde Nickerson Bolden, "Indiana
                        Avenue: Black Entertainment Boulevard (Master's thesis, University of 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1983); Gloria J. Gibson-Hudson, "To All Classes; To All Races; This House
                        is Dedicated: The Walker Theatre Revisited," Indiana's African
                            American Heritage, 51-64; "Indiana Avenue," Encyclopedia
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , 729-33.
               
                  16 Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Breaking Racial Barriers to Public
                        Accommodations in Indiana, 1935 to 1963," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, LXXXIII (December 1987), 300-43; Stanley 
                            Warren
                        , "The Monster Meeting at the Negro YMCA in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," ibid., LXXXI (March 19951, 57-80; Pierce,
                        "Beneath the Surface," 49-60, quotation from p. 3; Leary, 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        , 220-23; William W. Giffin, "The Political Realignment of Black Voters in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1924," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (June
                        1993), 133-80; Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 32-38; James H. Madison, Indiana Through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its
                            People, 1920-1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1982), 383-89.
            
            
            The black community underwent a cultural transformation in the midst of the second, larger phase of
                    the "great migration" following World War II. Between 1940 and 1950 
                        Indianapolis
                    's black population increased twice as fast as the overall population, despite
                    the rapid influx of many ethnic groups into the city. All flocked to the city for employment
                    opportunities in wartime defense, electronics, and auto production. Between 1950 and 1960 the black
                    population grew five times as fast as the rest of the population. By 1960, one in five 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents was African American. Class divisions heightened. Southern blacks were often
                    poorer and had less schooling than their northern counterparts. More members of the black middle
                    class found opportunities previously denied them and moved to affluent, predominantly white
                    neighborhoods. Indiana Avenue and even Crispus Attucks High School began to change as the interclass
                    unity forged by segregation started to erode. By the 1950s gamblers and saloons replaced some
                    respectable businesses on Indiana Avenue. Although Attucks continued to attract educated, talented
                    blacks, the school increasingly served poorer southern migrants, and some wealthier students found
                    opportunities at Shortridge and Arsenal Tech.17
            
            On the national stage World War II and the ensuing Cold War had served as catalysts for racial
                    consciousness and activism. African Americans, particularly in the Jim Crow South, began to protest
                    in organized, systematic forms against injustice. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "the most southern city in the North," (or "the most
                    northern city in the South"), many of the same problems existed and black leaders attempted
                    some of the same solutions. A body of unified support, including NAACP, the Congress of Industrial
                    Organizations (CIO), black fraternal and church groups, and an assortment of other groups, including
                    the League of Women Voters and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Jewish Committee, successfully lobbied to pass a landmark school desegregation bill in
                    1949. Although some senators proposed amendments that would have substantially weakened the bill, it
                    received little overt opposition and ultimately passed with few changes. Despite the passage of the
                    bill, 
                        Indianapolis
                     officials avoided desegregation throughout the 1950s in two ways. First, students could
                    apply for vouchers to attend schools outside their district; many black students chose to attend
                    Attucks, and all of the whites in the Attucks district chose to go either to Manual or to
                    Shortridge., Second, economic inequalities and racial prejudice served to segregate black and white
                    housing. Thus few schools had substantial populations of both white and black students. Educational
                    segregation in 
                        Indianapolis
                     never resulted in violent confrontation as it did in so many other states, but the
                        
                  
                     17 James J. Divita, "Demography and Ethnicity," Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 57; Bolden, "Indiana Avenue," 57-60; Bill Scott,
                            interview with author, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 10, 1997.
               
                     school board never enforced integration aggressively during the
                        1950s.18
            
            In 1953 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school board pronounced desegregation complete, because two-thirds of the
                    city's youths attended integrated elementary and secondary schools. Of these schools,
                    however, two had only one white student, and two others had only one black student. Attucks remained
                    all black. In 1958 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Schools (IPS) Assistant Superintendent Paul I. Miller claimed integration was
                    proceeding smoothly, noting that of 561 black teachers, 156 were teaching in integrated schools.
                    Although there were some white teachers at Attucks, the student body still remained all black. Also
                    in 1958 Shortridge High School Principal J. W. Hadley wrote to the Fair Employment Practices
                    Commission assuring them of racial harmony in the schools. "If adults would stay out of
                    this problem of high school integration," he contended, "it would be worked out
                    very nicely by the students. The problem is not with the youths but the adults." Attucks
                    had an all-black student body until 1968.19
            
            In this context—a growing black political self-awareness on both a national and a local
                    scale, a network of black cultural organizations, an expanding black population, early signs of
                    class division among African Americans, and an all-black school in the midst of a slow movement
                    towards integration—Crispus Attucks basketball enjoyed its greatest success. The games,
                    the championships, and the recognition prompted a discussion during the 1950s about the familiar
                    problem of twentieth-century African Americans: how to achieve black consciousness and pride while
                    participating in a larger society on an even footing.
            The Fitzhugh Lyons-coached Attucks teams of the 1940s laid the groundwork for the school's
                    zenith as a basketball program in the 1950s. Lyons coached when Attucks still struggled to gain
                    legitimacy, and his philosophy mirrored that of Principal Lane and Athletic Director Alonzo Watford.
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder later described Lyons's tenure as "those days when
                    Attucks was still patiently accumulating good-will and educating the populace to inter-racial
                    basketball." Unlike his predecessors, Lyons had been trained in the game and was the first
                    Attucks coach to install a basketball "system." The teams learned to play
                    technically sound basketball. Yet Lyons's training also included a passive,
                    nonconfrontational approach. Historian Randy Roberts called basketball under Lyons a game of
                    "don'ts: don't 
                  
                     18 Lawson, Running far Freedom, 20-40; Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, "Breaking Racial Barriers from the 1940s to 1963" (Paper
                            presented at the spring conference of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1986; copy in Indiana Historical Society), 8-12; Thornbrough, "The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Story," 119-33; Pierce, "Beneath the Surface,"
                            115-21.
                  
                     19 Pierce, "Beneath the Surface," 116-18;
                            Administrative Files, Correspondence, and Complaint Files, 1945-1961, Box 4, Fair Employment
                            Practices Commission Records (Indiana State Archives, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     leave your feet, don't fluster your opponent with
                    physical defense, don't improvise, and don't anger a white official or coach with
                    a complaint." Lyons directed his energies not towards the best athletes, but rather towards
                    those who he felt could best place the school—and all African Americans—in the
                    most favorable light. The results were predictable: Lyons's crew of polite, middle-class
                    athletes would win most of their regular season games against small rural and Catholic schools, but
                    rarely could they measure up to traditionally powerful teams in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     sectional.20
            
            Before the 1950–1951 basketball season, Lyons decided to step down as basketball coach.
                    His replacement, former assistant coach Ray Crowe, deserves credit for the emergence of the Crispus
                    Attucks Tigers as a basketball juggernaut and a powerful cultural agent. As a math and physical
                    education teacher the soft-spoken Crowe earned the respect and even fear of the student body. He
                    could discipline students with a glare or a raised finger, and he was a father figure for many of
                    his students and players. He visited players' homes, helped them with financial or
                    discipline problems, and organized picnics, basketball tournaments, and even summer scrimmages
                    against inmates at the 
                        Plainfield
                     prison. Ironically, while Crowe and his team became symbols of black pride and
                    consciousness, Crowe tried not to filter his life or his team's success through the lens of
                    race. As a member of the only black family in rural Whiteland, Indiana, he claimed never to have
                    felt the sting of discrimination, despite the area's large klan population. In college at
                    Indiana Central, in his first job as a manual laborer at Industrial Harvester Corporation, in his
                    position at Attucks, he rarely complained of unfair blows dealt to him and other African Americans.
                    "I don't talk a lot about being black and what all of that might or might not
                    mean," Crowe once said. Lane and Watford perceived the conservative, middle-class, and
                    impeccably dressed Crowe as a natural successor to Lyons.21
            
            Crowe's quiet demeanor, however, concealed an intense conviction that the status quo at
                    Attucks should be challenged. Although Crowe had played structured basketball since his childhood,
                    he rejected the "defeatist" attitude of the team and a playing style that failed
                    to incorporate the talent developing on the playgrounds and courts of black 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As a coordinator of an afternoon basketball program at Lockefield Gardens, the local
                    federal housing project for African Americans constructed during the New Deal, Crowe had observed a
                    kind of basketball quite different from the rigid play-making 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 25, 1950, April 2, 1955; Randy Roberts, "But They Can't Beat Us": Oscar Robertson and the Crispus
                                Attucks Tigers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1999), 47.
                  
                     21 Kerry D. Marshall, The Ray Crowe Story: A Legend in
                                High School Basketball (n.p., 1992), 1-32, 135-36; Bob Collins, "Bob
                            Collins Sports Profile," Personal Files (Attucks Archives); interview with
                        Scott.
               
                     Lyons preached at Attucks. "The Dust Bowl," as
                    residents called the Lockefield playground, hosted games that were "faster, louder, more
                    stop-and-go, and … defiant of established standards of performance." It was a
                    style that emphasized showmanship, athleticism, and improvisation, and it was a style that was
                    distinctly black.22
            
            Fans responded enthusiastically to Attucks's distinctive playing style. Crowe's
                    teams replaced organized plays and self-conscious restraint with behind-the-back passes, pressure
                    defense, and fast breaks. Although other Indiana teams practiced a run-and-shoot offense, Attucks
                    placed its own stamp on the game, one forged on urban playgrounds. Authors Nelson George and Philip
                    Hoose have each compared Attucks basketball to the jazz that only a decade earlier had flourished
                    along nearby Indiana Avenue; while other teams "moved around the court in patterns as if
                    there were square dances and ballads running through their heads," Attucks basketball was
                    "a free-lance festival of running hooks, length-of the-court rushes, thirty-foot
                    jumpers." Like jazz artists, the team improvised, quickened the pace, and allowed for
                    individual style in a team context.23
            
            Crowe's success as a basketball coach reflected his ability to combine the structured
                    conventions of traditional basketball with the flamboyant, athletic style of the "Dust
                    Bowl." He did not discard the talented traditional center Bob Jewell and his teammate John
                    Davis. Rather, Crowe meshed their styles with those of younger and poorer southern migrants whom
                    Crowe had coached since they were in the eighth grade. Among the new players was Hallie Bryant, a
                    forward who played with charisma and grace. Willie Gardner was the tallest man on the team, but he
                    also had dribbling and playmaking skills that resisted typecasting. Bailey "Flap"
                    Robertson was a brash, fearless long-distance jump shooter. These players became Attucks's
                    greatest stars in the early 1950s.
            Some traditionalists criticized the new developments. Jep Cadou, sports editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, complained that Naismith never intended that players with "jumping
                    jack legs" would be able to rewrite basketball's traditional patterns. Cadou cried
                    that "One 
                        Indianapolis
                     team, Crispus Attucks, has six boys who can 'dunk' the ball and such
                    lads are common around the state." Black players were transforming Indiana's
                    cherished game, to the chagrin of longtime fans like Cadou. But black fans naturally enjoyed a style
                    that was both effective and associated with black players. Moreover, many white fans also fancied
                    the athletic innovations. Attucks made passionate fans 
                  
                     22 Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 136; George, Elevating the Game, 71-81, 118-20; Hoose, Hoosiers,
                            158-60; Clayton Riley, "Ball, folklore, and democracy," Christianity and Crisis, XLVII (June 8, 19871, 217-20.
                  
                     23 Hoose, Hoosiers, 160-72; George, Elevating the Game, 116-17; Marshall, Ray Crowe Story,
                        80-84.
               
                    
                    
                  RAY CROWE
                            WITH
                            HIS
                            FIRST ATTUCKS
                            TEAM, 1950-1951: FROM
                            LEFT, CHARLES COOK, PERVIS HENDERSON, BENNY COOK, DEJUAIN BOYD, HALLIE
                                BRYANT, JOHN DAVIS, CHARLES WEST, LARRY O'BANION, CHARLES TOLIVER, WILLIAM MITCHELL, BAILEY ROBERTSON, AND STANLEY WARREN. (NOT SHOWN
                            ARE WILLIE GARDNER, BOB JEWELL, AND LEAHMAN
                                COVINGTON.)
                  Frank Fisse photograph, courtesy of Mr. Fisse
                of both African Americans and whites. The Recorder reflected on the
                    importance of style for the first great Attucks team starring Bryant, Gardner, and Jewell: 
                        It was the greatest team 
                                Indianapolis
                             had ever seen—the most interesting to watch, with its spectacular
                            Globetrotter tactics, its skill at "impossible" shots—and it
                            came on the stage just at the time when television had arrived. The result was that
                            Indianapolis—all of 
                                Indianapolis
                            —was caught up in the TV magic, and became basketball-minded, really
                            basketball-minded like Anderson, Muncie and other Hoosier towns, for the first time in its
                            history. You could say it was the first time 
                                Indianapolis
                             as a city ever had a team.
                    
                     The Recorder probably exaggerated the level of
                    support within 
                        Indianapolis
                    , since some sportswriters and fans expressed doubt about the Attucks team's
                    abilities and even resentment of their success. Yet Crispus Attucks provided a visually exciting
                    style of basketball just as television began to broadcast tournament games. More important, the
                    stylistic changes led to an unprecedented level of athletic success.24
            
            Crowe noted that "Some of the older teachers still believed that the best way to improve the
                    perception of blacks was to avoid being aggressive and confrontational …. I needed to
                    make them understand that the worst disgrace they could bring to our school was to lose when they
                    had a chance to win." The team responded by sailing through his inaugural season with only
                    a single loss. While the Recorder trumpeted the team's feats, white
                    reporters typically gave mixed reviews. The Star's Corky Lamm claimed
                    Attucks "doubtless can be stopped." After Attucks defeated Howe decisively in the
                    sectional final, however, reporter Bob Collins realized that "Attucks can win it."
                    Yet the team's reputation would not be secured until the regional final against perennial
                    basketball power Anderson. Despite some officiating calls that inspired howls of disbelief from the
                    Attucks faithful, the Tigers had the ball and only a one-point deficit with seconds remaining on the
                    clock. Flap Robertson, a sophomore substitute, remained imperturbable as the ball came into his
                    hands and the seconds ticked away. He calmly took a long jump shot that, according to most accounts,
                    bounded high off the back rim. With most of the African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     breathless with fear and hope, the ball swished through the hoop for an 81-80 victory
                    and a regional title.25
            
            The victory song began. Fans clapped their hands, swayed to the rhythm, and loudly launched into
                    their "Crazy Song," written by an Attucks cheerleader in the 1940s: 
                        Oh, Anderson's rough
                        And Anderson's tough
                        They can beat everybody
                        But they can't beat us
                        Hi-de-hi-de, hi-de-hi
                        Hi-de-hi-de, hi-de-ho
                        That's the skip, bob, beat-um
                        That's the crazy song.
                     While a few Attucks supporters collapsed in the excitement of the final tense moments, most
                    fans streamed out of 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse and headed down to Indiana Avenue, honking their horns and celebrating
                    victory. Many saw the game as a turning point for the Attucks 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 2, 1955; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 21, 1953; interview with Taylor.
                  
                     25 Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 48-49; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 19, 26, 1951; Randy Roberts, "The Shot,"
                                Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, IX (Summer 1997),
                        4-9.
               
                    
                    
                  CRISPUS ATTUCKS SUPPORTERS
                            PARADE
                            ALONG INDIANA AVENUE, MARCH 16, 1951:
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library
               
                     program, demonstrating the team's success for the
                    entire state. "Ba-ad, ba-a-ad Tigers," sang the joyous crowd. "ATTUCKS
                    WINS 'GAME OF THE CENTURY,"' blared the front-page headline of the Recorder. "The hand of God was on that game," surmised Principal
                    Lane. Fans lit a bonfire, and a festive snake dance took over Indiana Avenue. The head of the police
                    traffic division personally supervised the celebration, undoubtedly wary of the revelers despite the
                    peaceful nature of the party. The Star's Collins later remembered,
                    "On the one hand they were so relieved that the people along the Avenue didn't not
                    over the team's success, but at the same time you could tell they still thought it would be
                    only a matter of time before the whole thing got out of hand."26
            
            While mainstream newspapers had focused on the celebration in a neighborhood that many whites saw as
                    exotic, the Recorder addressed the social significance of the victory. Even before
                    the 1951 tournament began, black writers claimed that democracy thrived in the annual tournament,
                    despite the social injustice prevalent in nearly every other area of Indiana life. The Recorder editorialized, "It is not too much to say—for nothing is too
                    much to say at tourney time— that in the Tournament we are vouchsafed a little glimpse of
                    Heaven." Dismissing referee bias and the racial remarks of a few spectators, the paper
                    optimistically argued that the IHSAA tournament allowed equal opportunity to all types of schools
                    and boys of every faith and ethnicity. "Sometimes we think it would be a good idea to keep
                    The Tournament and reshape the rest of Indiana's institutions to conform to
                        it."27
            
            Just before the Anderson game, the Recorder again praised democracy through sport;
                    "It is with pride almost to the point of tears that one looks back on the long struggle of
                    Crispus Attucks for its rightful place in the sun of Hoosier basketball." A new era of
                    racial integration seemed to be dawning. "'Weary the road we trod' of
                    being excluded from the tournament; of traveling great distances to play
                    'intersectional' contests with other schools whose only relation to Attucks was
                    that they were also Negro schools." The editorialist further recognized the skills of the
                    players, Crowe's vision, and the efforts of Lyons, Lane, and Watford. As Attucks advanced
                    through the sectional and earned fans from outside the black community, the team, he believed,
                    contributed immeasurable good. Indeed, "the rise of Crispus Attucks has been a major part
                    of the improvement of race relations and the advance of democracy in this state during the past
                        decade."28
            
            After the Anderson win and again after the season-concluding loss in the state semifinals to 
                        Evansville
                     Reitz, the Recorder praised 
                  
                     26 Roberts, "The Shot," 6, 9-11; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 10, 1951, April 2, 1955; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 4, 1951; Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 52.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, February 24, 1951.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., March 3, 1951.
               
                     the "tidal wave of interracial democracy"
                    spurred by the team: "Where the appeals of religion, reason and education seem to have
                    fallen on deaf ears, the spectacle of brilliant basketball has turned the trick." Ramsey
                    interpreted the success of the Tigers as an example of African Americans' potential
                    achievement when given equal opportunity. He further realized the social power of the team: 
                        The Tiger victories gave hope to local Negroes who have long sought to escape the indignities
                            of second-class citizenship; they kindled the flame of ambition in the hearts of Negro
                            youths who saw little opportunity for themselves in a town and community where most of the
                            doors of achievement seemed to be closed to them.29
                  
                    
            
            At the same time the black press also realized that letters of support, praise from white fans, and
                    the adoration of the city's youth were only stepping stones towards the necessary
                    conditions for social equality: 
                        It is very fine to give Hallie Bryant a hand, but how about giving him a job when the time
                            comes? Will "Dill" Gardner be able to move about in 
                                Indianapolis
                             as he moves about the basketball court? Could John Davis eat in all the
                            restaurants where his achievements are providing dinner conversation?
                     Sports became the vehicle through which editorialists urged racial justice. Ramsey chided
                    state legislators who cheered for Attucks on the weekend and argued against a fair employment
                    practices bill the following week. Similarly, he admonished restaurants that admitted and celebrated
                    the team after Attucks victories, yet refused to serve most blacks, in violation of
                    Indiana's civil rights statutes. The best way to praise the athletic accomplishments of the
                    Tigers, he argued, would be for whites to follow equal-opportunity employment policies and for all
                    to make donations towards college scholarship funds for Attucks students. The Attucks basketball
                    team took a step towards equality, but larger hurdles still remained.30
            
            Over the course of the next decade, the team became the most popular symbol of black culture in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These years of success occurred during a transitional phase in black American sports
                    culture. The civil rights movement promoted integration as its chief goal and achievement,
                    highlighted by the Supreme Court's 1954 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     v. Board of Education decision. The most visible national example of racial
                    integration occurred in 1947 when Jackie Robinson joined the 
                        Brooklyn
                     Dodgers. While all-black professional sports suffered, as integration and commercial
                    restructuring wiped out Negro League baseball and many black semiprofessional and club sports,
                    Attucks basketball continued to thrive as an all-black institution.31
            
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid., March 17, 31, 1951.
               
                        30
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  31 J. Harvie Wilkinson 111, From
                        
                            Brown
                        
                        to Bakke: The Supreme Court and School Integration,
                        1954-1978 (
                            New York
                        , 19791, 3-57; Tygiel, Baseball's Great Experiment,
                        180-335; Arnold Rampersad, Jackie Robinson: A Biography (
                            New York
                        , 1997), 135-87; Ruck, Sandlot Seasons, 177-210.
            
            
            Gilbert Taylor, the Attucks student body president in 1955, remembered that "as far as I was
                    concerned, the community and the school were one." Teachers lived in the same neighborhoods
                    as their students and took a personal interest in them. Principal Lane and the faculty continually
                    reminded the student body that they represented African Americans. Bill Scott, a guard on the 1955
                    championship squad, recalled how he and his friends refrained from juvenile pranks and petty theft
                    because of their loyalty to the school. "In the neighborhood, or no matter where we went,
                    we were representing Attucks."
            Lane communicated this message most forcefully to the basketball players, who were the most
                    conspicuous representatives of the community. Before games, he would come into the locker room and
                    remind the team of their social importance: "You are black 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." The faculty rarely granted players special privileges, even after late
                    midweek games. Academic achievement was a priority at Crispus Attucks, and commencement brought the
                    entire community together. "Everybody was there," recollected
                        Taylor.32
            
            Because the tiny gymnasium at Attucks could not accommodate many spectators, the team often played in
                    rivals' facilities. As the Attucks team became more popular, it began to play more
                    frequently at the cavernous 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse, splitting a small portion of the net gate receipts with their opponents.
                    When Attucks consistently filled up arenas with thousands of fans and curious spectators, more
                    prestigious opponents contacted the school about scheduling regular season games. Not only did
                    Attucks begin to play against established schools like Arsenal Tech, Shortridge, and 
                        Terre Haute
                     Gerstmeyer, but they also added significant sums to the school's resources. In
                    a few years, brilliant green and gold uniforms with caped warmup suits replaced the old, thin,
                    tattered Attucks jerseys. As Watford's athletic account grew, the basketball team funded
                    new printing presses and engineering equipment for the school.33
            
            The Attucks athletic success similarly benefited black business. Local establishments associated
                    themselves with the team in efforts to boost sales. Every week during the state tournament,
                    proprietors filled the pages of the Recorder with advertisements designed both to
                    amuse readers and promote business. 
                        Wash 'Em, Steam 'Em, Wipe 'Em Dry ATTUCKS TIGERS-Swancy's
                            Auto Laundry
                        Hey There! You Attucks Tigers! Pour on the Cool, Pour on the Oil-Get Real Hot, Make
                            'Em Boil-
                                Indianapolis
                             Ice and Fuel Co.
                        Don't Worry About Attucks!! Laugh and Play Before and After the Ball Game at the
                            2148 Club
                        Get Ready for the Basketball Tournament-Get That Television in Shape to See It All-Kenwood
                            Radio and Refrigeration Service
                    
                    
                  
                     32 Interview with Taylor; interview with Scott.
                  
                     33 Hoose, Hoosiers, 174-83; Mickey,
                            "Russell Adrian Lane," 154; interview with Scott.
               
                     Similarly, a coalition of civic leaders and church organizations
                    occasionally ran half-page advertisements commending the team's success.34
            
            Crispus Attucks High School also affected the political life of the community. Since the school
                    educated most African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and served as a community cultural center, it is not surprising that some of its former
                    students became political leaders; six of the ten black state legislators representing 
                        Marion
                     County in the 1960s and 1970s were educated at Attucks. They used the team's
                    success to establish good will and emphasized the integration of sport as part of African
                    Americans' political struggle. State Senator Robert L. Brokenburr spearheaded the 1941
                    drive for black teams' admission to IHSAA. Indiana University coach Branch McCracken and
                    his first black star, Bill Garrett, came to a Senate Avenue YMCA Monster Meeting to praise the
                    Tigers' success in 1951. Scovel Richardson, head of the U.S. Parole Board and the first
                    black ever to serve as chairman of a large federal agency, came to a Kiwanis Club banquet to commend
                    the team after they won their 1955 title. Even politician Henry J. Richardson, who sent his son to
                    Shortridge High School and actively supported Shortridge athletics, contributed to a trophy fund for
                    the Attucks 1956 championship team. Shortridge student Marcus Stewart recalled during the first
                    championship celebration, "I kept thinking, Attucks means black. Attucks means
                        us."35
            
            Crowds of up to 12,000 people filled 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse for important games, and many fans followed the team on road games.
                    Reflecting on those games, Bryant chuckled, "Imagine three busloads of black folks
                    descending on some sleepy farm town on a Saturday night." Yet there were few racial
                    incidents. At home, celebrations at Northwestern Park following playoff victories could last into
                    the early hours of the morning; after the 1955 championship, an orchestra even came from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to play at the year-end celebration. People of different backgrounds and economic
                    status supported the team, including many black students from rival schools. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star interviewed two girls at the celebration following the semi-state victory in 1951.
                    Bedecked in Attucks green and gold, the girls enthusiastically described the game and their
                    reactions to it; only at the end of the interview did they admit they attended Arsenal Tech,
                    Attucks's greatest rival.36
            
            When they perceived injustice in basketball games, community leaders and ordinary fans alike reacted
                    with passion. Late into the afternoon game of the 1953 semi-state tournament, 
                        Shelbyville
                    
                    
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, February 27, 1954, March 19, 1955, March 10, 1956.
                  
                     35 Alan F. January and Justin E. Walsh, A Century of
                                Achievement: Black Hoosiers in the Indiana General Assembly, 1881-1986 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1986), 36-58; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 24, 1951, March 26, 1955; Hoose, Hoosiers, 189-90.
                  
                     36 Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 85; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 19, 1955; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 11, 1951.
               
                     held onto a tie score against heavily favored Crispus Attucks.
                    The Attucks team felt they had been victimized by some poor officiating, but they remained in a
                    position to win the game as the clock ticked towards the end. Patiently, Attucks players looked for
                    the perfect opportunity to take the lead. Bryant, who would later be voted that year's
                    "Mr. Basketball," suddenly cut to the basket, swiftly bypassing his defender. As
                    he leaped to score, two 
                        Shelbyville
                     players converged upon him in mid-air, trying not to concede an easy basket. The
                    players fell to the ground in a tumble, and the ball bounced off the rim. Attucks forward Winifred
                    O'Neal tipped in the rebound. Only then, the whistle blew. To everyone's shock,
                    the referee called a charge on Bryant and awarded foul shots to 
                        Shelbyville
                    . The crowd roared in disbelief. Attucks lost the game by two points. Fans later
                    complained that the referees also refused to call a backcourt violation on 
                        Shelbyville
                    , which would have restored possession to Attucks with twelve seconds remaining.
            The following week, articles on the controversial event filled the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder. The front page described the game and the various travesties of justice
                    perpetrated upon the team by the referees. Editorials praised the team for a job well done in the
                    face of prejudice. A feature focused on the distraught Bryant, with the headline
                    "'This Will Be With Me Rest of My Life,' Says Hallie." The
                    sports page carried another column recounting the history of other bad calls by the referees. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star, regarding the controversial call against Bryant, merely stated, "Referee
                    Stan Dubis was closest. He had his druthers—charging or blocking."37
            
            Three days before the Bryant controversy, the all-white Indiana Officials Association (IOA) had
                    denied admission to black referee Bernard McPeak, who had been an official in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and refereed a state final before coming to Indiana. IHSAA had certified him and a few
                    other blacks to referee in Indiana. Their exclusion from IOA sat poorly with black fans, who often
                    detected prejudice in the highly subjective task of officiating. Every year the Recorder noted a few instances when it appeared referees favored the Attucks opponents.
                    Mainstream papers like the Star, by contrast, ignored any officiating controversy
                    that might have revealed racial prejudice. Although any contention of referee bias remains
                    impossible to prove conclusively, African Americans suspected that some crucial games—in
                    particular the 1952 sectional loss, the 1954 city tournament final, and of course the 1953 semifinal
                    loss involving Bryant—hinged on dubious officiating decisions in the late stages of close
                        games.38
            
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 21, 1953; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, March 15, 1953.
               
                  38
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 8, 1952, March 21, 1953, February 27, December 11, 1954;
                        Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 89-93.
            
            
            Urging McPeak's admission into IOA became a rallying cry for the black press. "Men
                    who discriminate in their own association," argued sports columnist Charles Preston,
                    "are not fit to referee a fast-moving basketball game." Preston singled out white
                    referees Dubis and S. T. Profitt for their bias against Attucks and was incensed when both were
                    among the six referees chosen to work the 1954 Final Four. The Recorder selected
                    McPeak for its 1954 "Race Relations Honor Roll," honoring his "untiring
                    efforts to end discrimination in the ranks of the basketball referees, and to elevate Negro
                    officials to first-class status." Ironically, the Attucks players dreaded the sight of
                    McPeak at the officials' table. Crowe recalled, "He was bending over backwards so
                    he wouldn't look like he was giving us any breaks. At the same time, he was killing
                        us."39
            
            Despite Crowe's general unwillingness to emphasize racial bias, he felt that referees often
                    discriminated against his team. "That's one of the problems I feel was a racial
                    problem," he asserted. Consequently he designed his game plan to avoid situations where
                    referees could influence the game's outcome. He stressed the importance of obtaining an
                    early lead for his team, so that they could protect the lead and never let the referees make a
                    decisive call in a tense situation. Although Crowe frowned upon the kind of
                    "clowning" associated with the Harlem Globetrotters, he arranged for all his
                    tallest players to dunk the ball in succession during warmups; the opposition often stopped and
                    watched open-mouthed, clearly intimidated before the game even began. In their pregame huddle, the
                    Attucks players would hold hands and say in unison, "The first ten points for the refs
                    … the rest are for us."40
            
            The public disapproval of biased referees and the pressure from black journalists to improve the
                    situation continued throughout the 1950s. Preston in particular expressed disgust with
                    "favoritism" and "toadying" within high school athletic
                    departments. He encouraged IHSAA to oversee all referee assignments and called for a ban of IOA. In
                    1957 a group of thirteen black "sportsmen" wrote an open letter to the
                    superintendent of schools, the public schools athletic supervisor, the IHSAA commissioner, and all
                    the athletic directors in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. "Two developments of recent years have greatly increased the
                    participation of Negro athletes in high school sports," the letter read. "One is
                    the rise of Crispus Attucks in basketball, and the other is the integration of schools." 
                        Indianapolis
                    's interracial teams seemed to be doing quite well. 
                        In one respect, however, the program has lagged—hiring of officials. With a few
                            very honorable exceptions, the high schools still employ exclusively white officials.
                        
                     
                        39
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Recorder, February 20, 1954, January 8, 1955; interview with Scott;
                                interview with Ray Crowe, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , November 12, 1997.
                     
                        40 Interview with Crowe; Randy Roberts interview with Edgar
                                Searcy, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , January 24, 1996, copy in author's possession; Hoose, Hoosiers, 174-76.
                  
                        
                        We are not accusing any officials of prejudice. But it is just common sense that if the teams
                            are integrated, the officials should also be integrated. The players and coaches would feel
                            better about it and the fans would have less temptation to blame or bait the referee.
                        What we are advocating is the employment of officials in any or all games without regard to
                            color. In practice, this would mean the more frequent use of Negro officials who are already
                            certified by the IHSAA.
                     Tellingly, the letter did not address the continued racial segregation at Attucks; instead
                    the writers urged the less politically charged and more attainable goal of fair hiring practices for
                    referees. Preston continued to fight for black admission into IOA, featuring that topic in a 1959
                    panel discussion among sportswriters. Yet during Attucks's finest years, black suspicion
                    and anger towards referees remained widespread. The question of whether Attucks would compete on a
                    truly level playing field hovered over each season.41
            
            African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     also complained about the lack of a suitable gymnasium at Attucks, although in some
                    ways the situation actually benefited the team. As Attucks continued to win during the 1950s, 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse on 
                        Butler
                     University's campus hosted more of their games. The enormous fieldhouse could
                    accommodate the school's huge fan base; over 11,000 people came to see a 1955 game against
                    Shortridge, a regular-season record at the time. Attucks attracted such a large following that other 
                        Indianapolis
                     teams like Arsenal Tech and Shortridge also scheduled their home games against Attucks
                    at 
                        Butler
                    . Some contended that Attucks gained an unfair advantage with this arrangement, since
                    the gymnasium was also the site of all IHSAA playoff games held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Most of the Attucks tournament games were thus on its "home"
                        court.42
            
            But the revenue and exposure Attucks received from games at Butler came at a cost. The team played
                    "home" games all over the city in their rivals' gymnasiums. Also, 
                        Butler
                     University naturally assigned priority to its own teams, which limited
                    Attucks's access and led to an irregular schedule that often changed over the course of the
                    season. For example, during the 1955-1956 campaign, the team played three games in five days,
                    another three in seven days, no games for ten days, and then six games in ten days. Most other
                    schools scheduled their games for weekends and Wednesday nights, but the "gym-less
                    wonders" had no such luxury.43
            
            The black press used the gymnasium issue to call attention to racial injustice. Editorials and
                    columns often mentioned the special disadvantage suffered by Attucks teams, and in 1957 civic
                    leaders 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 9, 30, 1957, February 7, 1959.
                  
                     42 Hoose, Hoosiers, 170-80; interview with Searcy; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 5, 1955.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, November 19, 1955; interview with Searcy.
               
                     brought formal requests before the school board for the funds to
                    build an arena. Preston quipped, "They say Attucks players all aspire to be Harlem
                    Globetrotters. With that grind [schedule], they already are." The gymnasium controversy
                    also raised a disturbing issue, given the Attucks focus on education: 
                        It's surprising that long before now, somebody hasn't raised an ugly word
                            in connection with our treatment of the Tigers—EXPLOITATION. Guess we've
                            all been so dazzled by Attucks' rise to glory and game … by the
                            "world's largest high school crowds" … bringing in,
                            incidentally, "the world's largest high school purses"
                            … that we've been carried away a bit.
                     Preston called for the city to build the school a fieldhouse, since Attucks players and
                    fans deserved the same resources provided to other schools. Despite his pleas, Attucks remained
                    without an adequate gymnasium until 1966, and the team continued to play an irregular schedule
                    throughout the years they dominated Indiana basketball.44
            
            The issues of how to achieve unbiased officiating and proper facilities struck many African Americans
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as symbolic. Despite persistent inequality and segregation, legislation had expunged
                    some aspects of discrimination in Indiana basketball and society. The exclusion of competent
                    referees from IOA and the lack of a gymnasium for one of the top teams in the state reminded African
                    Americans of the persistence of racial inequality. IHSAA and the city ignored journalists'
                    calls for decisive action on these issues.
            More satisfying to the black community was the success of the team itself. After Bryant and Gardner
                    graduated, fans considered the 1953-1954 Attucks Tigers an unknown quantity, lacking in height and
                    established stars. But the team defied skeptics and performed well early in the season, led by Flap
                    Robertson's little brother, an inconsistent fourteen-year-old sophomore named Oscar. Ten
                    days before its December 17 game against archrival Arsenal Tech, however, three black men
                    brandishing knives threatened Tech athlete Dave Huff, a steady shooter and role player for the
                    school. "If you make one single point," one of the men sneered,
                    "we'll come back and cut you wide open." Days later Huffs mother received
                    a threatening telephone call and a menacing note. Tech star Don Sexson also reported that someone
                    had attempted to intimidate him.
            Just days before the game, Attucks players also received mysterious threats. Crowe received a letter
                    threatening players Bill Mason and O'Neal, and Robertson also reported receiving a
                    suspicious call. The teams played the game as scheduled, although concerned adults withheld Huff
                    from the match. The police and school authorities took extra security measures to keep Attucks and
                    Tech students 
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, February 5, 1955, March 24, 1956, March 23, 1957.
               
                     separated. With ten thousand fans watching, Attucks won an
                    understandably nervous and ragged contest, 43-38.45
            
            Although there were no arrests, the Huff scandal showed again that basketball did not escape the
                    racial tensions within Indiana. Some representatives of Tech wanted to eliminate games with Attucks
                    as a result of the threats made against Huff and Sexson. Indianapolis police responded to the
                    incident by cracking down on gambling along Indiana Avenue, which raised cries of a double standard
                    from the black press. "Every sportsman is indignant," Preston bemoaned,
                    "but it is worse than useless to start jumping on your favorite scapegoat, when nobody
                    knows who the punks are and what are their motives." There was no evidence that gamblers
                    were involved, let alone any based on Indiana Avenue. Nor was there any evidence that the threat
                    against Huff was more serious than the subsequent harassments of black players. Yet some Tech
                    officials and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     police seemed to blame Attucks and African Americans for the incidents.46
            
            Later that same season, however, basketball seemed to be once again uniting the races. Shrugging off
                    dismissals from most sportswriters, Attucks continued to win games, despite season-ending injuries
                    to Willie Merriweather and O'Neal, two of the tallest, most experienced, and consistent
                    Attucks players. "Attucks Comes Back to Haunt 'Pallbearers',"
                    read the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star's headline following the team's sectional victory.
                    Ironically, the school's final foe in the sectional tourney was Arsenal Tech. To their
                    credit, Attucks and Tech fans supported each other loudly during the early rounds of the tournament.
                    Moreover, as Attucks advanced through the regional, semi-state, and final rounds, Superintendent of
                    Schools H. L. Shibler unprecedentedly arranged for cheerleaders from all 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools to support the Tigers. Officers from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Federation of Student Councils also commended the team at a pep rally. The gestures
                    were true acts of sportsmanship, undoubtedly influenced by the need to improve race relations.47
            
            The Tigers did not win the state championship in 1954. Indeed, as all fans schooled in Hoosier lore
                    are aware, 1954 was the year of the "Milan Miracle," when tiny Milan High School
                    defeated a succession of larger schools (including Attucks) on the way to a dramatic 32-30 final win
                    over 
                        Muncie
                     Central. The small town heroes followed the championship win with a late drive through
                    rural Indiana back to Milan. Admirers lined the streets all the way home. The next day's
                        
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star. December 7, 17, 1953; Roberts, "But They
                                Can't Beat Us," 56-59.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, December 19, 1953; Roberts, "But They
                                Can't Beat Us," 63.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 28, March 1, 1954; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 13, 1954.
               
                     celebration in Milan (population 1, 100) included 20,000 people.
                    Although its status as a small, rural school chiefly prompted the outpouring of support, the Milan
                    legend had racial undertones as well. Milan's team was all-white; in fact, not a single
                    African American lived in the town. Before Milan's victory over Attucks in the semifinal
                    round, shooting star Bobby Plump remembered, "When we went out to dinner that night, an
                    unusual number of people followed us around. One of the frequent remarks we heard was,
                    'C'mon Milan, beat those niggers.' People were saying it
                    everywhere." The triumph of the rural white squad recalled a time before blacks influenced
                    the sport and before racial integration became an issue.48
            
            Black columnists detected racial tension throughout the 1954 tournament. As early as the sectional
                    round, Andrew Ramsey claimed the Attucks win was "much to the disappointment of the vast
                    majority of the crowd which was white." He saw the basketball game as another manifestation
                    of racial conflict: 
                        To the anti-Attucks white rooters, Tech represented the great white hope despite the fact
                            that two of Tech's players belonged to the group which was the target of their
                            hatred.
                        To the Negro fans, the game was a sort of vicarious struggle against the stumbling block of
                            second class citizenship…. These Negroes, who daily take a beating from the white
                            man in industry, in business, in religion and in their living conditions were jubilant to
                            see a symbol of white supremacy bite the dust.
                     As the tournament drew to a close, Ramsey further pondered the nature of basketball and
                    race relations. While he appreciated the gesture of cheerleaders from 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools supporting Attucks, he also noted incidents like a small white boy calling his
                    friend a "Nigger lover" for cheering an Attucks play. When police steered Attucks
                    celebrations to "the ghetto" rather than downtown, or when reporters went to
                    solicit public opinion of the team on Indiana Avenue (the same street which they portrayed as the
                    center of organized crime and gambling), Ramsey contended that a long road still needed to be
                    traveled to improve race relations. The success of the basketball team encouraged African Americans
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Yet as long as school segregation persisted, he believed, racial tension would
                    continue to plague sporting contests.49
            
            
               Recorder columnists and editorials responded to Ramsey's controversial
                    remarks. Ramsey was wrong to claim that the majority cheered against Attucks. A small minority may
                    have allowed racial prejudice to become a factor, but most fans supported Attucks in the sectional
                    round and did not let race influence either their cheering of spectacular plays or their booing of
                    hard fouls. The games represented 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 14, 1954; Greg Guffey, The Greatest Basketball
                                Story Ever Told: The Milan Miracle, Then and Now (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 19931, 1-8, 82; Hoose, Hoosiers, 132; Roberts,
                                "But They Can't Beat Us," 66-69.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 6, 20, 1954.
               
                     progress, they asserted. "If 
                        Indianapolis
                     fans are supporting Attucks, we're not going to withdraw our hand because of
                    some fancied or petty grievance." Fred A. Parker, a guest columnist responding to Ramsey,
                    wrote, "I said to myself, 'Man, TIMES HAVE CHANGED.' And they
                    have!" The Attucks basketball success, as far as Parker was concerned, meant that the
                    school had come a long way since it was established in the era of the Ku Klux Klan. Although the
                    existence of an all-black school was an unfortunate remnant of segregation, Parker contended that
                    "we have actually arrived at the dawn of a NEW DAY; and we should greet that day without
                    fear or skepticism." There was no greater example of that new day than the spirit of racial
                    cooperation at the sectional tournament.50
            
            The 1954 tournament raised new issues about racial prejudice, school segregation, and the role of
                    sports in social struggle, but the Attucks championship season in 1954-1955 brought those issues
                    into even greater public prominence. That season Attucks lost only one game, at 
                        Connersville
                     in what many considered a "fluke." 
                        Connersville
                     had a small gymnasium that usually filled up for basketball games. The large contingent
                    of Attucks fans further crowded the gym, creating a hot and sticky environment. When the gym doors
                    opened at halftime, cool air rushed in and a thin layer of ice and water covered the 
                        Connersville
                     court during the second half. The condensation on the court slowed down the game and
                    allowed 
                        Connersville
                     to stall and protect its lead. Attucks lost, 58-57.51
            
            Most sportswriters recognized Attucks and 
                        Muncie
                     Central as the two best teams in the state that year. Sportswriters discussed the
                    possibility of a "dream game" in the state semifinals between the two powerhouses.
                    Coverage of Attucks in mass distribution newspapers like the Star grew more
                    enthusiastic, which sparked derision among some white readers. Collins, a longtime supporter of the
                    Attucks team who sometimes traveled on their bus, angered some whites. Writers of hate mail accused
                    him of being a Communist, and the Star's Cadou received complaints about
                    the attention paid to Attucks: 
                        The only thing you ever see or read about in The Star is some outstanding
                            Crispus Attucks player or something about their coach or what a tremendous crowd was at
                            their game.—Mrs. Robert Hunt
                        For several years we have been reading you sports writers' stupid articles on how
                            wonderful these Attucks teams are …. To top it off with your remark of the
                            'dream game' also takes the cake.
                        It surely is only wishful thinking as anybody with an ounce of basketball sense knows 
                                Muncie
                             will beat Attucks or any 
                                Indianapolis
                             team, any time, at least 20 points if they care to pour it on!—Bob
                            Moore
                    
                    
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., March 13, 1954.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 6, 1955; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, February 12, 1955.
               
                     Nor did 
                        Wayne
                     Fuson of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News share the Star's enthusiasm for Attucks. Crowe
                    grumbled that Fuson "never had anything good to say about us."52
            
            In the Recorder Preston defended his colleagues at the Star,
                    arguing that, as one of the top teams in the state, Attucks actually received less coverage than
                    they deserved. Preston was also criticized by readers, mostly for his disapproval of the referees:
                        
                        The officials must be pretty sick of you jerks riding their backs! Every Attucks mistake is
                            blowed on them! … If any one thing has done a lot against Attucks, it's
                            the colored sports writers with the displays of poor sportsmanship!—Adrienne
                            Griffin
                        Cat, you're the greatest! When it comes to raving about what an all-Negro team COULD
                            have done, you take the honors! What are you trying to do, start a riot?! You'd
                            think it! Get off this RACE kick!—Charlene Duline
                     The passionate responses to the journalists' coverage suggested that African
                    Americans and whites alike recognized the cultural implications of a black team's success.
                    While the Recorder trumpeted black achievement, papers like the Star sounded a
                    more conservative note. In fact, the Star never mentioned that Attucks was an
                    all-black school. To a certain extent, it was not necessary; 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents certainly knew Attucks remained segregated. Yet considering the racial
                    context of Attucks basketball games, the newspapers' avoidance of racial issues in sports
                    seems significant. Segregation obviously persisted, and African Americans mustered little effective
                    political action during the decade. Whites rarely discussed black cultural achievements of any kind.
                    Attucks basketball allowed whites to appreciate a black institution without directly confronting
                    racial prejudice. This evasion would inform the debate over the social and political impact of the
                    Attucks athletic success in the coming years.53
            
            Attucks and 
                        Muncie
                     fulfilled the prophecy and provided a "dream game" in the state
                    semifinal round. In a classic contest, Attucks edged 
                        Muncie
                     by a single point and advanced to the final four teams of the tournament held at 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse. As the final weekend approached, few fans believed New
                            
                  Albany, Fort
                        Wayne
                North, or Gary Roosevelt stood much chance of winning the title.
                    Attucks seemed certain to win and enjoy the festive parade through downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That week Superintendent Shibler summoned Lane to his office. When Lane arrived, he
                    saw the superintendent flanked by the fire chief, the chief of police, a deputy of the
                    mayor's office, members of the board of education, and various representatives of downtown
                    businesses. As Lane recalled, Shibler said: 
                        Mr. Lane, it looks like your team is going to win the championship Saturday. The merchants
                            are frightened that after you win the championship colored people will come downtown and
                            tear up the town—break out windows, knock out the street lights and all of
                        that.
                    
                    
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 22, 1955; interview with Crowe.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 29, February 19, March 12, 1955.
               
                     Lane responded in his dignified manner, "No, I believe
                    I have taught them that they can't do anything like that."54
            
            In fact, the Attucks supporters' celebration did not stay downtown for very long. Once again
                    carrying the flag of black 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Attucks soundly defeated New 
                        Albany
                     in the afternoon game and met another all-black team, Gary Roosevelt, in the final.
                    Attucks, paced by Robertson's 30 points, easily won their first state championship. After
                    the game police redirected the celebration parade, which traditionally ran through downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to Northwestern Park in the black section near Attucks. Some, like Robertson, resented
                    the slight and never forgot it. Others, like his teammate Scott, did not care: "That was
                    the way it had been the whole time. I was glad to be with my own people, where we felt
                        safe."55
            
            The all-black final between Attucks and Gary Roosevelt added to the atmosphere of black pride during
                    the championship weekend. Some white fans made clear their disgust at how Indiana basketball had
                    changed; Ramsey noted a number of "sullen and hostile looks" and the occasional
                    "racial epithet." Yet many blacks saw the all-black final as evidence of black
                    achievement. Scott remembered, "I said to myself, 'This is ours, not
                    theirs'." Ironically, three southern athletic officials attended the final weekend
                    as guests of IHSAA commissioner L. V. Phillips. An all-black final would have been unthinkable in
                    the South, but the three men were gracious. A high school coach from 
                        Alabama
                     even gushed, "I wish we had some boys who could shoot like that."
                    Phillips smiled as he turned towards the man, "Perhaps you do."56
            
            The win, naturally, stoked the pride of the entire black community. Twenty-five thousand people
                    celebrated around the huge bonfire at Northwestern Park that evening. Lane, usually a rigid advocate
                    of discipline and academic achievement, canceled school on the following Monday and held a dance in
                    honor of the championship. The team attended several banquets, received scores of citations, and
                    reveled in the attention they received. The following week's Recorder
                    included a large supplement devoted entirely to the Tigers, including articles on the history of
                    basketball at Crispus Attucks, a play-by-play record of the winning game, the unique style and the
                    obstacles overcome by the team, Crowe's success, the origins of the Crazy Song, the debate
                    over the school's greatest ballplayer, and the final game itself. But civic leaders did not
                    forget that Attucks was an educational institution. In honor of the championship, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chamber of Commerce established a scholarship fund to 
                  
                     54 Hoose, Hoosiers, 187; George, Elevating the Game, 120; Mickey, "Russell Adrian Lane," 153.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, March 20, 1955; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 26, 1955; Hoose, Hoosiers, 187-89; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Crispus Attucks High School, Attucks Tiger, 1955 (hereafter
                                Attucks Tiger; Attucks Archives); interview with Scott.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 26, 1955; Hoose, Hoosiers,
                        187-89.
               
                    
                    
                  BACK COVER
                            OF
                            THE 1956 IHSAA TOURNAMENT
                            PROGRAM:
                  Indiana Historical Society Library
               
                    
                    
                  CRISPUS ATTUCKS, 1956 STATE
                            CHAMPIONS
                            AND
                            UNDEFEATED
                            IN
                            THE 1955-1956 SEASON:
                  Frank Fisse photograph, courtesy of Mr. Fisse
               
                     aid college bound Attucks students, in the tradition of local
                    churches and organizations that had initiated such drives in the past.57
            
            The championship, the first to be won by any 
                        Indianapolis
                     team, also helped dismantle some barriers that segregated African Americans from
                    whites. 
                        Indianapolis
                     Mayor Alex M. Clark personally led the Attucks cheering section at the final game. Many
                    whites joined black fans in lining the streets and cheering for the team during their victory parade
                    and then joined the celebration at Northwestern Park. 
                        Indianapolis
                     businesses and organizations invited the players to banquets at places where African
                    Americans were not usually welcome, like the Claypool Hotel and the Broadmoor Country Club. While
                    the team certainly did not end racial segregation at these 
                        Indianapolis
                     institutions, their presence fostered good will between 
                        Indianapolis
                     African Americans and whites.58
            
            The success of the Attucks team that season, culminating in the championship, also extended the
                    debate over the nature of sport and its relationship to social change. Before the 1955 tournament
                    began, the Recorder's Ramsey wrote another examination of basketball and
                    race relations. In a column entitled "Basketball, The Hoosier Opiate," Ramsey
                    argued that basketball success among the all-black schools did not reduce the level of segregation
                    in housing, employment, religion, and politics. Moreover, "basketball is an opiate against
                    the painful experiences of everyday realities along the color line." When black fans,
                    including those with no connection to Attucks besides the color of their skin, turned out to support
                    Attucks in large numbers, they witnessed a "battle for and against the recognition of the
                    essential humanity of Negroes." Yet for Ramsey, the battle on the basketball court
                    deflected attention from the real problems that plagued African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .59
            
            The optimistic Preston responded the following week. He agreed that basketball brought racial
                    discrimination into the public eye, "but the end result is A GREAT IMPROVEMENT rather than
                    the opposite." He argued that basketball's popularity discouraged racial
                    discrimination. Coaches and fans searched out the best players and chose not to discriminate. Where
                    African Americans and whites played alongside each other, myths and stereotypes eroded.
                    "Basketball," Preston contended, "is something the common man can
                    grasp." Preston implied that although sport by itself could not end segregation and
                    discrimination, it could change racial attitudes on a personal and cultural level because of its
                    visibility and its tendency to recognize excellence.60
            
            
               
                  57
                        Attucks Tiger, 1955; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 26, April 2, 1955.
               
                  58
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 26, 1955; Randy Roberts interview with Albert Spurlock, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , January 18, 1996, copy in author's possession.
               
                  59
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, February 19, 1955.
               
                  60
                        Ibid., February 26, 1955.
            
            
            The Recorder's lead editorial reflected Preston's optimism.
                    Beginning with a quotation from Matthew 21:42—"The stone which the builders
                    rejected is become the head of the corner"—the newspaper congratulated the
                    Tigers "with a spirit of profound reverence and thanksgiving." 
                        Persons unfamiliar with our state may believe that we are overdoing it in going down on our
                            knees and giving praise to Almighty God that this glorious thing has come to pass.
                        But basketball—especially the high school variety—occupies a peculiarly
                            lofty place in the Hoosier scheme of things. It is far more than a boys'
                            sport—in fact, [it] is just about the most important thing there is.
                     The editorial also praised Crowe for writing "a triumphant climax to the dramatic
                    battle of Negro schools through the decades," since Attucks and Gary Roosevelt had made it
                    to the final round only twelve years after they were admitted into one of the most competitive high
                    school tournaments in the country. The Recorder's religious imagery and
                    unstinting praise suggested a role for basketball larger than that of an
                        "opiate."61
            
            Ramsey and Preston, despite their different perspectives, did share common ground about the political
                    and social benefits of the championship. Ramsey praised Mayor Clark's participation in the
                    cheering section and the other white fans who supported Attucks. Preston acknowledged "an
                    undercurrent of poor sportsmanship" in the city, including comments like the one made by a
                    woman cashier who hoped Attucks would not win, because then "There'd be no
                    livin' with 'em." And everyone undoubtedly agreed that "[a]s
                    long as one section of the Fieldhouse is filled with Negroes and the others predominantly with
                    whites, the question of color will be present either in actuality or suspicious fancy."62
            
            The following season the Crispus Attucks Tigers assured themselves of a lofty status in the annals of
                    Indiana high school basketball by winning every game they played. Attucks played excellent
                    basketball the entire year; no team ever led them in the second half of a game. Scores from the
                    season proved the team's tremendous offensive and defensive capabilities: 90-35, 86-32,
                    91-30, 123-53. In the quiet, determined mold of Coach Crowe, the Attucks team established an
                    unprecedented level of dominance; they set records for the most points ever scored in a single game
                    and for the state's longest consecutive winning streak. The Star's front page
                    proclaimed the Attucks 1956 squad "the greatest team in the history of Indiana high school
                        basketball…."63
            
            
               
                  61
                        Ibid., March 26, 1955.
               
                        62
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  63 Herb Schwomeyer, Hoosier Hysteria: A History of Indiana
                            High School Boys Basketball (
                            Greenfield
                        , Ind., 19701, 240-43; 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, March 18, 19, 1956.
            
            
            By 1956, Attucks had gained a national following. Although their appeal partly depended on earlier
                    success, Attucks was also the home of Oscar Robertson, one of the best high school basketball
                    players in the country. Cyril Birge, a high school referee of the era, said it best: "If
                    there's a better ballplayer than Oscar Robertson, it'd have to be Jesus Christ
                    himself." Robertson was the envy of every college recruiter in the country and the hero of
                    every basketball-playing boy in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . African Americans adored Robertson to the point that when he injured his hand during
                    the 1956 regionals, a picture of his bandaged hand was on the front page of the Recorder. Oscar's hand healed, and he eventually set a single game playoff
                    scoring record with 39 points in the final game against 
                        Lafayette
                     Jefferson. Writer Philip Hoose has suggested that Robertson was the first local black
                    person in 
                        Indianapolis
                     about whom whites were curious. Eager and intense on the court, yet reserved and polite
                    off it, Robertson as an individual exemplified the qualities that inspired the black
                    community's passionate loyalty to Attucks. Three years after he left 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Robertson won a citywide poll in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News as "the one I admire most."64
            
            In third place in that same poll was Ray Crowe. Despite city wide admiration, however, Crowe was
                    never named Indiana Coach of the Year. Some critics maintained Crowe was an ordinary coach with
                    great players, yet in 1957 he took a team of average, undersized Attucks players on a third
                    consecutive trip to the state finals. Although they lost in the final game to an undefeated team
                    from 
                        South Bend
                     Central, Crowe's performance ranks as possibly the finest coaching in Attucks
                    history. The next year he resigned at the behest of the new principal, Alexander Moore, and began a
                    ten-year tenure as athletic director. Crowe soon regretted his decision to resign, and rumors that
                    he would get a job with a college program did not materialize. In fact he could not even find a
                    position at another Indiana high school. Crowe did, however, capitalize on his local popularity and
                    went on to serve five consecutive terms as a state representative, a four-year stint as Director of
                    Parks and Recreation, and on the City Council. Crowe continues to command the respect of his former
                    players, many of whom regularly keep in touch with him. They still call him "Mr.
                        Crowe."65
            
            
               
                  64 William Gildea, Where the Game Matters Most, (
                            Boston
                        , 1997), 9; Max Knight, Somebody Stole the Pea out of my Whistle!: The
                            Golden Age of Hoosier Basketball Referees (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 19951, 149-50; Hoose, Hoosiers, 184-85; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 10, 1956, March 7, 1959.
               
                  65 Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 170-75; Bob Williams, Hoosier Hysteria!: Indiana High School Basketball (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind., 1982), 46-48; "Bob Collins Sports Profile"; January and
                        Walsh, Century of Achievement, 9-10, 41; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 9, 1957; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, March 9, 1957. Though Crowe never won Coach of the Year in Indiana, he
                        did win the Coach of the Year in 
                            Ohio
                        , two years after he had resigned from the bench. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, January 17, 1959.
            
            
            
               OSCAR ROBERTSON, 1956:
               Frank Fisse photograph, courtesy of Mr. Fisse
            
            With the prolonged success of the Tigers, however, came a series of new problems. Lane's
                    resignation before the 1957-1958 school year touched off a new era in Crispus Attucks basketball.
                    When Lane accepted a job as administrative assistant to the superintendent of 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools, Attucks teacher Moore took over as principal. Crowe became athletic director
                    and hired Bill Garrett as the new coach. Moore, complained Crowe, "couldn't have
                    cared less about the athletic program." Crowe found that the athletic department received
                         far less financial support from Moore than it had from Lane.
                    Sadly, the lack of support resulted in lower gate receipts for the team and less revenue for the
                        school.66
            
            It was Crowe who chose Garrett as his successor. According to Stanley 
                        Warren
                    , Garrett's playing career was nearly as important as the Attucks rise in
                    fostering the acceptance of African Americans in Indiana basketball. Garrett, "an all
                    American in everything he did," had led 
                        Shelbyville
                     to the 1947 Indiana state title and then attended Indiana University, which broke the
                    color line in the Big Ten Conference. By his senior year, he was Indiana University's
                    leading scorer, rebounder, and most valuable player; he was named to the All-American team and
                    consistently shared headlines in the Recorder with the first great Attucks teams
                    of the early 1950s. Yet despite Garrett's celebrity, he could not match Crowe's
                    local prestige. Attendance at games and enthusiasm for the program, though still significant, began
                    to dwindle. Crowe recalled that "people just felt the Attucks era was over."67
            
            Garrett coached effectively, however. In 1959, despite little support from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     media, he led Attucks to its third state championship of the decade. Unlike the
                    previous champions, this Attucks team did not crush its opponents. Rather, the team squeaked out a
                    number of tense victories during the tournament. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, which had ranked them ninth in the state at the end of the regular season,
                    later proclaimed that Attucks rated among the finest in the country, "the best darned team
                    here or anywhere."68
            
            Days after the team won the title, Cadou claimed in a Star column that if Attucks
                    had lost in the sectional round (as they almost did, trailing Shortridge by three points with less
                    than a minute to play), then Garrett would have been fired as coach. Moore took "sharp
                    exception" to Cadou's contention, claiming that Garrett was "excellent at
                    building character and mental attitude and that's what we want." Indeed, firing
                    Garrett would have seemed out of character for Moore; as one wag put it, "He might have
                    been fired for winning a game, but never for losing one." Nevertheless, the very existence
                    of the rumor suggested a subtly changing role for Attucks basketball. The team, the school, and the
                    community now expected continued success, yet African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     continued to struggle with the question of the social costs and benefits of
                    Attucks's status as a dominant team.69
            
            In 1958 an ugly incident had marred the 
                        Indianapolis
                     sectional contest. In the week leading up to the tournament, the Recorder
                    
                  
                     66 Interview with Crowe; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 8, 1958.
                  
                     67 Bill Garrett File (Attucks Archives); 
                                Warren
                            , "The Other Side of Hoosier Hysteria," 6-7; interview with
                            Crowe.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 14, March 22, 1959.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., March 25, 26, 1959; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 28, 1959.
               
                     reported that another newspaper had suggested that for Attucks
                    to stay popular among 
                        Indianapolis
                     fans, they should "give someone else a chance" by losing in the
                    sectional tournament. After Attucks won their sixth consecutive sectional contest by beating Ben
                    Davis in the final, many white fans threw drink carton tops onto the gym floor. Attucks had
                    obviously forfeited the underdog status they held in the early 1950s, but the insulting display
                    deserved the indignation of the Recorder:
                    
                        It is wrong and shameful for any responsible citizen even to suggest that the Attucks Tigers
                            ignore the basic reason for sports' being and start losing games they could win; it
                            was disgraceful for hundreds of high school pupils to show such a complete lack of
                            understanding of what basketball, the high school variety, is all about as to shower the
                            floor with drink carton tops.
                     The newspaper argued that even if Attucks could not rouse the broad-based support it once
                    had, the tournament still deserved graceful losers and sportsmanship. The journalists once again
                    suspected racial prejudice as a factor in the white fans' behavior.70
            
            Ramsey also commented on the incident. In the early 1950s he had claimed that basketball fostered
                    great progress toward racial justice. But through the years his disenchantment with the social
                    effects of sport grew. In the wake of the 1958 sectional, he offered his most scathing and
                    pessimistic analysis of the decade: the scene in 
                        Butler
                     Fieldhouse represented "America in Microcosm." He complained that no
                    one mentioned the players' academic futures and instead only discussed their athletic
                    prospects. Members of the "Black Bourgeoisie" cheered the accomplishments of
                    Attucks but enrolled their children at Tech and Shortridge, and they drew "a line between
                    themselves and other Negroes." The seating of the fans along racial lines represented the
                    residential and economic segregation that left many African Americans "in
                    ghettoes" and Attucks entirely black. Attucks, with its racially homogeneous contingent of
                    players, coaches, and fans, remained segregated in an era of integration. White fans "filed
                    out in disgust" after the Attucks victory, hallways and bathrooms echoed with racial
                    epithets, and trash littered the court. Ramsey expressed concern over the racial animosity of the
                    students: "Such an attitude in high school-age youngsters does not speak too well for
                    America's future."71
            
            Gone were the usual comments about racial pride through athletic success. Gone was the idea that
                    basketball improved racial understanding. Instead, Ramsey outlined the trends that would plague
                    American race relations for the remainder of the century: the growing divisions between middle- and
                    lower-class African Americans, the lack of economic and educational opportunities in poor 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, March 8, 1958.
                  
                     71 March 8, 1958.
               
                     areas, continued cultural and residential segregation of the
                    races, and the resentment and lack of understanding that followed. Basketball, according to Ramsey,
                    could not solve these problems. In fact, it was part of the problem.
            Ramsey's comments overlooked the significant social benefits African Americans had accrued
                    as a result of the Crispus Attucks basketball success. If nothing else, the players had won
                    educational and employment opportunities that they might not have received otherwise. Oscar
                    Robertson, Flap Robertson, Bill Hampton, Willie Merriwether, Hallie Bryant, Bill Scott, Bob Jewell,
                    and Sheddrick 
                        Mitchell
                     all earned college scholarships through basketball. Willie Gardner, 
                        Cleveland
                     Harp, Bryant, and Flap Robertson all played in the Harlem Globetrotter organization.
                    Following their basketball careers, nearly all the players were successful in business or as
                    educators. Most attributed their success to Crowe's guidance; Harp said, "He put
                    us in the right direction. None of us would have gotten as far as we did if it wasn't for
                    Mr. Crowe." Though only Oscar Robertson achieved fame and glory, most players built
                    successful, fulfilling lives, unlike many of their classmates.72
            
            Of course, the legacy of Crispus Attucks basketball extends beyond the players themselves. As Crowe
                    put it, "We brought about some change. No doubt about that." The team changed how
                    many black and white 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens thought of themselves and each other. By consistently beating teams made up
                    either entirely or mostly of whites, Crispus Attucks performed on a local level what Joe Louis had
                    done for many American blacks in the 1930s and 1940s; Scott remembered, "It was something
                    'The Man' couldn't take away from us." Robertson elaborated:
                        
                        Black people didn't have a lot of successes. Black people didn't win a lot
                            of things. I never read about black individuals or groups doing anything in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Us winning and being an example of how high school athletes should
                            be—it did a tremendous job for them. It mentally got them out of a hole.
                     Because Attucks was an educational institution steeped in black consciousness and pride,
                    the school undoubtedly helped to shape the teams both on and off the court. As an athletic
                    manifestation of the ideals the school strove for, Attucks inspired 
                        Indianapolis
                    's black community.73
            
            The team's first great years ignited journalists' expressions of pride and
                    celebrations of democracy through sport, but the tenor of the analysis changed over the years.
                    Writers commended the team's success and its influence among black people, but increasing
                    bitterness crept into their editorials and columns over evidence of race prejudice, such as the
                    exclusion of black referees from IOA and racist 
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1996; Marshall, Ray Crowe Story, 96-98,
                            138; Personal Basketball Files (Attucks Archives).
                  
                     73 Interview with Scott; Oscar Robertson file (Attucks
                        Archives).
               
                     behavior from white spectators. Moreover, the larger structural
                    problems that hampered many lower-class African Americans were not solved and may have worsened
                    during this era, as more members of the black middle class fled segregated neighborhoods and chose
                    not to enroll their children at Attucks.
            What significant social change, then, did Attucks basketball actually bring? Collins of the Star stated the common belief that "the success of Attucks'
                    basketball integrated the high schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They became so dominant that the other schools had to get black basketball players or
                    forget about it." Indeed, black players who in an earlier era might have enrolled at
                    Attucks often led the integrated championship teams of rival high schools in the 1960s. Yet the
                    contention seems impossible to prove, since the team influenced attitudes and ideas rather than
                    directly shaping policies and laws. In Indiana, where high school basketball has sometimes seemed
                    almost a form of religion, Attucks basketball was conspicuous and influential. Both the black and
                    the white "common man," as Preston recognized, understood the social significance
                    of an all-black team's beating a white one. But the increased black self-awareness and
                    softened white resistance to integration occurred only because Attucks was the product of
                    discrimination. "Yes, it was more than a game," admitted Ramsey, "but it
                    should not have been."74
            
            
               
                  74
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, March 6, 1954.
            
         
         
         
            
               WILLARD HEISS, RANDOLPH COUNTY FRIEND, DURING WORLD
                        WAR II:
               Courtesy of 
                            Virginia
                         Heiss
            
            
            The Decline of 
                        Quaker
                     Pacifism in the Twentieth Century: Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends as a Case Study
            by Thomas D. Hamm
            Margaret Marconi
            Gretchen Kleinhen Salinas
            Benjamin Whitman∗
            
            Richard M. Nixon was, even in the estimation of admirers, a complex and often contradictory man. One
                    of the contradictions that critics have for half a century found hard to comprehend was that this
                    Cold Warrior came from a 
                        Quaker
                     background. In their minds, the Nixon who prolonged the 
                        Vietnam
                     War with carpet bombing and the Cambodian "incursion" simply could
                    not be reconciled with the well-known commitment of the Quakers to nonviolence.1
            
            The critics have long-standing popular perceptions on their side. If any single characteristic
                    dominates the public image of the Religious Society of Friends, or Quakers, it is the
                    group's historic commitment to pacifism, what Friends call the Peace Testimony.
                    "We certainly do know, and so testify to the world, that the spirit of Christ, which leads
                    us into all Truth, will never move us to fight and war against any man with outward weapons, neither
                    for the Kingdom of Christ, nor for the Kingdoms of this world," English Friends proclaimed
                    in 1661. For two centuries official 
                        Quaker
                     statements in Europe and in North America adhered to this precedent. In the twentieth
                    century, Quakers have been in the forefront of American peace movements.2
            
            The popular image and the official statements do not reflect 
                        Quaker
                     reality. In the twentieth century, there is reason to believe that pacifism has become
                    a minority position among American Friends. In contrast to other historic peace churches, like the
                    Amish and Mennonites, among whom rates of conscientious objection have been high, the available
                    statistics suggest that in conflicts from World War I to 
                        Vietnam
                     a majority of male American Friends of service age made the 
                  
                     ∗ Thomas D. Hamm is archivist and professor of history,
                            Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana. Margaret Marconi was graduated from Earlham in 1995, Gretchen
                            Klein-hen Salinas and Benjamin Whitman in 1996. This article is based on work done in a
                            seminar at Earlham College in 1995 that was made possible by a grant from the Knight
                            Foundation for joint faculty-student research. The authors acknowledge the advice and
                            comments of Ellen Stanley, assistant archivist at Earlham College, and William Medlin,
                            pastor of the Lynn, Indiana, Friends Church.
                  
                     1 For biographers' treatment of Richard M. Nixon's 
                                Quaker
                             background see Charles E. Fager, "Review Essay of Nixon:
                                A Life," 
                                    Quaker
                                 History, LXXXIV (Spring 1995), 65-76.
                  
                     2 Peter Brock, The 
                                    Quaker
                                 Peace Testimony 1660-1914 (York, U.K., 1990), 25.
               
                     decision to serve in the armed forces. Indeed, there is evidence
                    that many American Quakers have become suspicious of peace activism and regard the Peace Testimony
                    as an unrealistic relic of a bygone era.3
            
            This article is an attempt to explain how the Peace Testimony lost its force for many American
                    Quakers over the course of the twentieth century. It uses Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends
                    (Orthodox or Five Years Meeting) as a case study. Indiana Yearly Meeting is appropriate for several
                    reasons. Originally embracing all Friends west of the Scioto River in central 
                        Ohio
                     and stretching beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     into 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Kansas
                    , since 1892 it has included Quakers in western 
                        Ohio
                    , east-central Indiana, and parts of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . From the 1840s until the 1960s, it was the largest yearly meeting of Friends in North
                    America. Earlham College, which since its founding in 1847 has educated numerous 
                        Quaker
                     leaders, is located within the yearly meeting's boundaries. Indiana Yearly
                    Meeting has been in the forefront of dramatic changes among American Friends, especially the revival
                    movement among Gurneyite Quakers in the late nineteenth century. Since 1902 it has also been home to
                    the headquarters in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, of the Five Years Meeting (since 1965 Friends United Meeting), the largest
                    international 
                        Quaker
                     organization in the world. And Indiana was Nixon's ancestral home. Although he
                    was a product of the 
                        Quaker
                     community of Whittier, 
                        California
                    , his 
                        Quaker
                     roots lay in southern Indiana. As this article will show, the attitude of most Indiana
                    Friends toward war in the twentieth century has been very much like that of the last 
                        Quaker
                     president.4
            
            
               
                  3 The standard work on 
                            Quaker
                         pacifism is ibid. For later periods see E. W. Orr, The Quakers in Peace and War, 1920 to 1967 (Eastbourne, U.K. 1974), and Peter Brock
                        and Nigel Young, Pacifism in the Twentieth Century (
                            Syracuse
                        , N.Y., 1999), 334-45. For a study of another yearly meeting that reaches
                        conclusions similar to our own see Cecil B. Currey, "The Devolution of 
                            Quaker
                         Pacifism: A 
                            Kansas
                         Case Study, 1860-1955," 
                     
                                Kansas
                             History, VI (Summer 1983), 120-33.
               
                        
                     4 Herbert Hoover is the other 
                                Quaker
                             president. In the 1820s American Friends divided into two groups, Orthodox and
                            Hicksite. Orthodox Friends emphasized views of the authority of the Bible and the divinity
                            of Jesus that were similar to those of evangelical Protestants. Hicksite Friends emphasized
                            the primacy of the traditional 
                                Quaker
                             doctrine of the Inner Light. In the 1840s and 1850s Orthodox Friends divided
                            into Gurneyite and Wilburite factions. Gurneyites, the larger group, were open to ties with
                            other evangelical Protestants in reform and humanitarian efforts; the more conservative
                            Wilburites shunned such ties as threatening 
                                Quaker
                             distinctiveness. Organized in 1821, Indiana Yearly Meeting was solidly Orthodox
                            during the Hicksite Separation; only about 3,000 of its 18,000 members were Hicksites. In
                            the 1840s and 1850s, almost all of its members sided with the Gurneyite group. See Hugh
                            Barbour and J. William Frost, The Quakers (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1988), 169-203.
                        The basic organizational unit for Friends since the seventeenth century has been the monthly
                            meeting. It has the power to receive and expel members, hold property, and solemnize
                            marriages. Two or more monthly meetings make up a quarterly meeting, which traditionally
                            held its sessions four times a year. It handled business considered beyond the competence of
                            the monthly meetings. Several quarterly meetings make up a yearly meeting. The yearly
                            meeting has traditionally been the highest level of authority for Friends, with the power to
                            set doctrinal standards and policy
                    
            
            
            Quakers have always been good record keepers, so this study has been able to draw on a rich variety
                    of sources. Every year since 1821, Indiana Yearly Meeting has published a volume of minutes, which
                    in the twentieth century has always included reports from the yearly meeting Peace Committee. We
                    also made extensive use of the records of thirteen local congregations or monthly meetings. Seven of
                    these were urban meetings with relatively large memberships: 
                  Greenfield, Marion, Muncie, New Castle, Portland, Wabash
               , and
                    West 
                        Richmond
                    . Six were from rural meetings varying in size: 
                  Dublin, Hopewell, New Garden
               , Oak Ridge, 
                        Spiceland
                    , and Walnut Ridge. These meetings represent a cross section of the yearly meeting in
                    every respect: a mix of rural and urban, large and small, liberal and evangelical. We also conducted
                    oral history interviews with Indiana Yearly Meeting Friends who have been active in supporting peace
                    policies.
            Our conclusion is that in the twentieth century pacifism has lost much of its force in the lives of
                    the members of Indiana Yearly Meeting, and it has lost that force because Indiana Quakers have been
                    almost totally absorbed into the larger culture of the 
                        United States
                    . The Peace Testimony has not totally disappeared from Indiana Quakerism. The yearly
                    meeting in its official statements has adhered to pacifism. And an active and articulate minority of
                    Indiana Friends has been committed to pacifism, not merely refusing to participate in war, but
                    working to remove the causes of war and criticizing 
                        United States
                     policies that rely on military force. Paradoxically, such activities, at least since
                    World War II, have probably weakened the appeal of the Peace Testimony for many other Indiana
                    Friends, since it has often been tied to a political and religious liberalism that they rejected.
            To test this argument, we have focused on four periods when Indiana Friends faced the implications of
                    the Peace Testimony: World War I, World War II, the Korean "Police Action," and
                    the 
                        Vietnam
                     War. We have defined the period of each war expansively in order to gauge the reactions
                    of Hoosier Quakers at the onset of conflict: for example, our consideration of World War II begins
                    in 1936. In each period, we found a combination of official statements upholding the Peace
                    Testimony, some pacifist Friends working for it and in other types of peace activities, some Quakers
                    who actively supported involvement in each war, and considerable indifference to the Peace Testimony
                    by most members.
            
               for members. Since 1900, the yearly meetings with Hicksite origins have been joined together
                        in Friends General Conference. In 1902, most of the Gurneyite yearly meetings in North America
                        joined together to form the Five Years Meeting. In 1965 the latter changed its name to Friends
                        United Meeting. See Barbour and Frost, Quakers, 220, 239, 241; and Thomas D.
                        Hamm, The Transformation of American Quakerism: Orthodox Friends, 1800-1907 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 19881, xvi-xvii.
            
            
            In fact, support for the Peace Testimony has never been unanimous among Quakers, nor, even among
                    those who accepted it, has there been complete agreement about all of its implications. Before 1860
                    Friends disagreed over the acceptability of traveling in armed ships, paying war taxes, or even
                    holding offices in governments that used military force. In the various colonial conflicts, the
                    Revolution, and the War of 1812 some Friends took up arms. In these cases the response of the body
                    of the society was uniform. Friends who fought were offenders against the Discipline who, if they
                    would not repent and condemn their misconduct to the satisfaction of Friends, would be
                    "disowned," the 
                        Quaker
                     term for excommunicated.5
            
            This stance broke down during the Civil War. Virtually all southern Quakers were staunch unionists,
                    and those who were mustered into the Confederate army were nearly all unwilling conscripts, many of
                    whom passively resisted efforts to arm and train them. In the North, young 
                        Quaker
                     men faced an agonizing choice. Virtually unanimous in their support for the Union and
                    for generations opposed to slavery, Friends confronted what by 1863 had become an antislavery war.
                    This was reason for many to break with the Peace Testimony. For the first time, some monthly
                    meetings looked the other way and did not deal with such men as offenders against the Discipline.
                    This was especially true in Indiana Yearly Meeting. One analysis has concluded that about a quarter
                    of all 
                        Quaker
                     men of military age in the state, about twelve hundred in all, enlisted in the Union
                    army. While some monthly meetings did proceed against enlistees, many others ignored them
                        entirely.6
            
            After the Civil War, Indiana Yearly Meeting experienced dramatic and lasting change. A wave of
                    revivalism that transformed their lives and modes of worship swept up most Orthodox Friends in
                    Indiana. At the heart of this "Great Revival" was a group of young 
                        Quaker
                     ministers who had been caught up in the interdenominational second-experience holiness
                    movement. Such holiness advocates argued that all Christians should have two distinct, instantaneous
                    experiences: first conversion, or being "born again," and secondly sanctification,
                    which purged believers of the desire or propensity to sin. Such ministers used these teachings as
                    tools for a radical transformation of Gurneyite Quakerism, especially in the Midwest. Most of the
                    traditional 
                        Quaker
                     peculiarities, such as the "plain dress" and "plain
                    language" of "thee" and "thy," disappeared.
                    Unprogrammed worship, based on silent waiting, gave way to music and regular preaching by ministers
                    whom by the 1890s 
                        Quaker
                     congregations called pastors. By 1900, even the venerable labels of "Society
                    of Friends" and "Friends Meeting" were giving way to "the
                    Friends 
                  
                     5 Brock, 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Peace Testimony, 47-184.
                  
                     6 Jacquelyn S. Nelson, Indiana Quakers Confront the Civil
                                War (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1991); Hamm, Transformation of American Quakerism,
                        66-69.
               
                     Church." One of the casualties of this transformation
                    was the Peace Testimony. Now largely acculturated, most Indiana Friends embraced views on war,
                    pacifism, and conscientious objection that were not that much different from their neighbors in the
                    small towns, cities, and rural districts of the Middle West.7
            
            Part of this transformation was theological, as demonstrated by a debate that took place in 1878 and
                    1879 in the Christian Worker, a 
                        Quaker
                     periodical published in New 
                  Vienna,
                            Ohio
               . On one side was David B.
                    Updegraff, an 
                        Ohio
                        Quaker
                     minister who was probably the most prominent proponent of holiness revivalism among
                    Friends. Updegraff was a biblical literalist who had strong ties with non-
                        Quaker
                     holiness advocates. These influences led Updegraff to argue that Quaker pacifism was
                    based on misinterpretation of scripture; the Old Testament wars proved that sometimes God might
                    command believers to fight. Moreover, many non-
                        Quaker
                     holiness believers, whose experience of sanctification was beyond question, had been
                    soldiers in the Civil War and still embraced defensive war. Faced with a choice between 
                        Quaker
                     tradition and holiness consistency, Updegraff chose the latter. His arguments drew a
                    storm of criticism, much of it from Indiana Friends. But Updegraff s holiness cohorts'
                    relative lack of interest in the 
                        Quaker
                     Peace Testimony is striking.8
            
            Changes in 
                        Quaker
                     demographics in Indiana in this period also played a role. Between 1870 and 1900 the
                    yearly meeting's membership grew steadily. Meetings were founded in areas of northern
                    Indiana and western 
                        Ohio
                     in which Quakers had previously been unknown. Thousands of new members were received
                    whose only knowledge of Quakerism came from holiness revivals. Many were former Union soldiers and
                    their families. Such new members had no predilection to pacifism, and many revivalists in their
                    eagerness to win converts did not emphasize it.9
            
            Still, while powerful forces operated to undermine the Peace Testimony, other forces struggled to
                    uphold it. The holiness emphasis on biblical literalism and revivalism eventually bred a reaction.
                    After 1895 a group of young modernists emerged among Gurneyites, mostly affiliated with 
                        Quaker
                     colleges, with leaders such as Rufus M. Jones, the Haverford College professor who
                    would prove to be the most influential American Friend of the twentieth century. Melding commitments
                    to modernist biblical study with an interest in the Social Gospel, these Friends also turned to the 
                        Quaker
                     past to support their interpretations. Almost uniformly, they were committed not just
                    to pacifism, but to peace activities, joining non-Quakers in groups like the Fellowship of
                    Reconciliation or the Women's International League 
                  
                     7 See Hamm, Transformation of American Quakerism,
                            74-143.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 107-109.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 108-109.
               
                     for Peace and Freedom to influence public opinion and government
                    policies and founding new 
                        Quaker
                     groups like the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC).10
            
            
               
                        Quaker
                     "process" was also vital. Friends make decisions not by majority
                    vote, but by seeking spiritual consensus, confident that if Friends are faithful, the Holy Spirit
                    will come among them and lead them to agreement. Thus when Indiana Yearly Meeting considered
                    revisions of its doctrinal statements, it took only a determined and articulate minority to force
                    retention of traditional statements on peace, even if a majority was uninterested or hostile.11
            
            Certainly, anyone surveying official statements from the yearly meeting would find that it had not
                    abandoned the traditional opposition to war. For the past century, the yearly meeting has always
                    included in its Faith and Practice (formerly called the Discipline) the 
                        Richmond
                     Declaration of Faith, a statement adopted by a conference of Gurneyites in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, in 1887. Its section on "Peace" is unequivocal: 
                        We feel bound explicitly to avow our unshaken persuasion that all war is utterly incompatible
                            with the plain precepts of our divine Lord and Law-giver, and the whole spirit of His
                            Gospel, and that no plea of necessity or policy, however urgent or peculiar, can avail to
                            release either individuals or nations from the paramount allegiance which they owe to Him
                            who hath said, "Love your enemies." In enjoining this love, and the
                            forgiveness of injuries, He who has bought us to Himself has not prescribed for man precepts
                            which are incapable of being carried into practice, or of which the practice is to be
                            postponed until all shall be persuaded to act upon them….
                        We would, in humility, but in faithfulness to our Lord, express our firm persuasion that all
                            the exigencies of civil government and social order may be met under the banner of the
                            Prince of Peace, in strict conformity with His commands.
                     Equally unequivocal was the "query," a question by which monthly meetings
                    were to gauge their spiritual states and those of their members: "DO you maintain the
                    Christian principle of peace and consistently refrain from bearing arms and from performing military
                    service as incompatible with the precepts and spirit of the Gospel?" By 1950, this query
                    had been somewhat enlarged: "DO you consistently practice the Christian principles of love
                    and good will toward all men? Do you work actively for peace and for the removal of the causes of
                    war? Do you observe the testimony of Friends against military training and service? Do you endeavor
                    to make clear to all whom you can influence, that war is inconsistent with the spirit and teaching
                    of Jesus?" A similar query remains in the Faith and Practice.
               12
            
            
               
                  10
                        Ibid., 144-72; William Darwin Swanson Witte, "
                            Quaker
                         Pacifism in the 
                            United States
                        , 1919-1942, with Special Reference to Its Relation to Isolationism and
                        Internationalism" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Columbia
                         University, 1954).
               
                  11 See, for example, Michael J. Sheeran, Beyond Majority
                            Rule: Voteless Decisions in the Religious Society of Friends (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1983).
               
                  12 Society of Friends, Indiana Yearly Meeting, Discipline of
                            Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends (
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1905), 66-67, 115; Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends,
            
            
            Historians of religion are familiar with official statements of faith that have ceased to be
                    normative for most members. Considerable evidence shows that these doctrinal arguments did not
                    persuade most Indiana Friends.
            Before 1917 the military held little appeal for Indiana Quakers. A survey by the yearly
                    meeting's Peace Committee in 1915 showed that only eight members out of nearly twenty
                    thousand were in the armed forces. A Friend from 
                        Carthage
                    , Indiana, who enlisted in the army in 1904 remembered that his parents objected not so
                    much out of 
                        Quaker
                     conviction as a feeling that soldiers were "thugs and ruffians."13
            
            As the 
                        United States
                     moved toward war with 
                        Germany
                     in 1916 and 1917, pacifist Friends in the yearly meeting were outspoken in opposition.
                    Among the leaders were Walter C. Woodward, the long time executive secretary of the Five Years
                    Meeting and editor of American Friend, and Allen D. Hole, a professor at Earlham
                    College who was the head of the Peace Association of Friends in America and the editor of its organ,
                        Messenger of Peace. Before the 
                        United States
                     entered the war, Woodward filled the pages of American Friend with
                    editorials criticizing proposals for universal military training. After the American declaration of
                    war in April 1917, Hole continued to advocate the traditional 
                        Quaker
                     position. While many upheld this war as righteous, he argued that "the means
                    involve exactly the same sacrifice of the principles of the Christian religion which has
                    characterized other wars." When it convened in the fall of 1917, the yearly meeting
                    reminded its members of traditional views.14
            
            Before the war, evidence of antiwar activity is mixed. At First Friends Church in 
                        Marion
                    , for example, in June 1916 the "Faithful Boys Sunday School Class"
                    conducted a debate on "Peace vs. Preparedness." The "appreciative
                    audience" voted the peace advocates the winners. In 1915 and 1916 several of the monthly
                    meetings surveyed received requests from the Peace Association of Friends to petition Congress to
                    oppose increases in military spending and other such "preparedness" activities. 
                        New Garden
                     and Oak Ridge Friends reported that they had sent the petitions. At 
                        Spiceland
                    , although the monthly meeting endorsed sending a letter indicating opposition to
                    "greater military preparation," the committee appointed to seek signers 
                  
                     Faith and Practice of Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of
                                Friends (Book of Discipline) (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1950), 40; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Faith and Practice of
                                Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1994), 36.
                  
                     13 Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends [henceforth cited as Indiana
                            Yearly Meeting], Minutes (1916), 89; Thomas D. Hamm and Wilma L. Kern, A
                                Centennial Landmark: The History of the 
                                    New Castle
                                 Friends Meeting, 1881-1981 (
                                Hagerstown
                            , Ind., 1981), 75 76.
                  
                     14 "Editorial," American Friend
                            (Second Month 1, 1917), 83; Allen D. Hole, The Great War and the Years to
                                Follow (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1917), 5-6; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1917),
                            55-60.
               
                     reported in May 1916 that "for various reasons they
                    were unable to get sufficient names to make it worthwhile." 
                        Spiceland
                    's experience may have been typical; in 1916 the yearly meeting peace committee
                    found that in many meetings "the interest in work for peace is at a very low ebb,"
                    with one quarterly meeting "not able to report any work for peace done within the past
                        year."15
            
            With US. entry into the war, such activities apparently ceased. By the fall of 1917 federal and state
                    officials and many local groups had become almost paranoid about opposition to the war, as
                    demonstrated by the passage of federal sedition and espionage acts and the activities of groups like
                    the American Defense Society and the American Protective League. Outspoken pacifists often found
                    themselves the targets of vigilante violence. Irate neighbors threw eggs at Charles D. Hiatt, the
                    pastor of a break-away 
                        Quaker
                     group near 
                        Jonesboro
                    , Indiana, for openly denouncing the war. Some other forms of harassment were legal. In 
                        Jay County
                    , Indiana, the local draft board sent a thirty-year-old farmer Friend with a wife and
                    three children to an army camp after he registered as a conscientious objector, although non-
                        Quaker
                     neighbors in similar circumstances were permitted to remain at home with agricultural
                    exemptions. The sessions of the Five Years Meeting in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, in October 1917 were tense. One local Friend reported that two Bureau of
                    Investigation agents were present, trying to "get something on the Quakers," and
                    an English Friend provoked an uproar when he argued that the British people were weary of the war. A
                    sensation-seeking 
                        Richmond
                     newspaper embroidered the speech into a "treasonable" statement that
                    90 percent of the British people "wanted peace at any price." Soon the police were
                    making inquiries, and a 
                        Richmond
                     resident opined that the incident had "turned our local people here strongly
                    against Friends." In the spring of 1918 the chairman of Walnut Ridge Monthly
                    Meeting's Peace Committee reported that "there is little the peace com. can do
                    under present circumstances except pray."16
            
            
               
                  15
                        
                            Marion
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Eighth Month 10, 1916 Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives
                        (Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind.); Oak Ridge Monthly Meeting Minutes, First Month 11, 1916, ibid.; 
                            New Garden
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Tenth Month 16, 1915, ibid.; 
                            Spiceland
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Second Month 5, Fifth Month 6, 1916, ibid.; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1916), 89-90. Well into the
                        twentieth century, many monthly meetings continued to use the traditional 
                            Quaker
                         calendar, which substituted numbers for the "pagan" names of the
                        months.
               
                  16 Ralph D. Kirkpatrick, Local Historical and Genealogical
                            Abstracts from 
                                Jonesboro
                             and Gas City, Indiana Newspapers, 1889-1920 (Bowie, Md., 19961, 95; Althea 
                            Brown
                        , "The Quakers of Indiana in the War," May 31, 1919, Friends
                        Collection, Earlham and World War I series (Earlham College archives); Esther Griffin White to
                        Timothy Nicholson, n.d., box 1, Esther Griffin White Papers (Lilly Library, Earlham College);
                        William Dudley Foulke to William P. Bancroft, October 26, 1917, Miscellaneous Letters
                        Collection, ibid.; H. C. Peterson and Gilbert C. Fite, Opponents
                            of war, 1917-1918 (Seattle, Wash., 1968), 13-29; Walnut Ridge Monthly Meeting Minutes,
                        Fifth Month 18, 1918, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives.
            
            
            Indiana Friends may have escaped further harassment because so many publicly supported the war. Some
                    simply repudiated pacifism. Alpheus L. Baldwin, a 
                        Quaker
                     from Webster, Indiana, wrote in the spring of 1917 that 90 percent of the Friends he
                    knew "hold a view concerning war and the carrying of arms similar to that of other
                    Christians in other churches." He condemned as "very, very wrong" any
                    "printed or spoken word advising, urging, or suggesting that conscription be resisted, and
                    that Friends refuse to carry arms." Baldwin was exceptional in taking such a public stance,
                    but other actions of Indiana Friends were consistent with his views. A 
                        New Castle
                     Friend, George M. Barnard, was the chairman of the county Council for Defense, charged
                    with advancing the local war effort, while a 
                        Richmond
                     Friend, Edward H. Harris, headed the Liberty Loan drive there. The experience of the 
                        Wabash
                     Monthly Meeting is telling. Twenty-six members served in the military, while only three
                    were conscientious objectors. 
                        Wabash
                     Friends followed the careers of all, but clearly they took pride in the achievements of
                    their soldiers. In 1917 "a record book was secired [sic] and the names and addresses of the
                    boys were listed as they left for camp. Each month a letter was written by some one to the
                    boys…. Each time a transfer was made to a new camp or company, or a promotion given, the
                    proper notation was made in the book." By the end of the war 
                        Wabash
                     Friends had written three hundred letters and mailed four hundred packages to their
                    soldiers. However, at least one 
                        Wabash
                     Friend who enlisted in the marines, Loren J. Talbert, came home a confirmed pacifist
                    haunted by his experiences.17
            
            Some faculty and students at Earlham College, the yearly meeting's school, also supported
                    the war. Most of the faculty were Quakers, and they included some of the yearly meeting's
                    leading pacifists, such as Hole. The college newspaper, the Earlham Press,
                    deplored the wave of militarism that it saw sweeping the country. Yet the overwhelming majority of
                    Earlham men of military age went into military service: at least 253 served, as opposed to only 47
                    who can be identified as conscientious objectors. The first to enlist from campus, Thomas R. Ban,
                    was the son of a well-known Indiana Yearly Meeting pastor, Daisy Douglas 
                        Barr
                    , who served as president of the Indiana War Mothers organization. The Earlham soldiers
                    enlisted with the blessing of President Robert L. Kelly, who said, in a statement endorsed by the
                    college board, "Each man is answerable before God as to his duty in the situation which now
                    confronts him. Every man 
                  
                     17 A. L. Baldwin, "Another Point of View," American Friend (Fifth Month, 24, 19171, 411; M. B. Culbertson to Michael
                            Foley, May 27, 1918, vol. 20, Council on Defense Records (Archives Division, Indiana
                            Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); George M. Barnard to Michael Foley, August 28, 1918, vol. 8, ibid.; "
                                Wabash
                             Service Records," in "The History of 
                                Wabash
                             Friends Meeting, 1918-1940," Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; Loren J.
                            Talbert, A 
                                    Quaker
                                 Marine on Four Fronts (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1936).
               
                     ought to be able to find in his own heart his duty in the
                    present crisis." The new president who took office in the fall of 1917, David M. Edwards,
                    stated that the college would provide anything short of "technical military
                    training" to aid the national effort.18
            
            There are no complete figures on the number of Indiana Yearly Meeting Friends who served in the
                    military during World War I; it may be significant that the yearly meeting did not collect
                    statistics. One historian has estimated that about two-thirds of all American 
                        Quaker
                     men of military age rendered military service. In Indiana Yearly Meeting, the figure
                    may have been higher. Suggestive is a survey done in the spring of 1919 by Althea 
                        Brown
                    , an Earlham student. She sent out questionnaires about participation in war-related
                    activities to all of the monthly meetings in Indiana. Of the My monthly meetings in Indiana Yearly
                    Meeting, thirty-eight responded. While some important monthly meetings, such as 
                        Richmond
                     First Friends and most of those in 
                        Randolph
                     County, are not included, the results reflect a cross section of the yearly meeting.
                    The statistics, shown in Table 1, are revealing. In some monthly meetings, like Amboy and 
                        Fairmount
                    , conscientious objectors were in the majority. In others, every eligible man entered
                    the service.19
            
            Explaining these results is difficult. No geographical pattern emerges. The two monthly meetings in
                    the city of 
                        Marion
                     showed striking divergence—South 
                        Marion
                     had a strong contingent of conscientious objectors, while 
                        Marion
                     First Friends had none. Similarly, 
                  Fairmount, Back Creek
               , and Oak
                    Ridge were within a few miles of one other in 
                        Grant County
                    , but their members' responses to the war differed considerably.
                    Liberal/evangelical divisions in the yearly meeting also appear to have been irrelevant. Meetings
                    sympathetic to theological modernism, such as 
                  Muncie, New Castle
               , and West 
                        Richmond
                    , had high rates of army enlistment. So did those that were strongly evangelical, such
                    as Farmland, 
                        New Garden
                    , Walnut Ridge, and New Holland.
            Indiana Friends had an alternative to military service that many supported, the Reconstruction Unit
                    of AFSC. Growing out of a conference held in 
                        Richmond
                    , AFSC was a leader in relief work in Europe during and after the war. Although 
                        Philadelphia
                     Friends were its driving force, a number of Indiana Friends served on its staff and
                    board. At least fifty members of Indiana Yearly Meeting traveled to 
                        France
                     as part of its Reconstruction Unit in 1917 and 1918. Most 
                  
                     18
                            Earlham (College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Ind.) Press, April 14, 1917; Thomas D. Hamm, Earlham College: A History, 1847-1997 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997), 126-27.
                  
                     19 Gerlof D. Homan, American Mennonites and the Great
                                War, 1914-1918 (Scotts-dale, Pa., 1994), 184; Elbert Russell, The
                                History of Quakerism (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 516; 
                                Brown
                            , "Quakers of Indiana in the War." The Friends who responded
                            to 
                                Brown
                            's questionnaire may have been inconsistent in how they defined
                            conscientious objection. 
                                Brown
                            , for example, shows no conscientious objectors at 
                                Wabash
                            , while the 
                                Wabash
                             history cited in note 17 shows three.
               
                    
                    
                  Military Service and Conscientious Objection in Indiana Yearly Meeting during World War I
                  
                     
                                Monthly Meeting
                            
                     #Draft Age
                     
                     #in Mil. Serv.
                     
                     #CO
                     
                  
                  
                     Amboy
                     92
                     19
                     29
                  
                  
                     Anderson
                     15
                     6
                     1
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Back Creek
                                
                            
                     26
                     6
                     6
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Carthage
                                
                            
                     62
                     16
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Chester
                                
                            
                     5
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Dublin
                                
                            
                     19
                     4
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Duck Creek
                                
                            
                     30
                     0
                     1
                  
                  
                     Economy
                     10
                     7
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fairmount
                                
                            
                     45
                     10
                     21
                  
                  
                     Farmland
                     16
                     4
                     1
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Greenfield
                                
                            
                     11
                     9
                     0
                  
                  
                     Greensfork
                     8
                     1
                     2
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Hopewell
                                
                            
                     2
                     4
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Knightstown
                                
                            
                     15
                     5
                     3
                  
                  
                     
                                Little Blue River
                            
                     20
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Marion
                                
                            
                     35
                     25
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Milton
                                
                            
                     6
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Muncie
                                
                            
                     118
                     24
                     (3?)
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    New Castle
                                
                            
                     26
                     17
                     1
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    New Garden
                                
                            
                     43
                     11
                     1
                  
                  
                     New Holland
                     9
                     5
                     0
                  
                  
                     Oak Ridge
                     39
                     4
                     4
                  
                  
                     Olive Branch
                     16
                     4
                     4
                  
                  
                     
                                Pleasant Valley
                            
                     18
                     4
                     8
                  
                  
                     Poplar Run
                     82
                     7
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Portland
                                
                            
                     8
                     3
                     5
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Salem
                                
                            
                     11
                     5
                     0
                  
                  
                     Shirley
                     14
                     3
                     3
                  
                  
                     S. 
                                    Marion
                                
                     
                     72
                     8
                     14
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Spiceland
                                
                            
                     75
                     24
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Springfield
                                
                            
                     12
                     3
                     0
                  
                  
                     Sycamore
                     20
                     6
                     0
                  
                  
                     Upland
                     12
                     0
                     3
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Wabash
                                
                            
                     20
                     29
                     0
                  
                  
                     Walnut Ridge
                     28
                     9
                     4
                  
                  
                     West Grove
                     23
                     4
                     1
                  
                  
                     West 
                                    Richmond
                                
                     
                     —
                     14
                     9
                  
                  
                     Westland
                     30
                     4
                     0
                  
                  
                     White Oak
                     12
                     0
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                     1105
                     307
                     124
                  
                  
                     Source: Althea 
                                    Brown
                                , "The Quakers of Indiana in the War," May 31, 1919
                                (Friends Collection, Earlham College, 
                                    Richmond
                                , Ind.)
                  
               
                     Indiana meetings provided support, giving either money or
                    clothing, an activity that continues down to the present day. AFSC would become more controversial
                    as, later in the century, it grew more radical and political in advocating peace.20
            
            World War I thus set a pattern for Indiana Friends. The yearly meeting would continue official
                    adherence to traditional positions, but most of the members would not consider them binding.
                    Pacifists would be a minority. World War II continued this trend.
            By the mid-1930s, pacifists, especially those in the Society of Friends, appeared to have reasons for
                    optimism. World War I had created a backlash against the use of military force, reinforced by
                    revelations of the machinations of bankers and armaments manufacturers who had seemingly duped the 
                        United States
                     into conflict. Certainly, as conflicts in Asia and Europe claimed increasing American
                    attention late in the decade, there is considerable evidence that Indiana Quakers opposed U.S.
                    participation. Anecdotal accounts suggest that the overwhelming majority were isolationist
                    Republicans in their sympathies. Earlham College President William C. Dennis was one of the
                    state's leading isolationist figures. In 1941 he toured the nation, speaking on behalf of
                    the America First Committee. "Every day I am more convinced that this is not our
                    war," he wrote to his congressman in 1940. When war broke out in Europe in 1939 the yearly
                    meeting sent a telegram to President Franklin D. Roosevelt stating its opposition to anything that
                    threatened American neutrality.21
            
            Isolationism was not necessarily pacifism; Dennis, for example, was outspoken in justifying defensive
                    war. Late in the decade, however, some saw encouraging growth in pacifist sentiment. The yearly
                    meeting's Peace Committee, headed by Earlham professor Perry Kissick, a conscientious
                    objector who had gone to jail during World War I, organized conferences and distributed literature.
                    At Earlham pacifist groups attracted broad student support. At the local level some Friends made
                    uncompromising pacifist commitments. In 1937, for example, twenty 
                        New Castle
                     Friends, led by pastor Howard W. Cope, recorded in the monthly meeting minutes their
                    determination "not to participate in the prosecution of any war of any nature."
                    Thirty Anderson Friends signed a similar statement.22
            
            
               
                  20 J. William Frost, "Our Deeds Carry Our Message: The Early
                        History of the American Friends Service Committee," 
                     
                                Quaker
                             History, LXXXI (Spring 1992), 1-51; Rufus M. Jones, A Service
                            of Love in War Time: American Friends Relief Work in Europe, 1917-1919 (
                            New York
                        , 19201, 267-82; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1918), 78; ibid. (1919), 80.
               
                  21 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1939), 41; Hamm, Earlham College, 169 "Friends Address the President," American Friend (June 5, 1941), 230; Lawrence W. Wittner, Rebels
                            against War: The American Peace Movement, 1945-1960 (
                            New York
                        , 19681, 1-33; Charles Chatfield, For Peace and Justice: Pacifism in
                            America, 1914-1941 (
                            Knoxville
                        , Tenn., 1971), 259-61, 295-96.
               
                  22 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1939), 36-40; 
                            New Castle
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh Month 8, 1937, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives;
                        Anderson
            
            
            When the U.S. entered the war after Pearl Harbor, most such sentiments evaporated. The editors of the
                        Earlham Post probably described the experience of most Indiana Friends:
                    "There is a minority which still holds that conflict was avoidable and to be regretted, but
                    what was for the most part a previously more or less isolationist campus swung quickly over to the
                    band-wagon with the national collapse of isolationist leadership." Willard Heiss, a Friend
                    from 
                        Randolph
                     County, doubtless stood for hundreds in believing that, at the time, the most important
                    thing in the world seemed to be stopping Hitler; he enlisted in the navy. Although the yearly
                    meeting did not compile numbers, a story in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star in 1943 estimated that 90 percent of the men of military age in the yearly
                    meeting were in the armed forces, a figure that some Friends thought accurate. At 
                        New Castle
                    , the proportion was 68 members in the military, 2 conscientious objectors.23
            
            All surviving evidence indicates that such 
                        Quaker
                     enlistees had strong support from Friends. First Friends in 
                        Marion
                    , like thousands of other churches, hung in its vestibule an "Honor
                    Roll" plaque with the names of members in the service. 
                        New Castle
                     Friends split over the idea; they compromised by posting both the names of soldiers and
                    of those in Civilian Public Service (CPS). The actions of West 
                        Richmond
                     Monthly Meeting, where support for peace activism probably ran stronger than in any
                    other meeting, were significant. Even before the U.S. entered the war West 
                        Richmond
                     recorded its decision that it would follow "with loving concern all of its
                    young men who are engaged these days in various forms of national service …. Respecting
                    and maintaining the sovereignty of the individual conscience, we freely concede to each other the
                    right and the responsibility of making his own decision on the basis of what seems to be the right
                    course for him to take." Two young Friends who enlisted, one from 
                        Dublin
                    , Indiana, and the other from West Elkton, 
                        Ohio
                    , recall that they had the full support of local Quakers; in fact, they had little
                    awareness of the Peace Testimony as they made their decisions. At least one pastor, Robert D.
                    Wilburn of 
                        Spiceland
                    , left his pulpit to join the army as a chaplain with the blessing of his monthly
                        meeting.24
            
            
               Monthly Meeting Minutes, Ninth Month 13, 1939, ibid.; Hamm, Earlham College, 156-58.
               
                  23
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, September 25, 1943; 
                            New Castle
                         (Ind.) Friendly News (March 1945), 2; Percy M. Thomas,
                        "The Cock Crows Twice," American Friend (November 18, 1943),
                        455-56; Hamm conversation with Willard Heiss, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1986. Nationally, Friends estimated that between 75 and 80 percent of eligible
                        members were in the armed forces. See Charles B. Hirsch, "Indiana Churches and
                        Conscientious Objectors During World War 11," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XL VI (June 1950), 146.
               
                  24 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1942), 25-26; Hamm
                        and Kern, Centennial Landmark, 17; West 
                            Richmond
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Sixth Month 12, 1941, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; 
                            Marion
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, March 9, 1950, ibid.; 
                            Spiceland
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Third Month 1, 1944, ibid.; Thomas D.
                        Hamm et al. interview with Ray E. Stewart, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., May 3, 1995, transcript,
            
            
            Some members used the war to advocate a new understanding of the Peace Testimony. Among them was
                    Dennis, a specialist in international law. He argued that since Friends approved of police forces,
                    they should support them on an international basis, distinguishing such "police
                    actions" under international auspices from traditional warfare. In 1943 the yearly meeting
                    debated Dennis's proposals; some journals, like Time magazine, gave them
                    wide coverage as a 
                        Quaker
                     endorsement of the war. A badly divided yearly meeting approved them with some
                    modifications; members differed about whether Dennis's ideas conflicted with traditional 
                        Quaker
                     teaching. The statement affirmed pacifism but also recognized divisions in the yearly
                    meeting. "We do not censure Friends who have conscientiously participated in any way in the
                    war effort," it recorded. "We know that it is extremely difficult for anyone to
                    avoid a relationship to the war and to maintain the status of an absolute pacifist and that we are
                    all in some way aiding the present conflict." The yearly meeting also endorsed the concept
                    of an international peacekeeping organization, recognizing that such an organization might well use
                    force "in a world accustomed to the use of force."25
            
            Some Friends took strong stands for traditional 
                        Quaker
                     pacifism. Percy M. Thomas, a well-known pastor and former clerk of the yearly meeting,
                    branded participation in the war a denial of Christ. When 
                        Spiceland
                     endorsed the decision of its pastor to become an army chaplain, the monthly
                    meeting's clerk (or presiding officer), Clara Symons, resigned in protest,
                    "stating that she could not conscientiously sign this minute." The most visible
                    means of protest was conscientious objection. When Congress approved conscription in 1940, a few
                    Indiana Friends recorded statements with their monthly meetings. Typical was 
                        Spiceland
                     Friend Stanton Baily, who wrote, "I believe that war is wrong …. I
                    believe that in war time a person can do nothing both to help democracy, or to put forward the
                    divine qualities of man, or to show a belief in the brotherhood of man,—than to protest
                    taking part in the military system." In January 1941 Milo S. Hinckle, then the yearly
                    meeting superintendent, urged pastors not to take ministerial exemptions, but to register as
                    conscientious objectors. There are no statistics on the number of conscientious objectors from the
                    yearly meeting. In the summer of 1941 a survey by the yearly meeting Peace Committee showed that 42
                    men in 16 meetings intended to become conscientious objectors, but some may have changed their
                    positions after Pearl Harbor.26
            
            
               Oral History Collection (Lilly Library, Earlham College); Hamm et al.
                        interview with Carl 
                     Jordan, Richmond
                  , Ind., May 17, 1995, transcript, ibid.
               
               
                  25 "Friends' Meeting is Divided on Dennis Peace
                        Resolution," 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Enquirer, September 25, 1943; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1943), 61-62, 71-72; "Indiana Yearly Meeting Resolutions: A
                        Symposium," American Friend (November 4, 19431, 436-41;
                        "Force or Power," Time (October 11, 1943), 46, 48.
               
                  26 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1941), 27-30; 
                            Spiceland
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Ninth Month 5, 1940, Third Month 1, 1944; Milo S. Hinckle,
                        "Will Quaker
            
            
            
               REV. R. D. WILBURN
                        OF SPICELAND
                        LEFT
                        HIS
                        CHURCH
                        TO
                        BECOME
                        AN
                        ARMY
                        CHAPLAIN
                        IN 1944.:
               Courtesy of Richard P. Ratcliff
            
            
               CLARA SYMONS, CLERK
                        OF
                        THE SPICELAND
                        MONTHLY
                        MEETING, RESIGNED
                        IN
                        OPPOSITION
                        TO
                        THE
                        CONGREGATION'S
                        SUPPORT
                        FOR WILBURN.:
               Courtesy of Richard P. Ratcliff
            
            Religious groups administered the CPS camps to which conscientious objectors were assigned during
                    World War II. AFSC oversaw the 
                        Quaker
                     camps, with Thomas E. Jones, an Indiana Friend and future president of Earlham, in
                    charge. Over the course of the war Indiana Yearly Meeting contributed about $30,000 to
                    CPS and 
                  Ministers Accept Exemption?" American Friend (January 2, 1941),
                            12; Thomas, "Cock Crows Twice." 455-56.
               
                     repeatedly commended its support to meetings and members. At
                    least two members of the yearly meeting, Earlham professors Ernest Wildman and Murvel Garner, took
                    leaves from the college to serve as camp directors.27
            
            
               
                        Greenfield
                     Monthly Meeting was frank in noting when one of its "boys" registered
                    as a conscientious objector that his was a "difficult stand." One public opinion
                    poll found that between 1940 and 1944 the Midwest changed; after having been the section of the
                    country most sympathetic to conscientious objectors in 1940, it became the least supportive in 1944.
                    Pacifist Friends found that non-
                        Quaker
                     neighbors neither wanted nor appreciated their activities. Ernest Mills, a Friend from 
                        Hopewell
                     Meeting in 
                        Henry County
                     and a member of the yearly meeting Peace Committee, chose not to take the agricultural
                    deferment that he almost surely would have received because he felt that he "must register
                    as great a protest as possible to this whole thing by stressing the C.O. position." He
                    fought a long battle with a hostile draft board, which was determined that 
                        Henry County
                     would have no "slackers," before gaining a conscientious objector
                    classification. One enlistee from West 
                        Richmond
                     was frank in writing to his pastor that "one has to have more gumption than I
                    to keep out of the conflict." In 1941 the yearly meeting Peace Committee bemoaned what it
                    saw as "the long failure to stress peace in local meetings." More disturbing was
                    opposition from other Friends. In some places the issue was so controversial that meetings refused
                    to discuss it. At one rural meeting in 
                        Randolph
                     County, for example, the sole conscientious objector, who had only recently joined the
                    meeting, found himself facing suspicions that he had become a 
                        Quaker
                     only to dodge the draft. James P. Mullin vividly remembered his experience in 
                        Richmond
                     working for AF'SC in 1941. AFSC wanted to open a CPS camp at Quaker
                        Hill on the northern edge of the city. This brought protests from the American
                    Legion, which objected to the planned presence of such "yellow-bellied slackers."
                    Public opinion quickly turned against the project. Several area Friends went to work to change
                    feelings, but they made little headway. Finally, Mullin told a conference of local Quakers
                    that" we need to … lay this concern before the First Friends Men's
                    Bible Class." Silence followed; then someone responded, "I think the
                    Men's Bible Class at First Friends will feel just like the American Legion does."
                    "You can see what that did to me inside. I was absolutely devastated," he recalled
                    fifty years later. "During that particular period of crisis, there wasn't support
                    here in the area for conscientious objectors." The yearly 
                  
                     27 George A. Scherer, Ernest Atkins Wildman: A
                                Biographical Sketch (
                                Dublin
                            , Ind., 1984), 54; "Civilian Public Service Information," American Friend (April 22, 19431, 159; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1943), 27-31; ibid. (1944), 49-51; ibid. (1945), 45; Thomas E. Jones, Light on the Horizon: The 
                                    Quaker
                                 Pilgrimage of Tom Jones (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1973), 135-50.
               
                     meeting admitted at the end of the war that "the
                    membership of Indiana Yearly Meeting has greatly departed from their testimony against all
                        war."28
            
            So, during what has come to be called "the good war," Indiana Friends continued the
                    course that they had set earlier in the century. Officially, they remained committed to the Peace
                    Testimony and to support of conscientious objection. For many Friends, these were fundamental 
                        Quaker
                     tenets for which they made real sacrifices. For most Indiana Friends, however, these
                    views had to give way to the need to combat evil. What is striking is that Friends'
                    disagreement about peace activism seemed to lack political consequences. In the 1950s, that changed,
                    following changes in the larger American peace movement.
            Many conscientious objectors were radicalized by their experiences in CPS; they spoke out not only
                    against injustices in the larger society but also against the churches for cooperating with the
                    military in administering the camps. Influenced by such views, AFSC announced that in future
                    conflicts, it would not compromise with the government. Increasingly, peace activists resisted war
                    and denounced the injustices that they saw underlying war. This often meant forming ties with
                    leftist political groups. Some Indiana Friends embraced this new peace activism, but many others,
                    including some who had previously been sympathetic, found it troubling.29
            
            From 1945 to 1955 the yearly meeting remained officially committed to the Peace Testimony. Statements
                    regularly came forth denouncing the draft and proposals for universal military training. In 1946,
                    for example, the yearly meeting condemned the latter "heartily and unhesitatingly"
                    and characterized it as "a most apt and dangerous instrument of authoritarian dictatorship.
                    We know of no other measure which strikes more directly at the very foundation of our free
                    society." Some monthly meetings and individual Friends sent letters to their congressmen in
                    this vein or collected funds to use in opposition.30
            
            
               
                  28 Charles B. Hirsch, "Conscientious Objectors in Indiana during
                        World War 11," Indiana Magazine of History, XL VI (March 1950), 71;
                        Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1941), 28; ibid. (1945),
                        47; Hamm et al. interview with James P. Mullin, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., May 10, 1995, transcript, Oral History Collection; Hamm et
                        al. interview with Ellen Stanley, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., April 19, 1995, ibid.; Howard Murdock to R. Furnas
                        Trueblood, [May 1942], West 
                            Richmond
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes; 
                            Greenfield
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh Month 23, 1942, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives;
                        Dorothy Heironimus, "Indiana Yearly Meeting Rises to Emergency," American Friend (October 9, 19411, 438; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 12, 1991; Hamm conversations with Ernest Mills, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1989-1994. Gregory P. Hinshaw of Farmland, Indiana, shared the story about
                        the 
                            Randolph
                         County C.O. in a conversation with Hamm, 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1992.
               
                  29 For recent developments in American pacifism see Charles Chatfield, The American Peace Movement: Ideals and Activism (
                            New York
                        , 1992), and Wittner, Rebels against War.
               
               
                  30 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1946), 58-59; Walnut
                        Ridge Monthly Meeting Minutes, Fourth Month 18, 1956; 
                            New Garden
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh
            
            
            The yearly meeting's Peace and Service Committee continued to work; they held conferences,
                    distributed literature, and in 1949, produced a "monthly peace program calendar."
                    At the local level pastors gave "peace sermons." Friends donated money, soap, and
                    old clothing to AF'SC for relief work, while women's circles contributed items
                    they sewed. Collections were taken for the Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL) to use
                    to lobby against new draft legislation. In 1948 
                        Wabash
                     Monthly Meeting sent information on conscientious objection to every minister in the
                    county. Friends at 
                        Fairmount
                    , Indiana, showed a movie about the horrors of atomic warfare. Pastors and other members
                    provided counseling on conscientious objection, and conscientious objectors continued to come from
                    meetings whose evangelicalism was unquestionable. Some meetings invited staff members from the Five
                    Years Meeting to speak on peace at worship or in Sunday school classes. In 1951 four 
                        Muncie
                     Friends traveled to 
                        Washington
                     at their own expense to lobby members of Congress.31
            
            While these manifestations of the Peace Testimony found support in the yearly meeting, others proved
                    more controversial. The most public disagreements came in 1948 and 1949, when eleven Earl-ham
                    College students, citing reasons of conscience, protested the newly enacted draft law by refusing to
                    register. Although only two of the students were members of the yearly meeting, the cases of all
                    received considerable publicity, and they left Earlham and Indiana Quakers facing a dilemma.
            Nonregistration first became an issue for Indiana Quakers in the summer of 1948. In July the Five
                    Years Meeting and Friends General Conference sponsored a peace conference at Earlham. Wide divisions
                    quickly became apparent, mirroring splits in the national peace movement. Traditional 
                        Quaker
                     pacifists were determined to take maximum advantage of provisions for conscientious
                    objectors in the recently approved draft law. Radicals wanted to protest the draft by refusing to
                    register. The conference participants, running out of time and unable to reach consensus, let a
                    subcommittee summarize the conference's conclusions. The result was radical, especially
                        
                  Month 14, 1948; 
                                Muncie
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, First Month 16, 1952, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives;
                            "The Fight against Universal Military Training," American
                                Friend (February 24, 1955), 54; "Friendly Life Far and Near," ibid. (January 17, 1952), 28.
                  
                     31 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1946), 53-54;
                                ibid. (1947), 25-26; ibid. (1949), 48; 
                                Greenfield
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Sixth Month 28, Eighth Month 26, 1948, Seventh Month
                            27, 1950; 
                                New Garden
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh Month 11, 1956; Oak Ridge Monthly Meeting
                            Minutes, Tenth Month 6, 1954, First Month 5, 1955; 
                                Wabash
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Eighth Month 29, 1948, Second Month 17, 1949, Fourth
                            Month 1, 1953; 
                                Marion
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Ninth Month 9, 1954; 
                                Portland
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, June 2, 1949, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; 
                                Muncie
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh Month 12, 1950, Tenth Month 18, 1950, Fourth
                            Month 18, 1951, Seventh Month 16, 1952; "Friendly Life—Far and
                            Near," American Friend (February 17, 1949), 61; ibid. (February 26, 1953), 79.
               
                     the statement that "We warmly approve civil
                    disobedience under Divine Compulsion as an honorable testimony fully in keeping with the history and
                    practices of Friends." For many Indiana Friends, this was too much, especially after the 
                        Richmond
                     American Legion came into possession of some pamphlets distributed at the conference by
                    a radical absolute pacifist group, the Peacemakers, and branded them "criminally
                    seditious." Leading Indiana Quakers such as Errol T. Elliott, editor of the American Friend, and Earlham president Thomas E. Jones, quickly distanced themselves from
                    the conference. Soon Indiana Friends had to deal with the Earlham draft resisters.32
            
            The draft resisters, not all of whom were Quakers, all cited religious convictions in refusing to
                    register. Even to give their names voluntarily to the government was a compromise with evil, to do
                    something that Christ would not do. In 1949 the yearly meeting endorsed their right to take this
                    position. "We believe that every young man who, under a sense of religious compulsion,
                    feels that he must refuse to comply with the Draft Law, at any point, should follow the supreme
                    authority of his inner guide," the yearly meeting recorded. "We believe that every
                    Christian and every Christian Church body should encourage and support him in his loyalty to the
                    highest that he knows." Clyde Harned, a member of Richsquare Meeting in 
                        Henry County
                    , was more direct; responding to the publisher of the 
                        Richmond
                     daily newspaper that vociferously denounced the "draft dodgers,"
                    Harned wrote, "Your editorials stink." Mills, the new clerk of the yearly meeting
                    Peace Committee, headed an informal committee to raise funds for the nonregistrants' legal
                    defense, while Earlham professors Wildman and George Scherer, both members at West 
                        Richmond
                    , administered the funds.33
            
            Most Indiana Friends, even those who respected conscientious objection, apparently looked askance at
                    such activities. Robert N. Huff, a 
                        Richmond
                     Friend, doubtless spoke for them in arguing that very few Quakers were such
                    "zealots"; Huff was sure that most Indiana Friends viewed nonregistration as
                    simple lawbreaking. While Earlham president Jones refused to condemn the nonregistrants publicly,
                    neither did he endorse their decision. Privately he tried to persuade them to change their minds, as
                    did D. Elton Trueblood, a member of the Earlham faculty and the best known Friend in the 
                  
                     32 "Advices on Conscription and War," American Friend (August 5, 1948), 259; "Civil Disobedience?" ibid. (September 2, 19481, 183; "Trouble Bubbles," Earlhamite, LXX (Winter 19491, 4; Wittner, Rebels against
                            War, 156-67.
                  
                     33 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1949), 27-28;
                            Clyde Harned Letter, clipping, April 19, 1949, Conscientious Objector File, Controversial
                            Issues Collection (Lilly Library, Earlham College); 
                                Muncie
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Eighth Month 17, 1949; Contributors List, 1950, Ernest
                            E. Mills Papers (Lilly Library, Earlham College); Hamm, Earlham College,
                            211-17.
               
                     yearly meeting. 
                        Muncie
                     was the only meeting to take up a collection for the defense fund. Even there only four
                    Friends made a donation.34
            
            The willingness of some Indiana Friends to question pacifism publicly is even more striking. While
                    Jones at Earlham remained personally a pacifist, he was also a passionate supporter of the United
                    Nations, and he argued that the Korean War was a "police action" that did not
                    violate the 
                        Quaker
                     testimony against war, a view that Elliott thought had merit. Philip Johnson, the
                    pastor at West Elkton, 
                        Ohio
                    , cited the defeat of Hitler as evidence of the impossibility of pacifist methods:
                    "Fortunately for the pacifist," he wrote, "the majority of men are
                    willing to meet evil with adequate means, even if that means war." Pacifists, he argued,
                    were proponents of "a false doctrine and a dangerous practice." Trueblood, who
                    served as an official in the Eisenhower administration in 1954-1955, was equally emphatic. In 1956
                    he denounced proposals by Democratic presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson to end both the draft
                    and atmospheric nuclear weapons tests: "The 
                        Quaker
                    , providing he is sincere about wanting peace, will not try to undermine the deterrent
                    power of the West, as a few misguided ones do now."35
            
            In the years following the Korean War tensions over pacifism erupted into open conflict in at least
                    one meeting. 
                        Dublin
                     was polarized between Friends who were World War I veterans and members of the American
                    Legion and pacifists like Mills and Ray Stewart, a World War II veteran who had resigned a
                    lieutenant colonel's commission when he became convinced that war was wrong. The breaking
                    point came in 1956, when nonpacifists forced the dismissal of a pastor who was an articulate peace
                    advocate. The pacifists left to take over the nearby 
                        Hopewell
                     meetinghouse, which had been closed a few years earlier. There they made the reborn
                    meeting an outspoken advocate of peace.36
            
            The split at 
                        Dublin
                     and the formation of 
                        Hopewell
                     Meeting highlighted new lines of cleavage in the yearly meeting. With the onset of the
                    Cold War, fear of communism pervaded American society, and Indiana Friends shared such fears.
                    "With communism creeping in our government, schools and churches as it is we must seek
                    God's grace often," Walnut Ridge Friends recorded. In the minds of many Americans,
                    pacifism was tinged with "procommunism." Neighbors 
                  
                     34 Hamm et al. interview with Lorton Heusel, 
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., January 25, 1990, transcript, Oral History Collection; Hamm et al. interview with D. Elton Trueblood, Lansdale, Pa., April 20, 1994, ibid.; Robert N. Huff to J. Douglass Foster, March 16, 1949, Conscientious
                            Objectors File; Huff to 
                                Milton
                             Mayer, July 7, 1949, ibid.; Hamm, Earlham
                                College, 212-17; 
                                Muncie
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Eighth Month 17, 1949.
                  
                     35 Hamm, Earlham College, 218-19; "
                                Korea
                             and Pacifist Ideology," American Friend (August 17,
                            1950), 263-64; Philip Johnson, "Pacifism and Crisis," ibid. (January 12, 1953), 55-56; "Request for Views," ibid. (November 15, 1956), 361.
                  
                     36 Interview with Stewart; Ray E. Stewart to D. Elton Trueblood et al., August 11, 1956, and attachment, 
                                Hopewell
                             Monthly Meeting Historical and Miscellaneous Papers (Lilly Library, Earlham
                            College).
               
                     labeled 
                        Hopewell
                     Meeting "the place where communism is supported." And certainly many
                    pacifist Friends combined their peace advocacy with liberal politics and theology. American Friend advocated a nuclear test ban and recognition of Red 
                        China
                    . It condemned loyalty oaths and McCarthyism. "Thought control wrapped in the
                    American flag is just as repugnant and as dangerous as thought control bearing the stamp of the
                    hammer and sickle," it editorialized. Members of the yearly meeting expressed increasing
                    discomfort with AFSC, which was becoming more leftist in its politics. In 1960 the editor of the 
                        Richmond
                     daily newspaper, a member of First Friends Meeting there, wrote articles attacking a
                    local AFSC youth camp as being under communist influence, charges that many in the yearly meeting
                    echoed in an acrimonious debate. The editor claimed that "reds" were using
                    gullible Friends to undermine national defense. Perhaps in reaction to such developments, the yearly
                    meeting Peace Committee increasingly stressed the Christian and biblical bases of the Peace
                        Testimony.37
            
            Throughout this period, local meetings and the yearly meeting were frank in acknowledging the limits
                    of their peace witness. Some meetings admitted that they had no members capable of counseling young
                    men about conscientious objection. "As we look over the last year's work we
                    realize very little has been done in the name of Peace," Walnut Ridge Friends recorded in
                    1949. "We are still weak in our Peace Testimony," was the conclusion at 
                        Portland
                     six years later. That same year Friends at 
                        New Garden
                     noted that the only activity of its Peace Committee in the past year had been to
                    collect a free will offering to be sent to AFSC for clothing for refugees. "It is with
                    grave concern that we note the indifference and in many meetings the complete disregard of some
                    members to the basic teachings of the Society of Friends," the yearly meeting told members
                    in 1948. "We deplore the trust our members put in military preparedness and use of force as
                    a substitute for Christ's teaching of Love and Brotherhood among all men." In 1952
                    the Peace Committee reported that it found little interest in its activities because "the
                    Peace Testimony of Friends is neglected in all too many of our monthly meetings."38
            
            
               
                  37 "Friends and Loyalty Oaths," American
                            Friend (December 18, 19521, 418; "How New Will Be Our Foreign
                        Policy?" ibid. (January 1, 1953), 4; "Editorial,"
                            ibid. (August 27, 1953), 264; William J. Reagan, "A Political
                        Choice," ibid. (December 17, 1953), 395; H. Stanton Baily,
                        "A Plea for No Flags," ibid. (October 22, 19531, 331;
                        interview with Stewart; interview with Stanley; Stewart to Trueblood et al.;
                        Edward H. Harris to Stewart, October 26, 1960, 
                            Hopewell
                         Papers; H. Stanton Baily et al. to "Dear
                        Friends," Ninth Month 6, 1960, ibid.; 
                            Richmond
                         (Ind.) Palladium-Item, June 22, 23, 1960. For AFSC in the 1950s
                        see Wittner, Rebels against War, 228 29; and Susan Lynn, Progressive Women in Conservative Times: Racial Justice, Peace, and Feminism, 1945 to the
                            1960s (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1992), 68-110.
               
                  38 Walnut Ridge Monthly Meeting Minutes, Seventh Month 14, 1949; 
                            Portland
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Sixth Month 2, 1955; 
                            New Garden
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, July 13, 1955; Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1948), 44-45; ibid. (1952), 45, 66.
            
            
            Indiana Yearly Meeting's response to the 
                        Vietnam
                     War reflected this reality. In its official actions the yearly meeting called for a
                    negotiated peace and affirmed its support of conscientious objectors. Active antiwar activity was
                    largely confined to theologically liberal Friends in a small number of meetings, especially West
                            
                  Richmond, Hopewell
               , and Clear Creek, the last a new meeting, founded in 1950 and
                    held on the Earlham College campus. By 1967 more conservative Friends were responding to the antiwar
                    movement with protests of their own, denouncing what they saw as its "un-American"
                    bent.
            AFSC was among the first organizations to express concern about American involvement in 
                        Vietnam
                    . In 1965 Indiana Yearly Meeting approved a statement by Wilmer Cooper, the dean of the
                    Earlham School of Religion and a member of West 
                        Richmond
                     Meeting, "appeal[ing] to all nations and parties to this dispute for a
                    ceasefire, and an end to fighting, and a peaceful solution." A year later the yearly
                    meeting endorsed a national call for an "open-ended cease fire," an end to US.
                    bombing, and negotiations by all parties. The yearly meeting repeatedly urged monthly meetings to
                    provide draft counseling and support for conscientious objectors. Still, after 1966 the yearly
                    meeting minutes show little relating specifically to the war, other than in reports from AFSC and
                        FCNL.39
            
            Some individuals and meetings were extremely active in upholding conscientious objection and opposing
                    the war. Lorton Heusel, the general secretary of Friends United Meeting, in 1972 signed a national
                    statement of religious leaders opposing the 
                        Vietnam
                     War; Earlham College president Landrum Bolling, a member at West 
                        Richmond
                     who was avowedly not a pacifist, signed a similar statement of college presidents. The
                    staff at 
                  
                            Quaker
                         Life, the successor to American Friend and the organ of
                    Friends United Meeting, regularly ran articles supporting a wide variety of antiwar activities,
                    ranging from conscientious objection to active involvement in the antiwar movement. The yearly
                    meeting did not collect statistics on conscientious objection, but scattered records and anecdotal
                    evidence indicate that some 
                        Quaker
                     young men affirmed the traditional stance and registered as conscientious objectors.
                    Some came from meetings not known for political or doctrinal liberalism. At least one 
                        Spiceland
                     Friend took the extreme step of returning his draft card to his draft board. A few
                    Friends in 
                        Richmond
                     withheld from their telephone bills the special excise tax that Congress had imposed to
                    help pay for the war. Beginning in 1966 a group of Earlham students and faculty, the latter largely
                    members of Clear Creek Meeting, began regular antiwar vigils in downtown 
                        Richmond
                    . Friends at 
                        Hopewell
                     were especially 
                  
                     39 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1965), 14, 91;
                                ibid (1966), 95-96; ibid. (1967), 46; ibid. (1968), 14-16, 38-40, 81. See also the essays in Chuck Fager, ed., Friends and the 
                                    Vietnam
                                 War: Papers and Presentations from a Pendle Hill Conference, Bryn Mawr, 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , July 16-20, 1998 (Wallingford, Pa., 1998).
               
                    
                    
                  PEACE VIGIL, EARLHAM COLLEGE, 1966:
                  Lilly Library, Earlham College
               
                     vigorous, urging the yearly meeting to take a more active role
                    in opposing the war, writing antiwar letters to local newspapers, and arranging for materials on
                    conscientious objection to be distributed to local high school students.40
            
            The 
                        Vietnam
                     War exposed and probably widened fissures in the yearly meeting. While there are no
                    statistics available, observers agree that a majority of young men of draft age in the yearly
                    meeting were not conscientious objectors. Some members of the yearly meeting openly backed the war,
                    while others were vocal in dissociating themselves from the antiwar movement in general and liberal 
                        Quaker
                     antiwar activists in particular.
            Among the members of the yearly meeting who were public supporters of the war was David W. Dennis, a
                    member of West 
                        Richmond
                     Meeting and the son of William C. Dennis; he was elected to Congress as a Republican in
                    1968, where he consistently supported Nixon administration policies. More vexing to liberal Friends
                    was the support of the war by Trueblood, unquestionably the yearly meeting's best-known
                    member. Trueblood valued his personal ties with Nixon and consistently argued that Nixon's
                    "Peace with Honor" policies were in accord with 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs. Trueblood, while upholding the integrity of conscientious objectors, blasted
                    the New Left elements of the antiwar movement. There is no doubt that Dennis and Trueblood spoke for
                    many Indiana Quakers, like those at 
                        Greenfield
                     who in 1967 recorded their "support to the 
                        United States
                     Government in its actions to protect the free peoples of the world from Communism, at
                    home, in Viet Nam, and elsewhere."41
            
            Open conflict grew first out of the activities of AFSC and an offshoot, A 
                        Quaker
                     Action Group. AFSC not only opposed U.S. policy but argued that it had a moral duty to
                    help heal the wounds of war in North 
                        Vietnam
                     by supplying medicines and artificial limbs. Fearful of prosecution and of endangering
                    other projects, it backed down. But in 1967 A 
                        Quaker
                     Action Group, which described itself as "radical Quakers who believe the Peace
                    Testimony should be taken seriously," chartered a ship, the Phoenix, to
                    deliver medical supplies to Hanoi. The 
                  
                     40 Interview with Stewart; interview with Stanley; Hamm et al. interview with Thomas J. Mullen, 
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., May 10, 1995, transcript, Oral History Collection; Hamm, Earlham College, 263, 267-68; Clear Creek Monthly Meeting Minutes, Fourth Month
                            12, 1970 (Lilly Library, Earlham College); West 
                                Richmond
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, Fifth Month 11, 1967; Nettle Creek Monthly Meeting
                            Minutes, Second Month 11, 1968, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; "A Call to a 
                                Quaker
                             Witness against the Indochina War," May 3, 1972, Indiana Yearly
                            Meeting Executive Committee Papers, ibid. The 
                                Hopewell
                             Monthly Meeting records in Earlham's Lilly Library contain extensive
                            materials on opposition to the war.
                  
                     41 David W. Dennis Congressional newsletters, May 7, November 20,
                            1971, Alumni Collection (Lilly Library, Earlham College); D. Elton Trueblood, "The
                            Vocation of Peacemaking," 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Life, XI (April 1970), 116; Trueblood, "Prisoners of
                            War," ibid., XIV (May 1973), 35; James R. Newby, Elton Trueblood: Believer, Teacher, and Friend (
                                San Francisco
                            , Calif., 1990), 148-51; 
                                Greenfield
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, September 10, 1967.
               
                    
                    
                  D. ELTON TRUEBLOOD:
                  Lilly Library, Earlham College
                voyage took place amidst considerable publicity and demands by "hawks"
                    that the Phoenix crew be prosecuted. Some Indiana monthly meetings openly
                    condemned the venture; 
                        Greenfield
                     urged banning "the use of the name Friends or 
                        Quaker
                    " for "subversive programs" and advocated
                    "restraining publicity reflecting adversely on the Society of Friends." 
                        Spiceland
                     pronounced itself "bothered by the actions that appear to be detrimental to
                    the body and people of the Religious Society of Friends and to the people of the 
                        United States
                    . Specifically the trip of the Phoenix." Two years later, an
                    appearance by a member of the Phoenix crew at 
                        New Castle
                     Meeting, which was relatively liberal, had to be cancelled after fierce protests from
                    some members. One, a veteran, reportedly threatened to sit on the front row and wave an American
                    flag throughout the speech.42
            
            
               
                  42
                        
                            Greenfield
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Eighth Month 27, 1967; 
                            Spiceland
                         Monthly Meeting Minutes, Ninth Month 24, 1967; 
                            Fountain City
                         Monthly Meeting to
            
            
            Divisions like these underscored the discomfort of socially and politically conservative Friends with
                    the drift of American society in the late 1960s: they simply could not endorse lawbreaking. The case
                    of the 
                        Spiceland
                     Friend who returned his draft card demonstrated the hostility of Indiana Yearly Meeting
                    Friends to civil disobedience. 
                        Hopewell
                     Friends took the lead in raising a defense fund; the 
                        Spiceland
                     pastor told them that he dared not even propose discussing support from 
                        Spiceland
                    , because it would split the meeting. The contrast with the Friends' reaction
                    to the Earlham draft resisters in 1949 is striking; then the yearly meeting expressed sympathy for
                    their actions. No endorsements of civil disobedience were forthcoming in the late 1960s; at least
                    two monthly meetings specifically condemned it. Patriotism played a part as well; most Indiana
                    Friends considered themselves intensely loyal Americans, and they doubted whether that was true of
                    many protesters. Antipathy to AFSC, which took the lead in 
                        Quaker
                     antiwar activities, doubtless played a part as well. "I was aware of an
                    enormous amount of violent, negative reaction against AFSC in most of the circles I moved in
                    … in this yearly meeting," one prominent Friend remembered. Criticism of AFSC
                    ranged widely. Many Indiana Friends saw it as a bastion of theological liberalism; one Friend noted
                    that the most furious denunciations of the Phoenix came from fundamentalist
                    Friends in the yearly meeting. Such theological conservatives could respect conscientious objection
                    but found peace advocacy frightening. In turn, the meetings most involved in peace activities, such
                    as West 
                        Richmond
                    , Clear Creek, and 
                        Hopewell
                    , were the most theologically liberal in the yearly meeting. Indiana Quakers had been
                    riven by the same issues that split the larger society.43
            
            A century after it first began to tolerate active participation in war by members Indiana Friends
                    were still pondering the Peace Testimony. Officially and institutionally, they remained committed to
                    it; as recently as 1990 the yearly meeting recorded its opposition to the use of force in the Gulf
                    War. Increasingly, however, Indiana Friends have become part of the world around them. A small
                    minority 
                  Indiana Yearly Meeting, September 26, 1967, 
                                Fountain City
                             Monthly Meeting Historical Papers, Indiana Yearly Meeting Archives; Henry
                            Harris, "A Phoenix Sailor Answers Your Questions," 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Life, VII (June 1967), 193-95; Tom Wells, The War Within:
                                America's Battle over 
                                    Vietnam
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1994), 88-91.
                  
                     43 Interview with Stewart; Hamm et al. interview
                            with Virgil Peacock, 
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., May 17, 1995, Oral History Collection; Hamm et al.
                            interview with Harold Smuck, ibid.; Stewart to Eddy Cline, April 10, 1968, 
                                Hopewell
                             Papers. For a hostile and controversial critique of AFSC politics in the 1960s
                            see Guenter Lewy, Peace and Revolution: The Moral Crisis of American
                            Pacifism (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1988), 26-55. For a more balanced account see Brock and
                            Young, Pacifism in the Twentieth Century, 338-45. For a useful general
                            overview of Friends United Meeting and the war see Johan Maurer, "Was There a War
                            Going On?" in Friends and the 
                                    Vietnam
                                 War, ed. by Fager, 306-29.
               
                     of pacifist Friends sympathized with the larger peace movement,
                    with the political implications that entailed. The majority, who no longer considered themselves
                    pacifists, became much like their neighbors. The uncertain status of the Peace Testimony thus
                    reflects wider uncertainties that most American Quakers have faced in reconciling their heritage
                    with the larger culture.44
            
            
               
                  44 Indiana Yearly Meeting, Minutes (1991), 34.
            
         
         
         
            The Great Migration in Gary, Indiana (1906-1920): A Note
            Nelson Ouellet∗
            
            This article discusses a selection of primary sources used to study the black population of Gary,
                    Indiana, from 1906 to 1920.1 The sources include federal manuscript census
                    schedules, city directories, school enumerations, and marriage application records.2 Through a brief description of each type of document, the author will try to underline the
                    importance of name-based sources in the study of the Great Migration and examine ways social
                    historians can make the most of the wealth of the information contained in them.
            This research note also addresses three concerns raised by the critics of the Great Migration
                    literature: that migration should be studied as a process; that black women and their families
                    should be included in this process; and that smaller "promised lands" (like Gary)
                    should be considered by historians.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ Nelson Ouellet is assistant professor of history,
                        Université de Moncton, Moncton, 
                     New
                                Brunswick, Canada
                  .
               
                  1 Nelson Ouellet, "Migration et relations interraciales. Les
                        Noirs américains de Gary, Indiana, 1906-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        Université de Montréal, 1996).
               
                  2 Obviously, these documents are not the only primary sources available to
                        examine the twentieth-century northern migration of African Americans to Gary, Indiana. Other
                        sources include, for example, local newspapers, Sanborn fire insurance maps, papers of the
                        National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (Gary files), and indexes of birth,
                        marriage, and death compiled by the Works Progress Administration. However, these will not be
                        examined here. The sources discussed reflect the author's experience in attempting to
                        reconstruct the entire black population of Gary before 1920, using the resources of the Calumet
                        Regional Archives (Indiana University Northwest), in Gary, Indiana. The decision to focus on
                        name-based sources was made after the first two research trips. While the manuscripts and
                        archival records available at the Calumet Regional Archives are rich, some sources were not very
                        helpful in building a database for an entire group of individuals. Documents such as the Mid
                        City Investment Company records have, nevertheless, unique qualities that will soon be exploited
                        to enrich the database on the black population of Gary, Indiana. The database has also been
                        supplemented by interviews with migrants. Compare these sources with the list of documents used
                        by Joe W. Trotter and Earl Lewis, eds., African Americans in the Industrial Age: A
                            Documentary History, 1915-1945 (
                            Boston
                        , 19961, 307-12.
               
                  3 Ouellet, "Migration et relations interraciales," 8-30;
                        Darlene Clark Hine, "Black Migration to the Urban Midwest: The Gender Dimension,
                        1915-1945," in Joe William Trotter, Jr., ed., The Great Migration in
                            Historical Perspective (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1991), 127-54. For other historiographical essays on the Great Migration see
                        Trotter, Black Milwaukee: The Making of an Industrial Proletariat, 1915-1945 (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 19851, 264-82; Trotter, "Black Migration in Historical Perspective:
                        A Review of the Literature," in Great Migration in Historical
                        Perspective, ed. Trotter, 1-21; Trotter,
            
            
            Federal Manuscript Census Schedules
            The richest sources for research on the Great Migration are the 1910 and 1920 federal manuscript
                    census schedules.4 As is well known, these government records contain an
                    impressive body of information on the population of the 
                        United States
                    : name, sex, race, age, and marital status, along with place of residence, tenure,
                    relation to the head of the family, citizenship status, place of birth, level of education, and
                    occupational condition.5 While helping to confirm basic facts such as
                    migrants' birthplace (Gary's black migrants were born mainly in states located in
                    the East South Central region), the federal manuscript census schedules also offer unique
                    opportunities to present a more complete picture of the migrant population. In the case of Gary,
                    this author found that African Americans migrated in families, not as
                    "solitaires." This finding suggests that the occupational analysis of migrants
                    needs to be placed in a family context; women and children family members could migrate to a city
                    that offered them limited employment opportunities because the wage-earning potential of their adult
                    male family members was adequate to provide for them if all family members contributed their
                    services (including children, who attended school to improve the family's future
                    prospects).
            Since the manuscript schedules have been used extensively in the last thirty years by social
                    historians, it would be superfluous to try to add to a body of work that convincingly established
                    the value of census-based research. However, to make sure future historians of the Great Migration
                    profit from the recent availability of the 1920 federal manuscript census schedules (March 19921,
                    one thing must be repeated: historians need to complement the census by looking at other name-based
                    sources, mainly because it is only by reducing their dependence on "snapshots"
                    produced once per decade that scholars will truly improve the quality of their results.6
            
            
               "Black Migration Studies: The Future," in ibid., 147-54;
                        Robert Gregg, Sparks from the Anvil of Oppression: 
                                Philadelphia
                            's African Methodists and Southern Migrants, 1890-1940 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 19931, 1-17. See also Kenneth W. Goings and Raymond A. Mohl, eds., The New African American Urban History (Thousand Oaks, Calif., 19961, 1-16; Gretchen
                        Lemke-Santangelo, Abiding Courage: African-American Migrant Women and the East Bay
                            Community (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 19961, 1-9.
               
                  4 The first study on the Great Migration to be based on the 1920 federal
                        manuscript census schedules is Beverly A. Bunch Lyons, "And They Came: The Migration of
                        African-American Women from the South to 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ,
                        1900-1950" (Ph.D. dissertation, Miami University [
                            Ohio
                        ], 1995).
               
                  5 For studies on the census see Margo J. Anderson, The
                            American Census: A Social History (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1988); Patricia Cline Cohen, A Calculating People (
                            Chicago
                        , 1982); Kellee Green, "The Fourteenth Numbering of the People: The 1920
                        Federal Census," Prologue, XXIII (Summer 19911, 131-45; W. Stull
                        Holt, The Bureau of the Census: Its History, Activities and Organization (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1929); Carroll D. Wright and William C. Hunt, History and
                            Growth of the 
                                United States
                             Census (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1900).
               
                  6 Surely, the detailed and direct perspective on the migrants provided by
                        these sources makes them uniquely valuable, but it is mostly historians who establish
            
            
            City Directories
            City directories often serve as complements to the census.7 Published on an
                    annual basis, they are particularly helpful to historians who wish to improve their knowledge of
                    local populations in the interval between each decennial census.
            Scholars studying black migrants to Gary will find the most complete collection of city directories
                    at the Gary Public Library. Four considerations should make it clear, however, that the Gary city
                    directories are not rich enough to be the only supplement to the federal manuscript census
                    schedules. First, even if all city directories enumerated the black residents of Gary, only three
                    directories (out of the nine available between 1910 and 1920) list African Americans with reference
                    to their racial identity: those of 1911, 1913, and 1918. Second, these alphabetical lists of names
                    give too little information on each individual.8 Third, like information in the
                    federal census, the data in city directories represent a snapshot of the population visited.
                    Finally, the focus on the adult male population and the absence of listings for children make it
                    impossible to study women and family life.
            To state that city directories have limits does not mean that they cannot be used to understand
                    historical change. The Gary city directories are particularly rich for labor history, whether the
                    objective is to compile facts on labor, civic, and business organizations and leaders or to study
                    the occupational and geographical distribution of the population at specific times. The number of
                    laborers working in the steel mills serves as an example.
            The number of workers employed by the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation in Gary at different times can be obtained from three sources: census
                    data, information collected from the superintendent of the Gary Works, and city directories.
                    Unfortunately, all are not equally revealing. The census data cover only two years (1910 and 1920),
                    which makes it hard to know exactly when the numbers in the labor 
                  weblike connections between them (e.g., family reconstitution) that obtain greater
                            results. For record linkage in longitudinal studies see Theodore Hershberg, Alan Burstein,
                            and Robert Dockhorn, "Record Linkage," Historical Methods
                                Newsletter, IX (March/June 1976), 137-63; Gérard Bouchard, "The
                            Processing of Ambiguous Links in Computerized Family Reconstruction," Historical Methods, XIX (Winter 1986), 9-19; Geraldine P. Mineau, Lee L. Bean, and
                            Douglas L. Anderton, "Description and Evaluation of Linkage of the 1880 Census to
                            Family Genealogies: Implications for 
                                Utah
                             Fertility Research," Historical Methods, XXII (Fall
                            1989), 144-57.
                  
                     7 See Peter Knights, "City Directories as Aids to Ante-Bellum
                            Urban Studies: A Research Note," Historical Methods Newsletter,
                            II (September 1969), 1-10; Elizabeth Hafkin Pleck, Black Migration and Poverty, 
                                    Boston
                                , 1865-1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1979); John Bodnar, Roger Simon, and Michael Weber, Lives of
                                Their Own: Blacks, Italians, and Poles in 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                , 1900-1960 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1982).
                  
                     8 Besides the usual name, address, and occupation, the
                            employer's name was often published. The only other information available was
                            marital status, but it required some interpretation from the researcher that could not be
                            used to identify single persons.
               
                     force increased during the decade. While the numbers obtained by
                    John Foster Potts from the superintendent of the Gary Works offer some information of this kind,
                    they are nonetheless problematic because they include residents and nonresidents alike.9 City directories, while far from being perfect, provide the researcher with
                    the opportunity to enrich the information found in decennial censuses and selective interviews.10 City directories fill in the gaps left by census data in two ways: their
                    analyses improve our understanding of the shifting impact of U.S. Steel on the local economy, and
                    they confirm that the hiring of black steelworkers between 1916 and 1919 was no more than a
                    temporary and highly selective response to pressures exerted by the reduction of immigration and
                    working-class protest. In comparison with the information presented by Potts, data collected from
                    city directories make it clear that almost a quarter of the labor force at the Gary Works commuted
                    to work on a daily basis, which should make scholars more aware that the realities observed in one
                    city may have an impact upon its neighbors.
            Marriage Application Records
            Used mostly by genealogists interested in retracing family roots, marriage records have become an
                    important source of knowledge for social historians since the 1960s.11 The
                    marriage records for Gary are located in the offices of the 
                        Lake County
                     Clerk in 
                        Crown Point
                    , Indiana. An Indiana marriage record includes two separate documents: the marriage
                    license and the marriage application forms (one for each spouse). The first record is a marriage
                    certificate, signed and sealed by officials of the state and county. It provides little information
                    (name, date, and county), and none that is relevant for a study dealing with migration and family
                    strategies. The second record, considerably longer, is a form each spouse had to file to apply for a
                    marriage licence. Clearly, attention should be given to the latter.
            
               
                  9 John Foster Potts studied the black population of Gary in a
                        master's thesis he completed in 1937. For the results of his interview with the
                        superintendent of the Gary Works see John Foster Potts, "A History of the Growth of the
                        Negro Population of Gary, Indiana" (Master's thesis, Cornell University,
                        1937), 7.
               
                  10 City directories have received their share of criticism in the last
                        thirty years. Recently, however, scholars have presented a more nuanced picture of their
                        usefulness and reliability. For example, historians admit that problems such as underenumeration
                        and misspelling are influenced by the size of a city: city directories of large urban centers
                        usually record a higher percentage of errors than those of small urban centers. Our own detailed
                        analysis of underenumeration and misspelling has shown that other factors besides the size of a
                        city may help reduce the number of errors found in city directories of small urban centers like
                        Gary: the distinction between racial and ethnic patronymics; the influence of local (political)
                        events on the perception of enumerators; and the impact of the labor market on the presence of
                        respondents. See Nelson Ouellet, "The Flaws of Enumeration Events and African-American
                        Urban History," paper in the author's possession.
               
                  11 For the most interesting use of marriage records in a study of black
                        migration see Pleck, Black Migration and Poverty.
               
            
            
            
               INDIANA
                        MARRIAGE
                        APPLICATION
                        FORM, 1919:
               
                  
                            Lake County
                         Clerk's Office
            
            
            
               INDIANA
                        MARRIAGE
                        APPLICATION
                        FORM, 1919:
               
                  
                            Lake County
                         Clerk's Office
            
            
            The "race" section is certainly one of the most important elements of the marriage
                    application, for it gives the researcher an opportunity to use an individual's racial
                    identity to speed up the process of data collection. But the county also asked applicants to
                    identify themselves by name, age, and sex, and also to give the state information such as place of
                    birth, residence, and the occupations of themselves and their parents. Of course, these forms are
                    too extraordinary a source to ignore.
            Microfilmed copies of marriage application forms can be obtained in the microform room of the 
                        Lake County
                     Clerk's office. Because there is no index of African Americans who married in 
                        Lake County
                     early in the century (the Works Progress Administration marriage index does not
                    identify the "race" of each spouse), direct access to the microfilmed records is
                    crucial, and that requires a special permission from the Clerk's office. In the
                    author's study, more than 1,782 individual forms (or 891 couple's applications) of
                    African Americans living in Gary who applied for a marriage license in 
                        Lake County
                     between 1906 and 1920 were photocopied, and their information was entered into a data
                    base.
            The information on place of birth and residency are extremely useful to fill in the gaps left by city
                    directories and the federal manuscript census schedules on migration patterns. Unlike the federal
                    population census (both in published and manuscript forms), in which data on birthplace are confined
                    to the state or country of birth, marriage application records identify both the state and also
                    (most importantly) the city and county of birth and residence of each individual whose name appears
                    on the form. For example, the marriage application records helped this author show that fewer than
                    20 percent of the migrants had left a rural setting before arriving in Gary. Also, whether because
                    they were born in southern cities, or had lived outside the cotton belt, it was revealed that more
                    than 80 percent of Gary's black migrants were not "pushed" out of the
                    South by the boll weevil. Furthermore, the findings based on marriage application records confirmed
                    the results found in the census regarding the relation between migrants and their families, since
                    more than 40 percent of the applicants whose parents were still alive had left the South in their
                    company and lived with them in Gary.
            These results are unique for two reasons: first, historians of the Great Migration have rarely worked
                    with sources such as manuscript censuses (the number of researchers dwindles almost to nothing if we
                    include the 1920 census); second, historians have generally used statistics (compiled and published
                    by the Bureau of the Census) that do not distinguish a place of birth from a place of exodus, a
                    fundamental consideration in any migration study.
            
            School Enumeration Records
            The 
                        Lake County
                     school enumeration records are another important source of information to study black
                    migrants to Gary "from the bottom up." Produced annually by the state of Indiana
                    from the late nineteenth century until 1931, they are kept at the 
                        Lake County
                     Public Library in Merrillville, Indiana.12
            
            The school enumeration records are censuses of the school age population that were done under the
                    jurisdiction of the state superintendent of education, whose responsibility it was to supervise the
                    work of county officers in charge of the annual collection of information. Several amendments to the
                    state school law modified the nature of the school enumerations, the most significant one being the
                    March 8, 1873, amendment that stipulated, for the first time, that separate schedules had to be
                    provided for black children.13
            
            The school enumeration records contain the following sections: name, age, sex, race, address, place
                    of birth, occupation, and parents' names. For 
                        Lake County
                    , these censuses were taken from 1880 to 1931, when a new method of allocating state
                    revenues caused them to be abandoned.14 For the city of Gary and for the period
                    from 1906 to 1920, the available manuscripts cover nine years: 1909, 1910, 1911, 1913, 1915, 1916,
                    1917, 1919, and 1920. Schools include Froebel, Beveridge, 25th Avenue, and Jefferson.15
            
            As another source that covered interdecennial years, the school enumeration records add to the
                    richness of any data base on Gary's black population, particularly with regard to children
                    and their families. With them, one can follow children from school to the labor market and marriage
                    and examine their experiences in a family context. As the school enumerations give the
                    children's "occupation" (whether he or she was going to school or
                    working), they help explain why so many migrated to the steel city between 1906 and 1920 and show,
                    for the entire period, what their role within the family was: some were students, who were
                    encouraged to improve their lot in the community, and others were secondary workers on whose help
                    families 
                  
                     12 Ana Grandfield, librarian at the 
                                Lake County
                             Public Library, gave me permission to use these records. She also lent me a
                            copy of her paper, "
                                Lake County
                             Schools Enumeration Records, 1880-1931" (copy in author's
                            possession).
                  
                     13 Indiana, Laws (1873), 70. It is one of the
                            ironies of segregation that historians working today on such documents take advantage of the
                            fact that they were produced and filed separately from the others. Unlike the federal
                            population census schedules, which list African Americans according to the
                            enumerator's order of visit, Indiana's school enumerations are one of many
                            "segregated" sources produced in the 
                                United States
                             that enable researchers to go through the records without any time-consuming
                            "explorations."
                  
                     14 Gee Indiana, Laws (1932), 202-204.
                  
                     15 I also used the 1923 and 1924 school censuses to see if the
                            children who were near working-age in 1920 had left school and gone into the labor market
                            before they reached the age of twenty one. The 1921 and 1922 school censuses were not found
                            in the boxes.
               
                    
                    
                  PORTION
                            OF INDIANA SCHOOL ENUMERATION FORM, LAKE COUNTY, 1922:
                  Courtesy of 
                                Lake County
                             Public Library, Merrillville
               
                     depended to make ends meet. In particular, this
                    researcher's analysis of these documents revealed that boys worked more often than girls;
                    that reaching age twenty one did not mean leaving the family, especially for girls; and that school
                    attendance laws influenced entry into the labor market as much as family needs and civic
                    responsibility. Thus, the school enumeration records constitute an excellent source to give gender
                    its due attention; more generally, it is a way to reconstruct the experiences of those who left no
                    written records.
            The school enumeration records also permit researchers to compare the strategies of Gary's
                    black families with those of black families in rural and urban areas of the postbellum South. By
                    looking at the school enumeration records, and tying the results to other sources, the role each
                    individual played within the household can be presented in a nuanced fashion: the impact of the
                    local community never overshadows the experiences African Americans brought with them from the
                    South. Through this approach, the author concluded that work and education were two elements that
                    had shaped families' decisions since Emancipation and was able to establish how a better
                    understanding of the migration process begins with the idea of tradition, or the connection between
                    place of birth and exodus and place of destination. In fact, to study migrants' adaptation
                    to urban life in the North strictly from the perspective of the destination is methodologically
                    wrong, mainly because it neglects how African Americans coped with similar situations before their
                    arrival in cities of the North and how earlier experiences were tools to improve their condition,
                    whether socially, economically, or politically.
            Other Horizons
            Other name-based sources can be used to enrich the study of the Great Migration, namely birth and
                    death records and the census index known as the Soundex. They help to improve the analysis of family
                    strategies, migration patterns, and, ultimately, traditions. Unfortunately, for financial, legal,
                    and logistical reasons these records are not always easily accessible. Where, then, should social
                    historians look for alternative documents?
            The Freedmen's Bureau records, the Public Use Samples of the 
                        United States
                     population censuses of 1880, 1900, 1910, and 1920, and legal sources such as state laws
                    and cases brought before state and federal courts are some of the sources historians of the Great
                    Migration should consider carefully.16 Consulting these records, 
                  
                     16 The Freedmen's Bureau records used in the
                            author's dissertation were reports by General Commissioner Howard and the assistant
                            commissioners of the states of 
                                Alabama
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                            . The Public Use Samples (PUS) were those made available by the Inter-university
                            Consortium for Political and Social Research. See Steven Ruggles and Russell R. Menard, Census of Population, 1880 [
                                United States
                            ]: Public Use Sample (Computer file; 
                                Minneapolis
                            , Minn., 1994); Samuel H. Preston and Robert L.
               
                     researchers can follow the fluctuations in labor force
                    participation of black women since Emancipation, the effects of educational resources upon children,
                    and connections between the North and the South that considerably improve the assessment of
                    migrants' conception of freedom, justice, civic responsibility, and work.
            Scholars in future should consider extending the use of the Freedmen's Bureau records to
                    understand how the "contract" system in use in the postbellum South influenced the
                    collective identity and the political education of African Americans, the material culture and
                    survival strategies of freedmen, and the sexual division of roles within the black family.17 Simultaneously, the researcher should return to the Soundex and other
                    name-based sources to study more extensively the South that black migrants living in Gary had left.
                    By asking the same questions in different historical environments and bringing together all the
                    separate findings, it will ultimately become possible to write a new history of the transition
                    "from plantation to ghetto," one in which a redefined Great Migration—
                    not limited to the period from 1915 to 1945, but extending from Emancipation to the civil rights
                    movement—will be the subject.
            Conclusion
            This analysis of new and old sources available for studying the black population of Gary, Indiana,
                    attempts to overcome the weaknesses of traditional studies of the Great Migration. The analysis
                    poses a fundamental challenge to researchers for two reasons. First, studies based on the sources
                    discussed here succeed better than earlier methodologies in showing the migration process
                    "from the bottom up." Second, these same studies, when based on sound
                    methodologies 
                  Higgs, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Census Data, 1900: Public Use Sample (Computer file; Seattle, Wash.,
                            1980); Samuel H. Preston, Census of Population, 2910 [
                                United States
                            ]: Public Use Sample (Computer file; 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1989). The 1880 PUS was described and presented earlier by Steven Ruggles and
                            Russell R. Menard, "A Public Use Sample of the 1880 U.S. Census of
                            Population," Historical Methods, XXIII (Summer 1990), 104-15;
                            Steven Ruggles, "Comparability of the Public Use Files of the U.S. Census of
                            Population, 1880-1980," Social Science History, XV (Spring 1991),
                            123-58. Researchers at the 
                                Minnesota
                             project, which Ruggles and Menard are leading, recently completed the 1/100
                            sample of the 1920 census. For details see the special issue of Historical
                                Methods, XXVIII (Winter 1995) and the web site at http://www.ipums.umn.edu/. The
                            legal documents referred to are the 
                                Alabama
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                             session laws for the period from 1865 to 1920 and cases brought before state
                            and federal courts that were related to the black experience: especially school laws,
                            segregation statutes, and miscegenation cases.
                  
                     17 On the Freedmen's Bureau records see the documents
                            uncovered by the editors of the Freedmen and Southern Society Project (FSSP) that were
                            presented in Freedom: A Documentary history of Emancipation, 1861-1867 (
                                New York
                            , 1982-1990). Four volumes have been published, and five more will soon be
                            completed. For more on FSSP see the website at
                            http://www.inform.umd.edu/ARHU/Depts/History/Freed-man/home.html. Interest in the
                            Freedmen's Bureau records developed from an essay written by Armstead L. Robinson,
                            "The Difference Freedom Made: The Emancipation of Afro-Americans," in
                            Darlene Clark Hine, ed., The State of Afro-American History: Past, Present, and
                                Future (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1986), 51-74.
               
                     and historical problems that are well conceived, go so far as to
                    call into question findings obtained through more traditional documentary research.
            This comment should not be interpreted as a call to abandon traditional sources like newspapers,
                    published government statistics, personal papers of "talented tenth"
                    representatives and those produced by organizations such as the National Association for the
                    Advancement of Colored People and the National Urban League. Nor should it be seen as an attempt to
                    claim that name-based sources are more valuable than manuscript and archival records in the study of
                    the Great Migration. It is rather intended to stimulate a dialogue between sources that have so far
                    been isolated from one another. Name-based sources can direct the historian's attention to
                    the lives of "ordinary people," to the study of migration from the perspective of
                    families or of women and children as they interact with male breadwinners. Without this attention
                    historians of the Great Migration can contribute little to understanding the actual process of
                    migration. Therefore, the way one determines the differences between life in small towns and large
                    urban centers will remain incomplete as long as similar studies are not undertaken for cities like
                            
                  Chicago, New
                            York
               , Milwaukee, 
                  Detroit, Philadelphia
               , or 
                        Cleveland
                    .
            In 2002 the 1930 federal population census schedules will become available. Therefore it is a fitting
                    time to consider the best ways to use this new source of information to study black migrants in the
                    first year of the Great Depression. The challenge issued in this essay for scholars to expand the
                    use of name-based sources is intended to initiate a debate on the obstacles and rewards of
                    census-based research in preparation for the rich new opportunities soon to be opened.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Window to a Changed World: The Personal Memoirs of William Graham. Edited by
                    Donald L. Parman. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1998. Pp. mix, 289. Notes, illustrations, map, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            A wonderful introduction to nineteenth-century Indiana Methodists, a counterview to the mythologizing
                    of Methodism by the Peter Cartwrights, a depiction of Methodist machinery in evolution, William
                    Graham's memoirs and Donald L. Parman's editing deserve high praise. Midwesterners
                    wanting to understand early Methodism could find no better starting place.
            The book succeeds in evoking an institution in transition, both because Graham clearly set out to
                    describe both his own life and that of the church and because Parman follows Graham's
                    narrative with almost every kind of explanation and apparatus one can imagine. In a seventeen-page
                    introduction informed by recent scholarship on Methodists and Indiana, Parman situates Graham in a
                    church evolving into a middle-class denomination that embraced education and a professional ministry
                    and made itself at home in ever finer buildings. Throughout, Parman translates technical and
                    idiosyncratic Methodist language into terms readily comprehensible to those unfamiliar with the
                    denomination. In elaborate glossaries of place names (pp. 197-205) and personal names (pp. 207-63),
                    he describes Graham's world and those who peopled it (examples are captured in fifty
                    pictures and plates). The glossary of names is a who's who of national Methodists, and its
                    sources are itemized in an eight-page bibliography. The index includes not only places, persons, and
                    events but also terms such as superannuation, love feasts, quarterly meetings, presiding elders,
                    class leaders, and other Methodist mysteries.
            Mysterious Graham was not. Indeed, he typifies border state Methodist clergymen. Born in 1821 into a
                    Pennsylvania family that produced several Methodist ministers, and converted at eight
                    "under the teaching of my Mother," he was licensed to preach in 1844 in the
                    citadel of the denomination, the 
                        Baltimore
                     Conference. Graham moved west to begin his ministry in the 
                        Arkansas
                     Conference, served several years in Indian missions (Indian Mission Conference), and
                    married a southerner, Mary Kinnibrugh. The 1844 split of episcopal Methodists put Graham in the
                    southern church, from which he extricated himself with a request for a transfer, the first of
                    several overtures made by or to him about changes in appointment. He moved to North Indiana in 1847
                    and served in Indiana conferences until his death in 1897. Graham paid his dues, rising from junior
                    circuit preacher through a succession of important station appointments. Earning a reputation as a
                    church builder and troubleshooter, he was early appointed presiding elder. In this post, now termed
                    district superintendent,  which was perhaps the key strategic
                    post for nineteenth-century Methodist churchmen, Graham served twice, 1853-1857 and 1867-1874.
                    Graham divulges little about his exercise of the office, how appointments were made, what he and
                    other presiding elders did when huddled with the bishop. Indeed, seldom in the Memoirs does he permit himself introspection (he does not, for instance, say much about
                    slavery). Graham played other important roles, about which he also reflects little—twice
                    member of general conference, booster of Methodist colleges (trustee, visitor, agent), board member
                    of conference and national agencies, on the publishing committee of the Northwestern
                        Christian Advocate, and conference secretary. Not an astute analyst of his own actions,
                    Graham nevertheless was a good observer and commentator on the roles of others and of their exercise
                    of authority and power. And it is this that makes the book such a helpful window on Methodism in
                    evolution.
            I commend the book highly.
            RUSSELL E. RICHEY, professor of church history at Duke
                    University, is coauthor of several books on Methodist history; his most recent book is
                    Connectionalism: Ecclesiology, Mission, and Identity, coedited with Dennis M. Campbell and William
                    B. Lawrence(1977). He is at work on a history of American Methodism.
         
         
            
               Giants in Their Tall Black Hats: Essays on the Iron Brigade. Edited by Alan T.
                    Nolan and Sharon Eggleston Vipond. (Blooming-ton: Indiana University Press, 1998. Pp. xii, 238.
                    Illustrations, maps, tables, notes, bibliography, index. $27.95.)
            This book is a collection often essays on various aspects of the history of the Iron Brigade, which
                    consisted of the 19th Indiana Regiment of Volunteers and three regiments from 
                        Wisconsin
                     until October 1862, when a regiment from 
                        Michigan
                     was added. After its heavy losses at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , the brigade lost the distinction of being the only all-western brigade in the Army of
                    the Potomac when various eastern units were added to it during several reorganizations. Throughout
                    the war, but especially during its all-western phase, the unit's courage and discipline
                    earned it the sobriquet of Iron Brigade. Its exploits have inspired numerous books and articles by
                    both academic and amateur historians.
            The editors of Giants in Their Tall Black Hats "focus on
                    stories—told in the words of the men who fought and suffered …" (p.
                    xii). They present narrative treatments of battles (Brawner Farm, South
                    Mountain, 
                  Antietam, Gettysburg
               , Fitzhugh's Crossing, and the
                    Wilderness), officers (the role of General John Gibbon and of General John F. Reynolds), bystanders (
                        Virginia
                     tenant farmer John C. Brawner's efforts to get compensation for alleged
                    damages to his property), the uses of the brigade's battle flags after the war, the
                    brigade's long relationship with fellow-unit Battery B of the Fourth US. Artillery, and the
                    experience of combat.
            
            The strengths of the book's essays are those characteristic of Civil War scholars who work
                    outside of the academy, as do the authors represented in this volume: an extensive familiarity with
                    primary sources and strong narrative writing. Despite these strengths, even the Civil War buffs who
                    seem to be the book's intended audience may be disappointed because there is little that is
                    new in most of these essays. And Hoosier readers may be especially disconcerted by the
                    book's heavy emphasis on 
                        Wisconsin
                     materials: many of the articles use few or no primary sources from the men of the 19th
                    Indiana, and the bibliography cites few Indiana secondary or governmental sources. The authors
                    virtually ignore the literature on common soldiers by James M. McPherson, Reid 
                        Mitchell
                    , Earl J. Hess, Joseph T. Glatthaar, and Gerald Linderman.
            There is new material in the first and last essays: Alan T. Nolan's "John
                    Brawner's Damage Claim" and Richard H. Zeitlin's "In Peace and
                    War." Both of these articles have tantalizing possibilities, but neither author fully
                    develops them.
            THOMAS E. RODGERS, adjunct professor of history at the
                    University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    , is the author, most recently, of "Dupes and Demogogues: Caroline
                    Krout's Narrative of Civil War Disloyalty," Historian (Spring
                    1999).
         
         
            
               The Country Contributor: The Life and Times of Juliet V. Strauss. By Ray E.
                    Boomhower. (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana, Inc., 1998. Pp. xxiv, 160. Notes, illustrations,
                    appendices, select bibliography. $24.95.)
            When author Juliet Strauss died at her home in 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana, in 1918, she was well known, both in Indiana and in the nation; her
                    "Country Contributor" column was regularly published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, and her column in the Ladies Homes Journal, "The
                    Ideas of a Plain Country Woman," was read by approximately one million readers each month.
                    Today she is scarcely remembered: her only book is out of print, and her role in saving the
                    woodlands that became Turkey Run State Park is largely unknown.
            Ray Boomhower, in writing a well-researched and very readable biography of this woman, rescues her
                    memory, and the excerpts from Strauss's writings in the book's appendices give a
                    feel for both her style and her basic convictions.
            In 1863 Juliet Humphries was born in 
                        Rockville
                    , where she lived her entire life. After her father's death when she was four,
                    Juliet and her three siblings were reared by their mother, who provided books and a happy home,
                    though they were poor.
            At the age of seventeen Juliet married a local boy who later became the editor of the 
                        Rockville
                    
                    Tribune, and she became a full-time homemaker and mother of two daughters. In
                    1893, the first of the weekly columns she was to write for twenty-five years appeared in  her husband's newspaper. She discussed local events, but she
                    also reflected on the meaning of her life, offering the viewpoint of a plain country woman who
                    enjoyed being a homemaker and rearing her family. This continued to be her theme throughout her
                    writing career.
            In 1903 the "Country Contributor" column began to appear in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News and was immediately successful. In 1905, Edward Bok, editor of the Ladies Home Journal, asked her to write a regular column. A little over a year
                    later he declared hers to be one of the most successful features the Journal had
                    published. In 1908 her columns from the Journal appeared as a book.
            In 1915, when she was at the height of her powers as a popular lecturer, author, and columnist, she
                    became passionately interested in saving a large tract of virgin woodland where she had played as a
                    child. Strauss contacted many people to try to avert the sale of the land to timber buyers. She was
                    able to interest Indiana Governor Samuel Ralston, Richard Lieber, and many others, and together they
                    persuaded the state to conserve the acreage as the Turkey Run State Park, as part of
                    Indiana's centennial celebration.
            After Strauss's death in 1918, the Women's Press Club coordinated donations for a
                    memorial in Turkey Run State Park, and in 1922 a statue by 
                        Indianapolis
                     sculptor Myra Richards was dedicated to Strauss's memory.
            Juliet Strauss's writings were enormously popular in her time. To modern ears, her
                    exhortations on the duty of a woman to serve her family's needs in the home and to
                    sacrifice any ambitions of her own may seem outdated, but her appreciation of the value of the
                    simple life, devoid of artifice, rings as true as ever. Raised in a small Hoosier community she
                    never left, she preached to a national audience the values she had learned there. Hard work,
                    self-sufficiency, kindness, love of family, and acceptance of one's lot in life were the
                    virtues she recommended to others and practiced in her own life.
            ELEANOR ARNOLD is a farm homemaker. She is editor of the
                    six-volume oral history series Memories of Hoosier Homemakers (1983-1990). She is
                    currently editing family history papers.
         
         
            
               Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Edited by Richard Ulack, Karl Raitz, and Gyula Pauer. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. xii, 316. Illustrations, maps, figures, tables, selected bibliography,
                    index. $39.95.)
            All citizens in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    —especially those who are geographers, historians, state officials, and
                    philanthropists— should note that their 
                        Ohio
                     River neighbor, 
                        Kentucky
                    , has produced a splendid prototype for a state reference book. This new Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               , like its predecessor in 1977, is published in a reader-friendly rectangular
                    shape (10 inches "north-south" by 14 inches "east-west")  that is optimal for state maps. This magnificently illustrated
                    atlas, published at a remarkably reasonable price, will attract readers from teenage to old age,
                    especially if they live in, travel in, or have roots in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The atlas is a cooperative effort by university departments and state agencies, spearheaded by
                    editors from the geography department at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Editor-in-chief Richard Ulack has worked closely with coeditor Karl Raitz and
                    cartographic editor Gyula Pauer, both of whom helped produce the 1977 Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Five other major participants in the new atlas are identified on the title
                    page, and twenty-four additional contributors are listed on page vi.
            An astonishing variety of maps, statistical graphs, and photographs are carefully integrated with
                    essays to make this atlas far more than a collection of maps; it is a well-balanced geographic
                    synthesis of 
                        Kentucky
                     landscape and life. More than 600 color maps appear in five different scales, each of
                    which can be viewed with plastic overlays (in pocket) showing county boundaries and names. The
                    thirteen chapters and the frontispiece feature superb oblique air photos in natural color, all of
                    them (as well as some thirty others) taken by Keith Mountain, a geographer at
                    the University of 
                        Louisville
                    . Most of the ground level photos—at least fifty—were contributed
                    by coeditor Raitz, an astute observer of landscapes for more than thirty years.
            While the Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        's point-of-view is geography rather than history, it not only tells
                    what the place called 
                        Kentucky
                     is like but also explains its significance in relation to its surroundings—
                    regional, national, world. Good geographic description of the spatial dimension is explained within
                    the temporal or historical dimension. Chapter 1, "
                        Kentucky
                    : Its Setting," recognizes the importance of the past as does chapter 2,
                    "The Natural Environment." The thirty-two pages in chapter 3, "Historical
                    and Cultural Landscapes," offer an impressive array of illustrations depicting the human
                    occupance and modification of the 
                        Kentucky
                     landscape.
            Following the three-chapter overview are ten thematic chapters, each prepared by scholars with
                    special expertise. Organized in an almost sequential pattern, the chapter topics include:
                    "Population"; "Social and Economic Characteristics";
                    "Mineral, Energy, and Timber Resources"; "The Agricultural
                    Landscapes"; "Manufacturing"; "Transportation and
                    Communications"; "Tourism and Recreation"; "The Political
                    Landscape"; "The Urban Landscape"; and "
                        Kentucky
                     in the Future."
            At least twenty comprehensive state atlases planned and edited by geographers were published in the
                    1970s and 1980s, while during the last decade three have appeared 
                        Arkansas
                     (1989), 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (19891, and 
                        Florida
                     (1992). More attempts have been made during  the
                    past fifty years in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     than in Indiana to publish cartographic portraits of state history and geography. Yet
                    the three oldest states in the Northwest Territory have yet to produce a my-integrated geographical
                    or thematic atlas. In 1970 the much underfunded Atlas of Indiana appeared as a
                    small softbound volume featuring early computer maps by the late Robert C. Kingsbury of Indiana
                    University.
            One hopes that geographers and historians in Indiana as well as in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     are already engaged in preparing state atlases for the twenty-first century. If so,
                    they may be hard pressed to match The Atlas of 
                            Kentucky
                        .
            
            JOHN V. BERGEN, professor emeritus of geography at Western 
                        Illinois
                     University, grew up in 
                        Ohio
                     and received his doctorate from Indiana University. He is author-editor of
                        The Atlas of 
                            Johnson County
                        , Indiana: 1820 to 1900 (1983).
         
         
            
               The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Frontier. By Mark Wyman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1998. Pp. xviii, 336. Illustrations, maps, essay on sources,
                    index. $29.95.)
            The editors of the series in which The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Frontier is published claim that "you will find this history
                    informative and lively," (p. xiii) and that it certainly is. Mark Wyman begins with the
                    voyages of John Cabot, Giovanni da Verrazano and Jacques Cartier along the Atlantic seaboard and the
                        St. Lawrence River. After a chapter on Indian life before contact with
                    Europeans, he traces the growth of the fur trade between the French and Indian peoples, the
                    international competition for 
                        Wisconsin
                     resources, and the changes produced by American control of the region after the War of
                    1812. The history is not only a diplomatic study of competing interests but also a study of the
                    social, cultural, and environmental changes over three centuries of settlement.
            In a concluding chapter, fittingly entitled "Legacies," Wyman evaluates the
                    environmental costs of exploiting the area of 
                        Wisconsin
                     for profits. Here he also considers 
                        Wisconsin
                    's frontier from the perspectives of the writer Hamlin Garland and the
                    historian Frederick Jackson Turner. Although both wrote to correct eastern notions, they perceived
                    society and life on the frontier differently. Garland, a writer of the realist school, presented a
                    frontier complete with all its wrinkles, warts, and misery. Turner, a Progressive, took an expansive
                    view of the frontier story, applauding the economic growth and progress of the region as it passed
                    from wilderness to civilization. Wyman also includes Indian people in his account of the
                    post-frontier period. He records their names for geographical features as well as their
                    participation in the cultural exchanges in the "middle ground where the races met.
            
            Wyman's work is a valuable contribution that will be a welcomed resource for courses on the
                    frontier in the Midwest and in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            ROBERT E. BIEDER, adjunct professor at Indiana
                    University's School of Public and Environmental Affairs, is author of Native
                        American Communities in 
                            Wisconsin
                        : A Study of Tradition and Change (1995) and "Sault Ste. Mane and the
                    War of 1812: A World Turned Upside Down in the Old Northwest," Indiana
                        Magazine of History (March 1999).
         
         
            
               Home and Away: The Rise and Fall of Professional Football on the Banks of the 
                            Ohio
                        , 1919-1934. By Carl M. Becker. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1998. Pp. xvii, 367. Map, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $36.95; paper-bound, $19.95.)
            Most sports historians consider the state of 
                        Ohio
                     to be the cradle of American professional football and such teams as the Canton
                    Bulldogs and the Massillon Maroons the foundation stones for the future success of the sport. As a
                    result, the National Football League (NFL) Hall of Fame is in Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    . In Home and Away, Carl M. Becker amplifies this history by
                    chronicling the rise and fall of professional football in another area of the state, the
                        Ohio River communities of Portsmouth and Ironton, 
                        Ohio
                    , as well as Ashland, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Using old newspaper articles, Becker unearths the origins of the Ohio River
                    teams in the 191Os, their popularity in the 1920s, and, in the final third of the book, he explains
                    the surprising entrance of the Portsmouth Spartans into the young NFL in 1930. By this time, the NFL
                    had evolved from its small-town origins, but the Portsmouth Spartans fielded an excellent squad:
                    they played in the 1932 championship game against the 
                        Chicago
                     Bears, and they might have survived except for the Great Depression. Their departure to 
                        Detroit
                    , where they became the Lions, marked the end of major professional football in this
                    region of 
                        Ohio
                     and, except for the Green Bay Packers, in small-town America.
            Becker tells his story clearly and well, and the University of 
                        Ohio
                     Press has published it in an exceptionally handsome edition. But finally, at its
                    center, the book contains a serious flaw. Except for the depression, the author rarely connects his
                    team-by-team and game-by-game story to wider events. Home and Away is sports
                    history at its most detailed, but, like so many works of that genre, it exists mainly in a sports
                    vacuum, only sporadically connected to the deeper social currents of the time.
            In contrast, the best book on the early days of pro football in Indiana, Emil Klosinski's
                        Pro Football in the Days of Rockne (1970), is much more modestly printed and
                    much richer in content. Becker never mentions Klosinski's book or the Indiana connections
                    to the  NFL, but, considering that the Hoosier history features
                    the legendary coach, Knute Rockne, and such players as George Gipp, Becker's 
                        Ohio
                     parochialism does not serve him well.
            Finally, however, both Becker's book and Klosinski's contain one similar and
                    ongoing theme that is extremely important for the historical record: they describe in great detail
                    the corruption in college football during the first decades of this century and how almost every
                    semi-pro and professional football team recruited college players for Sunday games, usually
                    disguising their identities and paying them various amounts of cash. All of this contradicts the
                    standard histories of intercollegiate athletics, which depict this era as a golden age of
                    amateurism. Becker and Klosinski provide irrefutable evidence of the early professionalism of many
                    college athletes, and this aspect of their books serves as a valuable antidote to the official
                    histories published by various schools as well as the National Collegiate Athletic Association.
            MURRAY SPERBER, professor of English and American studies
                    at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is the author of a number of books about college sports, the most recent of which is
                        Onward to Victory: The Crises That Shaped College Sports (1998).
         
         
            
               Mountain People in a Flat Land: A Popular History of Appalachian Migration to
                        Northeast 
                            Ohio
                        , 1940-1965. By Carl E. Feather. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1998. Pp. xxvi, 255. Notes, map, illustrations, references, index.
                    $39.95.)
            It is unfortunate that one of this country's largest internal migrations has gone unnoticed
                    by most historians. Hundreds of thousands of people from the southern Appalachian
                        Mountains flooded the Midwest during and after World War I and continued to do so
                    through the 1950s, leading jokesters to remark that the new capital of West 
                        Virginia
                     was Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    . Carl E. Feather's book, Mountain People in a Flat Land,
                    attempts to explain the experiences of that multitude by focusing on 
                  Ashtabula County, Ohio
               , in the far northeast corner of the state. The son of West Virginians who
                    came north in 1956, Feather, a local journalist, highlights the ambivalence associated with leaving
                    home to put food on the table and dispels the nasty stereotypes leveled against the migrants. His
                    work is intended to be a "popular, oral history," he disclaims early on, not a
                    "genealogical research tool, social or economic history, or textbook of
                    migration." It is about "common people in search of a better life" (pp.
                    11-12).
            The author is forthright in his acknowledgment that 
                        Ashtabula County
                     was not the destination that Akron, 
                  Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus
               , or 
                        Hamilton
                     were, but that admission neither discounts the importance of his book nor detracts from
                    its potential. Indeed, that Feather is able to construct a story about a second-tier destination
                    shows how pervasive southern white migration in general  and
                    Appalachian migration in particular were in the Midwest. Requiring less adjustment from migrants
                    than the inner city ports of entry of 
                        Ohio
                    's larger cities, 
                        Ashtabula County
                     "provided hundreds of southern highlanders with the same opportunities
                    … without the stresses inherent in an urban atmosphere" (p. 28), which was
                    exactly the reason why similar migrants could be found in cities and towns
                    throughout Indiana.
            Feather listened and gathered other people's stories, invoking the wonderful metaphor that
                    he was "but a weaver working with borrowed yarn" (p. xxv). In mini-chapters that
                    accent individuals whom Feather characterizes as heroic, he enriches the understanding of the larger
                    migrant experience by describing the range of migrant life: gardening, apple butter production,
                    kinship, religion, cultural persistence, intercultural growth, music, retirement. All of the
                    vignettes show the mountaineer migrant finding the economic success that prompted migration in the
                    first place, a refreshing twist on a story long plagued by an emphasis on maladjustment and economic
                    failure.
            A professional historian can find things with which to quibble. Feather occasionally lags far behind
                    current Appalachian historiography, such as when he lists cultural characteristics of migrants, and
                    at times he clearly loses critical detachment in setting his informants on so high a pillar
                    ("Appalachia gave the North its very best, hardest-working, most resourceful and ambitious
                    individuals" [p. 10]). But if good history is good storytelling, this book is largely
                    successful. What he has spun with borrowed yarn is a splendid tapestry of a long-neglected
                    experience.
            CHAD BERRY, teaches at Maryville College, Maryville, 
                        Tennessee
                    . His book, Southern Migrants, Northern Exiles, is just out from the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press.
         
         
            
               For Courageous Fighting and Confident Dying: Union Chaplains in the Civil War.
                    By Warren B. Armstrong. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1998. Pp. xii, 171. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            In this slim but impressive volume, Warren B. Armstrong tells the story of those who provided
                    spiritual sustenance for Union army troops. "Giving the chaplains a direct voice"
                    (p. x) to express their own thoughts and describe their diverse activities throughout the Civil War,
                    Armstrong shows the government's efforts to meet the religious needs of its soldiers, the
                    character and duties of the chaplains, and the value of their service, both to those who saw combat
                    and to those victimized by slavery. The result is a carefully researched and richly informative
                    addition to a mushrooming body of scholarly works on religion during the war.
            From the beginning the book reveals how the war transformed military chaplaincy. While previously the
                    chaplain's primary role  had been to invoke divine
                    sanction for military actions, the Civil War introduced "the idea of service to the
                    soldiers" (p. ix). Pastoral care thus became the central duty of chaplains.
            Starting small, with only thirty post chaplains in Union ranks when Sumter fell, their numbers grew
                    rapidly after May 1861, when the War Department issued General Orders numbers 15 and 16, which
                    provided for chaplains in volunteer regiments as well as in new units of the professional army.
                    Controversies arose regarding their role in the army, their status, and the way they should
                    function. Questions of remuneration and rank—and therefore of their standing in the armed
                    forces—shaped numerous congressional debates about chaplains, as did the requirements for
                    their appointment to posts. Moreover, as pastors began to function in military positions, they faced
                    a number of problems: regimental officers who resisted religious services or were openly
                    antagonistic toward the "Holy Joes"; surgeons who set rigid rules restricting the
                    activities of hospital chaplains; the stark reality of an underlying incompatibility between war and
                    the Judeo-Christian ethic; and the drunkenness, profanity, gambling, and Sabbath-breaking that
                    attended camp life.
            Yet, as Armstrong cogently demonstrates, the ministries of Union chaplains were strikingly effective.
                    As they fulfilled their primary calling "to offer both sustenance and solace" (p.
                    15) to the fighting men, chaplains gave confidence to men in crisis by exhibiting compassion,
                    courage, self-control, and, above all, flexibility, the capacity to "bend to the
                    extraordinary circumstances produced by a great civil war …" (p. 42). The author
                    is penetrating in his depiction of the relationship between chaplains and the men they served, an
                    account based both on the memoirs and reports of the ministers and on the journals of members of
                    their "flocks." He is equally incisive in analyzing the chaplains' views
                    on slavery and their efforts on behalf of the freedmen. The volume also contains colorful anecdotes,
                    such as how Ella Gibson almost became the Union's only female chaplain; how Copperhead
                    congressman Clement L. Vallandigham arranged for Jewish chaplains; how Notre Dame's Father
                    William Corby created a "military mass" (p. 21). Students of Indiana history
                    particularly will appreciate the many references to Hoosier chaplains and regiments sprinkled
                    throughout the book.
            Although Armstrong clearly provides a full account of the ministry of chaplains to the troops, his
                    coverage of the "confident dying" promised by the title is disappointing. Though
                    he alludes to it early in the volume (pp. 23-24), the solace chaplains provided to the dying appears
                    as a virtual afterthought in the brief closing chapter. Similarly, Armstrong's
                    concentration on the chaplains' contributions to freed-men's education and
                    welfare, while informative and insightful, seems questionable, especially since the author himself
                    admits that, to get a "coherent picture" of such activities, one has to go
                    "beyond the limitations of discussion concerning the work done among blacks by  chaplains as chaplains…" (p. 81,
                    emphasis Armstrong's). Despite these drawbacks, this study remains essential reading for
                    anyone interested in religion and religious leadership during the war.
            LLOYD A. HUNTER, Roger D. Branigin professor of history,
                    professor of religion, and director of American Studies at 
                        Franklin
                     College, specializes in the Civil War, American involvement in 
                        Vietnam
                    , and the interplay of religion and culture in American history.
         
         
            
               Frederick Jackson Turner: Strange Roads Going Down. By Allan G. Bogue. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1998. Pp. xviii, 557. Illustrations, appendix, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            Frederick Jackson Turner continues to be one of the most controversial of American historians. Since
                    his death in 1932, his interpretation of American history has continued to be subjected to intense
                    scrutiny, both by those who would substantiate and those skeptics who would demolish his views. In
                    their now outdated Frederick Jackson Turner: A Reference Guide (1985), Vernon E.
                    Mattson and William E. Marion identified (in English language alone) and annotated nearly 1400
                    dissertations, published articles, and books on Turner.
            Since Turner has already received a major full-length biographical study in Ray Allen Billington, Frederick Jackson Turner: Historian, Scholar, Teacher (1973), it seems reasonable
                    to ask whether another is needed. Both Allen G. Bogue's study and Billington's
                    rely heavily on voluminous manuscript sources as well as the secondary literature; the overlap in
                    biographical coverage is considerable. Billington's emphasis was to portray Turner as a
                    college professor consumed with the trivia of administration, dedicated to his students and their
                    careers, frequently speaking to alumni and civic groups, and pursuing his professional life.
            In this study, Bogue, who is Turner professor of history emeritus at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , uses a broader canvas on which to portray a more detailed and intimate account of the
                    man and his life. Bogue's balanced examination of Turner's views on the frontier
                    and sectionalism should temper the sometimes total rejection of Turner's perspectives by
                    historians.
            Bogue traces the evolution of Turner's research and thinking. Because Turner's
                    explanations are not always clear and are vulnerable to varying interpretations, Bogue clarifies
                    what Turner did say and what he was trying to express. Further, Bogue establishes that
                    Turner's essays were status reports on their subjects as of the time of their writing and
                    that he continued to modify his ideas. Many critics fail to realize that Turner did not regard them
                    as being static in form or substance. While he was sensitive to criticism, Turner was also open to
                    evidence and analysis that could modify or revise his  views.
                    This is Bogue's considerable contribution to the examination of Turner's life and
                    intellectual legacy.
            The author's penchant for detail—the thought-by-thought analysis of
                    correspondence, a phrase-by-phrase examination of the essays, a thrust-by-thrust presentation of
                    speeches, the immersion into the nitty gritty of everyday living—unfortunately makes for
                    tedious reading. The reader gets lost in the details.
            Nevertheless, for everyone interested in a better understanding of the frontier and
                    sectionalism—Transappalachia and the Old Northwest figured prominently in
                    Turner's studies—Bogue's biography is the essential well-balanced
                    introduction. For those who already know where they stand, a careful reading of Bogue may reaffirm
                    or unsettle some of their thinking. Further, it is a model biography and a case study of economic,
                    naval, and geographic determinism.
            Bogue acknowledges that Turner consistendy argued that racism and slavery played secondary roles in
                    American development and that Turner's views on recent immigrants, Indians, and Jews were
                    stereotypical. These positions need careful examination in their context as well as assessment from
                    today's perspective.
            Bogue's intriguing subtitle aptly encapsulates Turner's quest to understand the
                    unfolding of American history. He was fond of poetry, particularly that of Rudyard Kipling, who
                    ended one piece: "We yearned beyond the skyline, where strange roads go down" (p.
                    xvi).
            DWIGHT L. SMITH, is professor of history emeritus, Miami
                    University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               . His latest book, with Ray Swick, is A Journey
                        Through the West: Thomas Rodney's 1803 Journal from 
                            Delaware
                         to the 
                            Mississippi
                         Territory (1997).
         
         
            
               An Appalachian New Deal: West 
                            Virginia
                         in the Great Depression. By Jerry Bruce Thomas. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. x, 316. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $36.95.)
            When most people think or read about West 
                        Virginia
                    , coal miners are the workers who probably first come to mind. But coal miners, however
                    important to West 
                        Virginia
                    's economic life, have never made up a majority of that state's
                    working people. To his credit, Jerry Bruce Thomas has produced a fine study of the Great Depression
                    in West 
                        Virginia
                     that spreads the misery equally among miners, lumbermen, farmers, urban workers, and
                    their families. It is, in fact, one of this book's strengths that the author details the
                    many ways in which much of the New Deal legislation affected ordinary Americans on their farms, in
                    the mining and lumber camps, and in the towns and cities of West 
                        Virginia
                    .
            The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of New Deal policies on the state government and
                    people of West 
                        Virginia
                    . The author succeeds in this task and in the process fills gaps in our knowledge  of yet another state's history during this
                    nation's worst economic crisis. He more than adequately describes and analyzes the effect
                    of such federal programs as the National Industrial Recovery Act and the Agricultural Adjustment
                    Act. He goes further than simple narration and provides the reader with a detailed analysis of how
                    groups in the state, from the Community Chest organizations to the United Mine Workers of America,
                    reacted to the economic crisis and federal intervention. While Thomas's efforts were not
                    specifically aimed at derailing any long-held notions about West 
                        Virginia
                     during the depression, his work contrasts with another recent study of
                    Appalachia's economic development which cites the New Deal as partial cause of the mountain
                    states' long-term economic ills.
            Following the lead of many other historians who have studied the New Deal at the state and local
                    level, Thomas's conclusions about the impact of the New Deal on West 
                        Virginia
                     are "charitable" (p. 2). While the national programs did not solve
                    the nation's economic crisis in the short-run, Roosevelt's policies "did
                    much to make the Depression more tolerable and to encourage in the American people a sense of
                    compassion" (p. 3). In other areas, too, Thomas's conclusions conform to those of
                    others. Examining the several governors of West 
                        Virginia
                     during the depression, Thomas confirms the "distracting influence of local
                    issues and economic interests and the difficulty of persuading state politicians to follow national
                    leadership" (p. 3). As in other parts of the country, West Virginians also experienced
                    long-term changes that derived from New Deal policies, but these programs did not provide enduring
                    solutions to West 
                        Virginia
                    's basic economic weaknesses. In an interesting epilogue Thomas concludes that
                    the New Deal did not provide an adequate economic stimulus to propel West 
                        Virginia
                     into a period of post-World War II progress experienced by other southern states hit
                    equally hard by the depression. He lays a good deal of the blame for this on the state's
                    topography and history of economic exploitation by the coal industry. In the post-depression decades
                    "the prevailing concepts of progress and growth in the American economy offered no
                    sustainable alternatives suitable to West 
                        Virginia
                    's environment and unusual conditions" (p. 240).
            This work is based upon solid research in all relevant primary and secondary sources, and while the
                    author's writing style is neither imaginative nor engaging it is adequate to the task of
                    narrating the details of depression-era politics and economics at both the state and national level.
                    This work should take its rightful place in American historiography alongside other state studies of
                    the Great Depression in America.
            RICHARD A. STRAW, professor of history at Radford
                    University, Radford, 
                        Virginia
                    , teaches courses on the American South and in the Appalachian Studies program. He has
                    published on such diverse subjects as coal mining, historic photography, Appalachian foodways, and
                    teaching methodologies. He is currently an editor of the online scholarly newsletter
                H-Appalachia.
         
         
         
            
               The War of 1898: The 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Cuba
                         in History and Historiography. By Louis A. Pérez, Jr. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1998. Pp. xvi, 171. Notes, bibliographical essay, index. $34.95.)
            While readers of The War of 1898, by Louis A. Perez, Jr., will undoubtedly learn
                    about 
                        Cuba
                     from this book, they will probably learn even more about the role that the writing of
                    history has played in shaping the 
                        United States
                    's conception of itself as a nation.
            Pérez begins his journey through the narratives of the war of 1898 by providing a context
                    for US. imperialism and colonial expansion in the nineteenth century. Doing so allows him to show
                    that American support for 
                        Cuba
                    's independence was not unqualified. The 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine, the idea of Manifest Destiny, the no-transfer policy, and the contention that
                    Cubans were incapable of self-government were all central notions in the documents produced both by
                    government officials, including the presidents, and other writers of the time. Therefore, after the
                    explosion of the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     in February of 1898 and the Cubans' failure to acknowledge the cease-fire proposed by
                    the US. on March 27, 1898, it became clear that the Cubans were dictating the pace of
                    events—a fact that troubled the U.S., given its citizens' long-held interests on
                    the island. By then, support for the cause of 
                        Cuba
                     Libre was widespread across the island and included Cubans of all classes, races, and
                    ages. President William McKinley faced the option of accepting Cuban independence or proposing an
                    invasion. In the end, a policy of "neutral intervention" was adopted, since it
                    would balance the competing claims of sovereignty by Cubans and Spaniards and guarantee U.S. control
                    of the island. However, since the cause of 
                        Cuba
                     Libre had wide support in Congress, McKinley had to accept a joint resolution in which
                    article four, known as the Teller Amendment, disclaimed any exercise of U.S. sovereignty, except for
                    the pacification of the island. The resolution encouraged Cubans to cooperate with the U.S., since
                    the amendment's first article recognized 
                        Cuba
                    's right to independence.
            The American intervention, as it was represented in the public debate of the time, became a
                    "war for humanity," a war of good intentions on behalf of the Cuban people. In
                    North America, songs, poems, and popular fiction created powerful images that reflected the general
                    mood and made the moral intentions of the U.S. seem unquestionable. After the war, the Teller
                    Amendment became ambiguous, and the word "pacification" came to imply a means of
                    protecting property and U.S. interests. In 1901 through the Platt Amendment the U.S. denied Cubans
                    full sovereignty over their nation by extending the work of pacification. Interestingly, students of
                    the war of 1898, as shown by Perez with an abundance of quotations from contemporary and recent
                    scholars, did not describe it as a war to defend American national interests. On the contrary, they
                    represented the  war as supporting Cuban independence and as the
                    achievement of noble intentions—even though these did not correspond to the central
                    convictions of a century of US. foreign policy.
            Because public opinion was vocal on the side of 
                        Cuba
                     Libre, it seemed to validate the view that official policy was dictated democratically
                    by the people of the US. This invocation of idealism also seemed to support the U.S.'s
                    characterization of itself as a nation with high moral standards. Thus, for many historians, the
                    Teller Amendment became evidence of the Americans' true purpose. Furthermore, this
                    interpretation became so entrenched that it "assumed a logic of its own, self-evident and
                    self-validating" (p. 47). As a result, many scholars overlooked the long history of US.
                    strategic, commercial, and political interests in 
                        Cuba
                    . New (and old) research paid little attention to Cuban archival sources or even to
                    published works. Such neglect has produced a self-contained US. historiography in which the
                    contributions of Cuban scholars—not to speak of those from the Caribbean and Latin
                    America—to our understanding of US. history have been sadly undervalued.
            Perez does not forget to "Remember the 
                        Maine
                    " and argues that the explosion of that battleship served to portray the war as
                    a matter of chance, not choice. Equally revealing are ways the US. denied the Cuban presence and
                    participation in the war, which explains why the events became known in the U.S. as the
                    Spanish-American War and not the Spanish-Cuban-American War. This is a critical point, since by
                    falsely claiming that Cubans did not contribute to their own liberation, the US. could justify
                    excluding them from participation in the peace agreements.
            Pérez concludes by demonstrating not only that many U.S. historians have shared the
                    conventional wisdom about the experience of 1898, but that they also have contributed to preserving
                    and maintaining these assumptions. Which is to say that many scholars have participated in
                    legitimizing imperialism from the academic balcony. Pérez also discusses the ways in
                    which, after 1959, Cuban intellectuals portrayed their Revolution as the culmination of the 1898
                    events that had been interrupted by US. control over the island. Therefore, the interpretation of
                    the past has served political agendas in both countries.
            This book is a valuable contribution to our understanding of 1898 and even more to analyzing what
                    lies beneath the construction of history: the garnering of power, cohesive identity, purpose,
                    memory, and the prolongation of silences.
            ARLENE J. DIAZ, assistant professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , recently published "Gender Conflicts in the Courts of the Early Venezuelan
                    Republic, Caracas, 1811-1840," Crime, Histoire &
                        Socétés/Crime, History & Societies (1998), and is currently
                    finishing a manuscript on gender, law, and liberalism in Venezuela from 1786 to 1904.
         
         
         
            
               Free Speech in Its Forgotten Years. By David M. Rabban. (
                        Cambridge
                    , U.K.: 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1997. Pp. xi, 404. Notes, illustrations, index. $34.95.)
            Too often free speech is treated primarily as a twentieth-century constitutional problem. Most
                    textbooks, for instance, ignore the issue after the repeal of the Sedition Act of 1798 until the
                    Supreme Court decision in Schenck v. 
                        
                            United States
                        
                     (1919). This circumstance troubled David Rabban, who recognized in the nineteenth-century
                    landscape a host of controversial challenges to accepted notions of permissible speech.
            Free speech, Rabban discovered, had not entered a legal abyss during the nineteenth century. Rather,
                    there was substantial debate and scores of legal opinions on free-speech issues, especially
                    concerning the activities of labor organizers, socialists and anarchists, and sex radicals. No one
                    doubted the value of free speech to a democratic society, but the extent of this right and its
                    application in public life were matters of fierce dispute. Equally urgent—and equally
                    contentious—were claims that free speech was a fundamental right of personal autonomy and
                    individual liberty.
            What obscured this history was a shift in attitude, especially among Progressives, that resulted from
                    the experience with governmental repression of civil liberties during and after World War I. Early
                    Progressives frequently saw constitutional rights as barriers to social reform. They vilified the
                    late-nineteenth-century Supreme Court in particular for upholding the primacy of economic and
                    property rights over child labor and fair trade laws, among other reforms. Also, many Progressives
                    viewed rights as excessively individualistic and reacted against dissent that was not directed
                    toward positive social reconstruction.
            World War I forced a reconsideration of these views. The war's failure to make the world
                    "safe for democracy," combined with its widespread repression of speech,
                    undermined faith in a benevolent state. What happened in the postwar era—and this is the
                    force of Rabban's argument—was a major transformation of American liberalism, as
                    Progressives, who previously had viewed rights as barriers to reform, began to see them as the
                    stimulus and vehicle for change.
            Strongly influenced by the writings (for Rabban, the misconstructions) of 
                        Harvard
                     law professor Zechariah Chafee, postwar civil libertarians (nee Progressives) based
                    their emerging interest in free speech on its contributions to democracy, rather than on its status
                    as a natural right. True to their prewar beliefs, they stressed the social benefits derived from
                    free expression and ignored the many other free-speech issues raised by libertarian radicals and
                    others during the nineteenth century. This stance allowed the Supreme Court, led by Justices Holmes
                    and Brandeis, to fashion "new" constitutional 
                    doctrine, rejecting the bad-tendency tests it had relied upon earlier in favor of the
                    clear-and-present-danger standard so familiar to modern jurists.
            This book marks a valuable contribution both to constitutional history and to the history of ideas.
                    Rabban helps us understand the transition from judicial hostility to free speech, a
                    late-nineteenth-century phenomenon, to the judicial activism of our time. He also helps us see how
                    social thought influenced positions on free speech. Our contemporary cultural commitment to personal
                    autonomy translates into a strong defense of free speech as an individual right beyond state
                    control. But earlier in this century the politics of reform required a different calculus, one that
                    linked speech and democracy. The story of how this transition occurred is a complex one, especially
                    for the uninitiated, but Rabban makes the effort worthwhile. For anyone interested in current
                    controversies over speech or in the meaning of rights talk in modern American society, this book is
                    essential.
            DAVID J. BODENHAMER, is professor of history and director
                    of the Polis Center at Indiana University—Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               Coolidge: An American Enigma. By Robert Sobel. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Regnery Publishing, 1998. Pp. 462. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            "The following pages," the historian Robert Sobel writes, "represent an
                    attempt to introduce or reintroduce Coolidge to those to whom he is a cartoon caricature and a
                    figure of derision" (p. 14). Sobel has written a modest study of a modest president. It is
                    "not based on original research" nor does it "present a complete picture
                    of the Coolidge presidency" (p. 15). The author promises "some fresh
                    interpretations" but "no major revelations" (p. 14). Nevertheless, as the
                    first scholarly biography of Calvin Coolidge in more than thirty years, Coolidge: An
                        American Enigma merits attention from students of the American presidency.
            Two themes, the president's simplicity and his complexity, run through Coolidge. These contradictions make Coolidge an enigma, something more than the silent,
                    do-nothing, tool-of-big business caricature of liberal historiography and something less than the
                    kind of jovial, backslapping, activist president those scholars usually label
                    "great" or "near great." Sobel's revisionism is not
                    fresh. Donald R. McCoy expressed similar ideas in greater detail and with more literary flair in Calvin Coolidge: The Quiet President (1967, reprinted 1988). But Sobel defends
                    Coolidge much more vigorously.
            Coolidge was a curious figure. The thirtieth president's youth was uncluttered by the
                    trappings of modern life. His 
                        Plymouth
                     Notch, 
                        Vermont
                    , home lacked indoor plumbing, electricity, and a telephone. Coolidge did not visit 
                        Boston
                     until his college days. He was thirty  years old
                    when he rode in his first automobile and was the last president not to travel by airplane. Clinging
                    to traditional values of hard work, fiscal responsibility, and service to town and country, Coolidge
                    "remained a product of rural 
                        Vermont
                    " (p. 29).
            But there was another Coolidge, ambitious, cagey, practical, doctrinaire, and lucky. He became a
                    machine politician, reached out to Democrats, and climbed the ladder of 
                        Massachusetts
                     politics. During the Progressive era, State Senator Coolidge backed women's
                    suffrage, workman's compensation, a minimum wage for women, legalized picketing, and direct
                    election of US. senators. During the more conservative 1920s, President Coolidge stressed lower
                    taxes, business prosperity, and diminished application of federal power. Taciturn, self-assured,
                    dignified, and principled, Coolidge the politician emerged as a workhorse, not a show horse. He had
                    a knack for being in the right place at the right time, and he projected stability, something the
                    electorate preferred during the "Aspirin Age." What Coolidge lacked in boldness,
                    Sobel asserts, he made up for in character.
            Sobel does well to puncture the myths surrounding "Silent Gal." Coolidge cultivated
                    his self-made, homespun, "wise-old-owl" persona (p. 235). He used radio to good
                    effect, and he mastered the press. Interestingly, his most famous axiom, "the chief
                    business of the American people is business," made no headlines and remained buried in a
                    speech extolling freedom of the press.
            Sobel's biography proves disappointing in several respects. The myths the author demolishes
                    may surprise the general reader: they will not surprise the specialist. Excessive block quotations
                    and tangential discussions slow down an otherwise brisk narrative. Although Sobel wants the reader
                    to reconsider the established formula, in which activism plus accomplishment equal presidential
                    greatness, he fails to frame his thesis clearly and address it fully. The author at times waxes
                    overly polemical, defending Coolidge's silence on the consequences of speculation in the
                    stock market. This reviewer was left to wonder how and under what circumstances Sobel believes
                    presidents should exercise leadership.
            Sobel provides an enigmatic study of an enigmatic president. Lay readers may want to know more about
                    Coolidge's personal life, religion, health, and place in history. Specialists will demand
                    greater analysis of the president's decision-making, administrative procedures, and actual
                    policies. But both camps will find this introduction or reintroduction provocative. It may even
                    reopen debate on a much-overlooked presidency.
            DEAN J. KOTLOWSKI, is the author of "Politics and
                    Principle: The Nixon Administration and Civil Rights Policy" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1998). A specialist on American politics and the modern presidency, he has published
                    articles in Journal of Policy History, The Historian, Business History Review, and
                        Presidential Studies Quarterly. He teaches history at 
                        Ohio
                     University, 
                  Athens, Ohio
               .
         
         
         
            
               The Presidency of Calvin Coolidge. By Robert H. Ferrell. (Lawrence: University
                    Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1998. Pp. xi, 244. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $29.95.)
            The Calvin Coolidge who emerges from these crisp, thoughtful pages is a man of parts, not all of them
                    flawless. Son of a farmer storekeeper in 
                        Plymouth
                     Notch, 
                        Vermont
                    , he was shy, secretive, and terse to the point of rudeness. His mind was good, but his
                    reserves were so slight that concentration made him irritable and, at times, mean to his
                    exceptionally gracious wife, though he was not mean in spirit. At root, he was a modest, moral man,
                    of ambition and compassion. In college, his careful preparation and drollery earned him recognition
                    as a speaker, and H. L. Mencken came in time to perceive his "natural talent" for
                    writing. Meanwhile it was said in political circles that Coolidge could empty any hall. Following
                    graduation from Amherst in 1895, he read law in 
                  Northampton, Massachusetts
               ,
                    then became city solicitor. Subsidized by his father for some years, he served as state
                    representative, mayor, president of the state senate, lieutenant governor, and governor. To all
                    these offices he brought a strong feeling for social progressivism, if not for the grand designs of
                    Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson. "I have been in sympathy with virtually all
                    legislation to improve living conditions," he wrote in 1915, "[but] I do not make
                    so loud a noise as some others." In fact, writes Robert H. Ferrell, Coolidge made politics
                    his life work in considerable part because he believed it to be "subsumed in the word
                    'service'"
            Coolidge's conception of public service embodied more than humane social legislation. From
                    the beginning he had been committed to efficiency and the rule of law, and as he moved from
                    legislative to administrative office those commitments became preeminent. As mayor of 
                        Northampton
                     in 1910, he reduced city taxes and debt while raising the salaries of teachers and
                    municipal workers. As governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                     a decade later, he consolidated 118 separate departments into 18. He also vetoed a bill
                    for the sale of beer and wine in violation of the Eighteenth Amendment with a declaration that
                    "there can be no constitutional instruction of an unconstitutional act." Meanwhile
                    his reluctant intervention in the 
                        Boston
                     police strike of 1919 became the scaffolding for his nomination for vice-president on
                    the Harding ticket in 1920.
            Ferrell's evaluation of Coolidge's presidency leans toward the underconsumption
                    theory of Keynesians and against the assumptions of the proponents of laissez-faire. He ascribes
                    Coolidge's failure to offer a comprehensive legislative program partly to the
                    president's belief that he should leave the apparently thriving economy alone. In
                    agriculture, where too many farmers were poorly farming too few productive acres, inaction may have
                    been wise economic policy. Other than in the South and Northeast, prices were down because
                    resumption  of production in Europe put American crops in
                    surplus. Correctly, Ferrell contends that Congress's solution, the McNary-Haugen export
                    debenture plan, would have stimulated further surpluses and that Coolidge acted sensibly in twice
                    vetoing the bill. As for the increasing disparity between the growth of profits and of wages, there
                    was not much that any administration could have done to close it. Mass unionism might have raised
                    purchasing power, but it took the Great Depression and the prospect of large defense profits to
                    raise wages. The notion that further reductions in income tax rates would have enabled middle-class
                    and blue-collar workers to buy more automobiles is similarly fanciful. As Ferrell's
                    statistics indicate, the disproportionate tax decreases of the era simply favored the super rich
                    over the very rich and the just plain rich; most middle-class workers paid nominal taxes, when they
                    paid any at all. By Coolidge's last full year in office, 98 percent of the American people
                    were exempt from income taxes.
            Coolidge might have tried to marshal the moral and political authority of his office behind
                    regulation of the stock market. His failure to do so, Ferrell suggests, may partly have reflected
                    his prolonged depression over the death of his son Calvin, Jr., in 1924; day-to-day routines, not
                    new challenges, became his refuge. Undoubtedly, too, the failure of economic analysts to accompany
                    their diagnoses with viable prescriptions reinforced Coolidge's predisposition to do
                    nothing. Most important of all, probably, was Coolidge's commitment to states'
                    rights and strict construction of the Constitution. He seemed not to see that the revolution in
                    communications that brought 
                        New York
                     closer to 
                        San Francisco
                     in 1920 than it had been to 
                        Virginia
                     when the Constitution was adopted made state regulation of nationwide corporations
                    inadequate. Yet even as Coolidge refused to face the new political-economic reality, he sought to
                    make existing federal agencies serve his own ideology. Thus, Ferrell concludes, he treated the ICC
                    with indifference, turned the FTC into a "shell of a regulatory body," and moved
                    "firmly to create a protectionist majority on the Tariff Commission."
            Calvin Coolidge, Elihu Root once remarked, "did not have an international hair on his
                    head." Neither did the American people: their main concerns, like those of their president,
                    were domestic. "That didn't mean they forgot about foreign policy,"
                    Ferrell adds with tongue in some part in cheek, "only that they did not think much about
                    it." Besides, they already knew what they wanted: no more immigrants (except of their own
                    kind); no cancellation of war debts regardless of the enormous disparity between Allied and American
                    contributions of blood and treasure in the war "to make the world safe for
                    democracy"; no membership in the World Court, let alone the League of Nations, without
                    ultra-nationalist reservations. Nevertheless, by giving reasonable rein to his abler foreign policy
                    officials and intervening more in decision-making than is commonly realized, Coolidge did grow a few
                    internationalist hairs.
            
            In the Caribbean, the long-established policy of protecting the Panama Canal area by supporting
                    seemingly stable governments won a messy, temporary success in Nicaragua. In Mexico, which was
                    threatening in 1927 to confiscate the $1.5 billion American investment in land, oil, and
                    mineral rights, Coolidge appointed Dwight Morrow ambassador with instructions to "keep us
                    out of war." Morrow won the affection of many Mexicans along with a nonconfiscatory
                    interpretation of the constitutional clause at issue. Toward 
                        China
                     the 
                        United States
                     pursued a relatively conciliatory policy designed both to maintain the Far Eastern
                    balance of power and to help missionaries convert the Chinese people. One consequence, Ferrell
                    argues, was further strain in American relations with 
                        Japan
                    .
            The final passage of this informed and informing work asks whether "failure to remedy
                    something that might have involved going beyond the possibilities of the times may not be a proper
                    measure for the presidency of Coolidge." Perhaps. Certainly it is doubtful that Coolidge or
                    "the best minds" could have averted the stock market crash with last minute
                    exhortations or regulations. Clearly, Coolidge's efficiency, good intentions, and modest
                    attainments were no substitute for national leadership. The self-contained New Englander so
                    convincingly portrayed herein was a well-meaning man of personal and public virtue whose temperament
                    and parochial vision prevented him from pushing himself and his administration to reasonable limits.
            WILLIAM H. HARBAUGH, is Lanbourne M. Williams Professor of
                    History emeritus, University of 
                        Virginia
                    .
         
         
            
               Truman Defeats Dewey. By Gary A. Donaldson. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1998. Pp. 270. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            Before the ink dried on the headlines announcing its outcome, the 1948 presidential election entered
                    folklore as an upset victory straight-shooting President Harry s. Truman, the "square root
                    of America," had defeated his formidable opponent, two party rivals, and every
                    gambler's odds. This book's title runs playfully across the dust jacket's
                    famous photo of a grinning Truman flaunting the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune's front page, which wrongly announced the contrary result.
            Gary A. Donaldson shows that the election had less to do with folklore than with conventional
                    political maneuvering, appeals to the normal components of the Democratic coalition assembled by
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt, bruising battles over the shape of the post-New Deal, postwar political
                    economy, and rising Cold War tensions. Many of these trends operated against Democratic prospects.
                    Inflation and consumer shortages aroused public rancor at the Truman administration's
                    reconversion policies, and massive strikes stirred antiunion sentiment. These events handed
                    Republicans a smashing  victory in the 1946 off-year elections,
                    giving them control of Congress for the first time since the Hoover era and an exaggerated sense of
                    their conservative mandate. This inspired them to pass the Taft-Hartley Act to rein in labor. Labor
                    turmoil had proven so vexing that in 1946 Truman had proposed a bill empowering him to draft strikers, but the GOP's overreaction rescued him from labor's hit
                    list.
            Donaldson's strength is his depiction of White House strategy after the 1946 election. He
                    tracks a small group of liberals, the "Ward-man Park group" (named for their
                    meeting place in the hotel suite of Oscar Ewing, a Democratic party and administration official).
                    They devised a scheme, generally adopted by the president's special counsel Clark Clifford,
                    to have Truman advocate a very liberal program. Republicans would never pass it, but so much the
                    better: Truman could then appeal to such key party constituencies as African Americans, labor, and
                    farmers and decry the "do-nothing" 80th Congress. Truman raised the civil rights
                    issue, but, pressed by the liberal Americans for Democratic Action, the Democratic convention went
                    well beyond what he sought. Ironically, the secession of the States Rights party (southern Democrats
                    peeved at this civil-rights plank) enhanced Truman's standing with black voters; and Henry
                    Wallace's Progressive party's defection to the left inured the president against
                    charges, in a season of heightening Cold War anxieties, of "softness on
                    communism." GOP nominee Thomas E. Dewey faced a dilemma: he must either disavow Congress or
                    defend it and thus back away from his liberal party platform.
            All this is sensibly argued. It does not deviate much from previous studies like Irwin
                    Ross's The Loneliest Campaign (1968), but it adds detail, reflecting
                    extensive archival research—in the collections at the Truman Library, the Dewey and
                    Wallace papers, and of such liberal mainstays as the Americans for Democratic Action, the National
                    Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and labor leaders and organizations.
            The main problem is the book's largely top-down approach. Donaldson concentrates most on the
                    Truman circle, somewhat less on Dewey and the other candidates, and least on the voters. Given
                    1948's low turnout, it is hard to gauge how well Democratic strategy worked. Donaldson
                    cites opinion polls, but contentions such as the claim that Truman's foreign policy
                    initiatives (their results not yet clear by fall 1948) profited him are speculative. The book might
                    usefully have drawn a clearer linkage between "inside" strategy and grassroots
                    voter behavior—a field in which political scientists were making pioneering advances in
                    that very era. It is plausible that what the Ward-man Park group proposed, the sovereign voter
                    disposed, but it is not self-evident.
            RICHARD M. FRIED, is a historian of the McCarthy era and
                    the author of The Russians Are Coming! The Russians Are Coming! Pageantry and
                        Patriotism in Cold-War America (1988).
         
         
         
            Letters to the Editor
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        One of the articles in your special Thomas Jefferson issue ended on an especially
                                    discordant note. For most of the article, "Sphinx without a Riddle: Joseph
                                    Ellis and the Art of Jefferson Biography," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, XCV (June 19991, 178-195, George M. Curtis III defends Jefferson
                                    against Ellis's aspersions, among other things criticizing the
                                    latter's anti-Jefferson biases, tendency to project his own morose view of
                                    the American Revolution's "failure" onto Jefferson, and
                                    neglect to examine his subject's pre-Revolutionary career and legal and
                                    constitutional thought. However, after imputing illogical thinking to Ellis, in his
                                    last paragraph, in which he chides Ellis for failing to mention that Jefferson
                                    refused to make provision for a department of theology at the University of 
                                        Virginia
                                    , Curtis goes bonkers, melodramatically stigmatizing
                                    Jefferson's desire for a secular institution as an authoritarian, fascistic
                                    "dark note" on his "commitment to liberty" and,
                                    ironically, the most unique part of his "legacy": "This
                                    denial [i.e., the absence of theology courses from the University curriculum],
                                    masked as a tribute to academic freedom and individual liberty of choice, failed to
                                    hide the assault upon inquiry into ideas and convictions central to the quest for
                                    liberty throughout much of the history of western civilizations" (201).
                                    Curtis's brief, unreasoning attack on Jefferson's attitudes to
                                    religious teaching has been implicitly refuted by numerous leading scholars on
                                    Jefferson's religious thought (Daniel Dreisbach, Edwin Scott Gaustad, Isaac
                                    Kramnick) in the October 1999 William and Mary Quarterly, which
                                    coincidentally contains six articles on this topic. Perhaps Jefferson himself
                                    provides his best defense, in a letter that he wrote precisely on the matter that so
                                    arouses Professor Curtis's ire. To Dr. Thomas Cooper, himself a fervid
                                    deist anticlerical, Jefferson wrote on November 2, 1822, when his university was in
                                    the planning stages: 
                                        In our University you know there is no professorship of divinity. A handle
                                            has been made of this to disseminate an idea that this is an institution,
                                            not merely of no religion, but against all religion. Occasion was taken at
                                            the last meeting of the Visitors, to bring forward an idea which might
                                            silence this calumny, which weighed on the minds of some honest friends to
                                            the institution. In our annual report to the legislature, after stating the
                                            constitutional reasons against a public establishment of any religious
                                            instruction, we suggest the expedient of encouraging the different religious
                                            sects to establish each for itself a professorship of their own tenets, on
                                            the confines of the University, so near as that their students may attend
                                            the lectures there, and have the free use of our library, and every other
                                            accomodation [sic] we can give them; preserving however
                                            their independence of us & of each other. This fills the chasm
                                            objected to ours, as a defect in an institution professing to give
                                            instruction in all useful sciences [TJ's
                                            italics]. I think the invitation will be accepted by some sects from candid
                                            intentions, and by others from jealousy and rivalship. And by bringing the
                                            sects together, and mixing them with the mass of other students, we shall
                                            soften their asperities, liberalise and neutralise their prejudices, and
                                            make the general religion a religion of peace, reason and morality. [Thomas
                                            Jefferson to Thomas Cooper, November 2, 1822, Jefferson Papers, Library of
                                            Congress, Reel 53]
                                    
                                     In addition, the Report of the
                                    University's Board of Visitors, October 7, 1822, composed primarily by
                                    Jefferson, made clear that the University's students would be allowed to
                                    visit the projected divinity schools for religious services: "Such
                                    establishments [the divinity schools] would offer the further and great advantage of
                                    enabling the students of the University to attend religious exercises with the
                                    professor of their particular sect, either in the rooms of the building still to be
                                    erected, and destined to that purpose under impartial regulations [i.e., spaces in
                                    which every denomination would be entitled to hold religious observances]
                                    … or in the lecturing room of such professor." [Report of Board
                                    of Visitors, October 7, 1822, in Nathaniel F. Cabell, ed., Early
                                        History of the University of 
                                            Virginia
                                         as Contained in the Letters of Thomas Jefferson and Joseph C.
                                        Cabell (
                                        Richmond
                                    , Va., 1865), 474-475.]
                        In any case, while Jefferson—fearless that orthodox minds might have an
                                    invidious impact on his students—was willing to permit divinity students
                                    to visit the secular realms of the University, where they might conceivably be
                                    tempted to abandon their religious studies for his college's worldly ones
                                    (as Robert M. Healey argues) [Robert M. Healey, Jefferson on Religion
                                        in Public Education (
                                        New Haven
                                    , Conn., 1962), 222-223], it was equally likely that his own students
                                    from the University might desert their secular studies after exposure to the august
                                    halls of the neighboring divinity schools in the course of their weekly (or oftener)
                                    worship. Indeed, before he died, Jefferson set aside a room in the University of 
                                        Virginia
                                    's Rotunda for religious services. Ironically, in 1832 the
                                    students initiated a movement, with the approval of the faculty and Visitors, to
                                    raise funds for the employment of a chaplain, preliminary to a great religious
                                    revival on campus. [Virginius Dabney, Mr. Jefferson's
                                        University: A History (
                                        Charlottesville
                                    , Va., 1981), 12-13; Donald G. Tewkesbury, The Founding of
                                        American Colleges and Universities Before the Civil War (
                                        New York
                                    , 1932), 152.]
                        Therefore, it seems to me that Professor Curtis's concluding remarks were
                                    surprisingly unwarranted and misinformed. I hope you will be able to print this
                                    letter as a kind of correction of his misinterpretations.
                        
                                    
                              Medgar Evers College
                              City University of 
                                    New York
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Arthur Scherr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        Despite Mr. Scherr's unfortunate proclivity for name-calling, he does raise
                                    an issue worth further eludication. A cursory survey of the Jefferson literature
                                    reveals several interesting points. Some biographers avoid any mention of the
                                    controversy over theological studies; others such as Ellis see the question from a
                                    twentieth-century reading of the "wall of separation" doctrine (an
                                    interpretation, incidentally, cast in substantial doubt in the
                                    "Forum" essays in the October 1999 issue of the William and Mary Quarterly), a doctrine that has assumed a position of
                                    civil religion in the minds of some; and a few, a very few, seek to understand both
                                    the context of the establishment of the institution and Jefferson's various
                                    and often conflicting personal, intellectual, and political interests. The
                                    historical context as well as the historiography is convoluted, to say the least.
                                    Jefferson's age, his gloomy sense of American decline, his mounting dislike
                                    for evangelical Presbyterians, his pride of ownership of the new university, and his
                                    long-standing ambition to create an educational institution in his image gave this
                                    final chapter a complex plot. Added to this were political considerations that
                                    surfaced in 
                                        Richmond
                                     and elsewhere as 
                                        Virginia
                                     faced the formidable task of adding to its higher education investment,
                                    historically concentrated in William and Mary. The lightning rod of Thomas Cooper
                                    became the point where all the swirling and diverse interests seemed to converge.
                                    The result was a storm of controversy, one for which many biographers suggest that
                                    Jefferson was ill prepared.
                        On most of these matters, particularly the Cooper controversy that Scherr alludes to,
                                    Ellis remains silent. Instead, he elects to pair Jefferson's general
                                    interest in banning theological studies with carefully controlling the study of
                                    government so as to protect students from "the treasonable thoughts of
                                    'rank Federalists and consolidationists.'" Of course his
                                    objective in this was the creation of the carefully crafted citizen of a
                                    Jeffersonian republic, the ideal extension of the model Jefferson introduced in his
                                    first inaugural address. While he soon withdrew his prescriptions for political
                                    reading after 
                                        Madison
                                     cautioned against politicizing the curriculum, Jefferson remained
                                    adamant on the question of excluding theology. Several biographers, particularly
                                    Merrill Peterson, craft a context wherein the reader is encouraged to see the
                                    long-term development of Jefferson's interest in education coupled with his
                                    growing concern for the quality of citizenship in the new nation. These strong
                                    convictions merged in Jefferson's investment in the University of 
                                        Virginia
                                    . Significantly, his concerns for the degradation of American politics,
                                    his displeasure with evangelicalism, and his dismissal of Presbyterian theology
                                    combined in distinct ways over the years, culminating in his angry November 1822
                                    outburst to Cooper.
                        For his part, Ellis, in concluding his discussion of the founding, celebrates
                                    Jefferson's innovative use of time and space. Ellis notes
                                    Jefferson's  elimination of traditional
                                    student grade classifications. Unfortunately he does not conflate this with a notice
                                    of Jefferson's advocacy of free election of academic courses. Finally,
                                    Ellis elaborates upon one of Jefferson's most important contributions to
                                    American education—the remarkable architecture that brought student and
                                    faculty together in an inward looking "academical village." At
                                    this point Ellis was in an enviable position to comment upon the implications of
                                    this geography for the Cooper letter that Scherr quoted, since space and time
                                    figured centrally in this exchange as well. Most of Jefferson's biographers
                                    agree that early in his thoughts about the university Jefferson conceived an
                                    architectural plan. It is important also to remember that Jefferson's
                                    antipathy for Presbyterian evangelicals was of long standing. The letter to Cooper,
                                    then, was frosting on an old cake. Unfortunately, Mr. Scherr chooses not to quote
                                    from the previous paragraphs of Jefferson's letter where he excoriated
                                    "the growth of Presbyterianism," but clearly, the paragraph that
                                    he does select deserves to be understood in the context of the paragraphs that
                                    precede it.
                        Contemporaries and historians alike have pondered Jefferson's recommended
                                    remedy for the Presbyterian updating in 
                                        Virginia
                                     of Benjamin Rush's call for the study of Christianity as a
                                    necessary adjunct of republican education. Mr. Scherr, like Leonard Levy before him,
                                    seeks to celebrate Jefferson as an unwavering champion of religious liberty, going
                                    to some lengths to argue that the Danbury letter controversy supports such a view.
                                    All of this is based in part upon Jefferson's politically astute proposal
                                    in 1822 to permit different religious sects to establish "a professorship
                                    of their own tenets, on the confines of the university." On the surface
                                    this has come to mean in the minds of some historians a nod by Jefferson to
                                    disinterested neutrality, a balanced approach to state-sponsored education in the
                                    early nineteenth century.
                        As charmingly sophistic as this appears, no one yet has plumbed the vagaries of
                                    "confines" with any real success. So there is a residue of the
                                    disingenuous about Jefferson's last ditch fix for a mounting political
                                    storm occasioned by suspicions born of his policy forbidding theological studies
                                    coupled with his advocacy for Cooper. Surely no one would mistake a principled stand
                                    on religious liberty with the notion Jefferson offered up here. Those with a special
                                    religious interest were promised a separate tent on the outside edge of the
                                    intentionally confined campfire that was the new "academical
                                    village." Situated on the periphery of this new state institution these
                                    outsiders, so conspicuous in their separateness, would become the special projects
                                    for professors at the university suddenly vested with the cause to "make
                                    the general religion a religion of peace, reason, and morality." The
                                    Jefferson conclusion revealed a clear state purpose, then, one that did not suggest
                                    neutrality so much as a desiccated rendering of free inquiry. At the new university
                                    content-based discrimination  was now given the
                                    muscle of the police power of the state. Mr. Scherr is correct in stating that this
                                    is a most important chapter in Jefferson's life. It is one that suggests
                                    the play of light and dark in ways that deserve the most careful attention, for the
                                    consequences of some of these decisions would resurface years later in far, far
                                    different guises in the world of burgeoning state universities. It may well turn out
                                    to be one of the sad ironies in the Jefferson legacy that in casting out centuries
                                    of inquiry all in the name of freedom from ecclesiastical monopoly, Jefferson opened
                                    the door for the exercise of discriminatory power on the part of the state that
                                    brought forth a very different monopoly indeed.
                        
                                    
                              Senior Fellow, Liberty Fund
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    George M. Curtis III
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            Editor's Note. This annual list is intended to aid researchers in Indiana history. The Magazine solicits items for inclusion, especially from publications (other than
                    newspapers) not usually reviewed in IMH. Items to be included in the March 2001 issue should be sent
                    before November 1, 2000.
            
               Adams, Bob, "Alien County's [Basketball] Tournament Turns 75," Indiana Basketball History, VI (Spring 1998).
               Adelman, Jeremy, and Stephen Aron, "From Borderlands to Borders: Empires,
                        Nation–States, and the Peoples in Between in North American History," American Historical Review, CIV (June 1999).
               Baer, M. Teresa, "Hero and Villain: William Henry Harrison and the Indian Land
                        Treaties," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Fall 1999).
               Banta, R. E., The Ohio (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1998).
                        [Reprint of 1949 edition.]
               Barnard, Susan K, and Grace M. Schwartzman, "Tecumseh and the Creek Indian War of
                        1813–1814 in North Georgia," Georgia Historical Quarterly,
                        LXXXII (Fall 1998).
               Bates, Alan L., et al., "Falls Cities Ferries: A Note," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCV (September 1999).
               Baugh, Hope, et al., Camp Tecumseh YMCA: Enriching Lives since 1924
                        ([Delphi, Ind.: s.n.], 1998).
               Berry, S. L., For the Sake of Art: The History of the Indianapolis Arts
                        Center (Indianapolis: The Center, 1999).
               Bieder, Robert E., "Sault Ste. Marie and the War of 1812: A World Turned Upside Down
                        in the Old Northwest," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV (March 1999).
               Bigelow, Bruce, "The Clash of Cultures: Border Southerners and Yankees in Antebellum
                        Indiana," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, II
                        (1998).
               Bigham, Darrel, Images of America: Evansville (Charleston, S.C.: Arcadia
                        Publishing, 1998).
               ————— Towns &
                            Villages of the Lower Ohio (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1998).
               Bird, Larry, Bird Watching: On Playing and Coaching the Game I Love, with
                        Jackie MacMullan (New York: Warner Books, 1999).
               
               Birdsell, Roger, The Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley: Continuity &
                            Change, 1956–1978 ([South Bend: Michiana Jewish Historical Society], 1998).
               Blakey, George T., "Stalking the Elusive Hoosier's Nest," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Summer 1999).
               Bogle, Victor M., Summary Historical Account of the Monon Railroad, "The Hoosier
                            Line" ([Kokomo?: The author?, 1996]).
               Bonnemains, Jacqueline, Charles–Alexandre Lesueur en Amérique
                            du Nord (1816–1837): Catalogue des Documents du Muséum d'Histoire
                            Naturelle du Havre [Vol. 3] (Le Havre: Editions du Muséum du Havre, 1999).
               Boomhower, Ray E., "Indiana's Savior: J. F. D. Lanier and His Mansion on the
                        Ohio," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Summer 1999).
               —————, "Slaughterhouse–Five: Kurt Vonnegut Jr.," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Spring 1999).
               —————, "Sometimes I Wonder:
                        The Hoagy Carmichael Room [at Indiana University's Archives of Traditional Music in
                        Bloomington]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Fall
                        1999).
               Bradley, George K, Northern Indiana Railway (Chicago: Central Electric
                        Railfans' Association, 1999).
               Bridges, Bill, and Karen Bridges, "Native Hoosiers Predate History," Outdoor Indiana, LXIII (November/December 1998).
               Brock, Pope, Indiana Gothic: A Novel of Adultery and Murder in an American
                        Family (New York: Doubleday, 1999).
               Brown, Alan S., "An Ultimate Symbol," Michigan History
                        Magazine, LXXXII (September/October 1998). [Review of John Sugden, Tecumseh: A
                            Life.]
               Buettner, Michael Gene, "In Search of … the 1924 Lincoln Highway in
                        Indiana," Lincoln Highway Forum, V (Summer 1998).
               "Building a House in North Manchester in 1929," North Manchester Historical
                        Society Newsletter, XV (August 1998). [Details of the process, based on the
                        diaries of Ralph G. Rarick and Vinna C. Rarick.]
               "Bumper Crop," a series of articles on Indiana farm buildings, Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August 1999).
               Buser, Charles Aubrey, "Tecumshe [sic], Roundhead the Stuff of Legends," Montgomery Magazine, XXV (January 1999).
               Bussel, Robert, From Harvard to the Ranks of Labor: Powers Hapgood and the
                            American Working Class (University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1999).
               
                  "Called Home": The Pioneer Cemeteries of Franklin Township,
                            Marion County, Indiana (Indianapolis: Franklin Township, Marion County, Indiana,
                        Historical Society, 1999).
               Carmony, Donald F., Indiana, 1816–1850: The Pioneer Era. Vol. II:
                            The History of Indiana (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Bureau and
                        Indiana Historical Society, 1998).
               
               Carter, Jared, "A Fellow Poet Ponders 'The Great One',"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Fall 1999).
               Castaldi, Thomas E., "The Canaler in Indiana," Indiana
                        Canals, IX (Spring 1998).
               Cline, Pat, "County Named after Legendary War Hero," Montgomery
                            Magazine, XXV (April 1999).
               —————, "Ladoga
                        'Square of the World'," Montgomery Magazine, XXV
                        (January 1999).
               —————, "Last Revolutionary War
                        Survivor Buried Here," Montgomery Magazine, XXIV (September 1998).
               —————, "Local Military Spirit
                        Ranked High in State," Montgomery Magazine, XXV [XXIV] (October
                        1998).
               —————, "Pioneers Search for
                        'Treasured' Land," Montgomery Magazine, XXV
                        (February 1999). [Early settlement of Montgomery County.]
               Collins, William Frederick, "John Tipton and the Indians of the Old
                        Northwest" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue University, 1997).
               
                  Combined Atlases of La Porte County, Indiana, 1874–1892,
                            1907–1921 (La Porte: La Porte County Historical Society, 1998).
               
                  Combined Atlases ofWarrick County, Indiana, 1880 and 1899 (Boonville:
                        Warrick County Museum, 1998).
               Cook, Claude E., The German Prisoner of War Camp at Austin, Indiana[,] and Its Connections with Campbellsburg, Indiana[,] during World
                            War II (Indianapolis: [The author?], 1998).
               Cooper, James L., Artistry and Ingenuity in Artificial Stone: Indiana's
                            Concrete Bridges, 1900–1942 (Greencastle, Ind.: Historic Bridge Books,
                        1997).
               Cox, E. T., "Natural Resources of Owen County, 1875," Owen
                            County History and Genealogy, VI (Fall 1997); VII (Winter 1998; Spring 1998; Summer
                        1998). [Reprinted from Geological Survey of Indiana (Indianapolis, 1876).]
               Cox, Robert S., "Archival Report: The Old Northwest at the Clements
                        Library," Michigan Historical Review, XXIV (Spring 1998).
               Critchlow, Donald T., "Galling WASP: Sexual Misbehavior in the Human
                        Scientist," Reviews in American History, XXVII (March 1999). [Review
                        essay on James H. Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey: A Public/Private Life.]
               Curtis, George M., Ill, "Sphinx without a Riddle: Joseph Ellis and the Art of
                        Jefferson Biography," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV (June 1999).
               Darbee, Leigh, "North Meets South," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, XI (Spring 1999). [Anauta, a native of Baffin Island, who lived in
                        Indianapolis for over twenty years.]
               Darlington, Jane Eaglesfield, Trinity Episcopal Church, 3243 N. Meridian Street,
                            Indianapolis, Indiana: Parish Registers, 1919–1970 ([Carmel: The author],
                        1999).
               
               Davis, Charles, "Locating Clinton Lock," Indiana Canals,
                        IX (Winter 1998).
               Dean, Janet Elaine, "Meditating Women: Gender and the Frontier in the American
                        Imagination, 1804–1853" (Ph.D. dissertation, Columbia University, 1996).
               Dean, Jonathan, "The Construction of the Old Jail, 1881–1887,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, XXIV (September 1998).
               Debono, Paul, "The Indianapolis ABCs: The Pride of the Negro Leagues," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Fall 1999).
               Deremiah, Robert, "History of the French Lick and West Baden Hotels," Hoosier Line, XVII, No. 2 ([1998]).
               Diebold, Paul, Greater Irvington: Architecture, People and Places on the
                            Indianapolis Eastside (Indianapolis: Irvington Historical Society, 1997).
               Doyle, Julie, John David Smith, and Richard M. McMurry, eds., This Wilderness of
                            War: The Civil War Letters of George W. Squier, Hoosier Volunteer (Knoxville:
                        University of Tennessee Press, 1998).
               Dunwoody, Joseph, The Dunwoody Chronicles, 1856–1866: Daily Journals
                            of the Community Activities and Social Life as Experienced by Joseph and Elizabeth Dunwoody,
                            Pendleton, Fall Creek Township, Madison County, Indiana, ed. Duane E. Dun-woodie (Mt.
                        Vernon, Mo.: W. Swearingin, 1998).
               Bales, Anne Bruner, "Paoli and Placerville: Correspondence of a Hoosier in the Gold
                        Rush," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV (March 1999).
               Eby, Clare Virginia, Dreiser and Veblen, Saboteurs of the Status Quo
                        (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1999).
               Ekberg, Carl J., French Roots in the Illinois Country: The Mississippi Frontier
                            in Colonial Times (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1998).
               Farmer, Ann Dahlstrom, and Philip M. Farmer, Jessamyn West: A Descriptive and
                            Annotated Bibliography (Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press, 1998).
               Faust, Gerry, and Steve Love, Gerry Faust: The Golden Dream (Champaign,
                        111.: Sagamore Publishing, 1997).
               Ferguson, Earline Rae, "A Community Affair: African American Women's Club
                        Work in Indianapolis, 1879–1917" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        1997).
               Fisher, Jerry M., The Pacesetter: The Untold Story of Carl G. Fisher (Fort
                        Bragg, Calif: Lost Coast Press, 1998).
               "Fort Wayne and World War I," Old Fort News, LX, No. 2
                        (1997).
               Fox, Richard Wightman, Trials of Intimacy: Love and Loss in the
                            Beecher–Tilden Scandal (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1999).
               
               Gabbert, Jim, "Promo Houses Get Overdue Recognition," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June 1999). [Pre–World War II demonstration
                        houses in Indiana.]
               Gaff, Maureen, "The Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and 1919 and How It Affected the Fort
                        Wayne Area," Old Fort News, LX, No. 2 (1997).
               Gater, Laura, "Chief Little Turtle,
                        Me–she–kin–no–quah," Whitley County
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (December 1998).
               —————, "Frances
                        Slocum—Little Lost Quaker Girl," Whitley County Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVII (March 1999).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "African American Genealogy Research," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 78 (November 1999).
               —————, "Researching the
                        Indiana Connections to the Underground Railroad," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 78 (November 1999).
               Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: Archival Holdings in
                        Eastern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV (September 1999).
               Gollar, C. Walker, "Early Protestant–Catholic Relations in Southern
                        Indiana and the 1842 Case of Roman Weinzaepfel," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCV (September 1999).
               Gray, Ralph D., "The 'Star' of the Otwell Star: Beulah B. Gray,
                        Editor," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Summer 1999).
               "The Great Lakes in Philadelphia: Archival Report," Michigan
                            Historical Review, XXV (Spring 1999). [Great Lakes collections at the American
                        Philosophical Society.]
               Hamilton, Neil A., "A French Spy in America," American
                        History, XXXIV (August 1999). [Victor Collot, who mapped the Ohio River ca. 1800.]
               Hamilton, Ron, "John Walker: Transportation and Industrial Entrepreneur in Pioneer
                        Indiana," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, II
                        (1998).
               Headings, Lois Shepard, "The Distinguished and Extraordinary Man: Chief J. B.
                        Richardville," Old Fort News, LXI, No. 1–2 (1998).
               Hershberger, Mary, "Mobilizing Women, Anticipating Abolition: The Struggle against
                        Indian Removal in the 1830s," Journal of American History, LXXXVI
                        (June 1999).
               Higgins, James Jeffrey, Images of the Rust Belt (Kent, Oh.: Kent State
                        University Press, 1999).
               
                  Historic Black American Sites and Structures in Jennings County (North
                        Vernon: Jennings County Preservation Association, 1998).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Dubois County Interim Report: Indiana
                            Historic Sites and Structures Inventory (Indianapolis: HLFI, 1998).
               
               —————, Miami County
                            Interim Report: Indiana Historic Sites and Structures Inventory (Indianapolis: HLFI,
                        1998).
               —————, Randolph County
                            Interim Report: Indiana Historic Sites and Structures Inventory (Indianapolis: HLFI,
                        1998).
               Holmes, Steven J., The Young John Muir: An Environmental Biography (Madison:
                        University of Wisconsin Press, 1999).
               Hoover, Dwight W., with the assistance of Jane Rodman, A Pictorial History of
                            Indiana (1980; reprint, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998).
               Horwitz, Lester V., The Longest Raid of the Civil War: Little–Known
                            and Untold Stories of Morgan's Raid into Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio
                        (Cincinnati: Farmcourt Publishing, 1999).
               "The House of the Singing Winds: The T. C. Steele State Historic Site," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Spring 1999).
               Hudson, Henry A., Jr., "Owen County Indiana Postal History: The Stampless
                        Period," Owen County History and Genealogy, VIII (Spring 1999).
               Indiana Fiscal Policy Institute, The Evolution of Indiana's Labor Force,
                            1968–1997: A Comparative Analysis (Indianapolis: The Institute, 1998).
               Indiana Jewish Historical Society, A User's Guide to the Holdings of the
                            Indiana Jewish Historical Society (Fort Wayne: The Society, 1998). [Indiana Heritage
                        Research Grant product.]
               "Interurbans," Indianapolis Postcard Club (March 1999).
               Irving, Gary, Places of Grace: The Natural Landscapes of the American
                        Midwest (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1999).
               Keller, Michael E., The Graham Legacy: Graham–Paige [automobiles]
                            to 1932 (Paducah, Ky.: Turner Publishing, 1998).
               Kennedy, Peg, and Frankie Konovsek, The Village of Brownsburg (Robinson,
                        111.: Lamplight Publishing, 1998).
               "Kil–so–quah Interviewed," Whitley County Historical
                        Society Bulletin, XXXVI (December 1998). [Reprinted from the Columbia City Post, (August) 1906.]
               Kylloe, Ralph, "Hickory Furniture," Hoosierisms Quarterly,
                        III (Summer 1999), 16- 20.
               Lafever, Carolyn, A Pictorial History of Wayne County, Indiana (Virginia
                        Beach, Va.: Donning Company, 1998).
               Lauer, Martha Smith, "The Early Years in Montgomery County," Montgomery Magazine, XXV (April 1999).
               
                  Life in the Hills: Images of Brown County and Its People (Marceline, Mo.:
                        Heritage House Publishing, 1997).
               
                  Lost Jazz Shrines (Brooklyn, N.Y.: 651, An Arts Center, 1998). [Includes a
                        piece by David N. Baker on the history of jazz in Indianapolis.]
               
               Mahoney, Timothy R., Provincial Lives: Middle–Class Experience in the
                            Antebellum Middle West (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1999).
               Mancke, Elizabeth, "Empire, Land, and the Construction of Racism in the Ohio Valley,
                        1673–1800," Reviews in American History, XXVII (March
                        1999). [Review essay of Eric Hinderaker, Elusive Empire: Constructing Colonialism
                            in the Ohio Valley, 1673–1800.]
               Mattingly, Mary Ellen, and Joan Cox Bohm, Clinton County IN Historical Society
                            Presents Some Civil War Soldiers ([Frankfort]: Clinton County Historical Society,
                        1998).
               McBrien, William, Cole Porter: A Biography (New York: Alfred A. Knopf,
                        1998).
               McClellan, Ruth M., Pike County History, Bicentennial Edition,
                            1776–1976 (Petersburg: [s.n., 1998]). [Reprint edition.]
               McGarvie, Mark D., "'In perfect accordance with his character':
                        Thomas Jefferson, Slavery, and the Law," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCV (June 1999).
               Meyer, Marjorie Teetor, One Man's Vision: The Life of Automotive Pioneer
                            Ralph R. Teetor (Indianapolis: Guild Press of Indiana, 1995).
               Middleton, William D., South Shore: The Last Interurban, rev. 2nd ed.
                        (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1999).
               Miller, Keith L., "Willis S. Blatchley and Raymond S. Blatchley on Petroleum in
                        Indiana and Illinois: A Note," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV
                        (March 1999).
               Minton, Madge Rutherford, Madge Rutherford Minton: Women Air–force
                            [sic] Service Pilots, Class of 43–W–4: Letters,
                        1943–1944 (Denton, Tex.: [s.n.], 1998).
               Morgan, Iwan W., "Latecomers to the Industrial City: African Americans, Jobs, and
                        Housing in Fort Wayne, Indiana, 1940–1960," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCV (March 1999).
               
                  Muncie of Today: Its Commerce, Trade and Industries ([Evansville]: Windmill
                        Publications, 1999). [Reprint of 1895 edition.]
               Newton, Judith Vale, "Sustaining a Creative Spirit: Women Artists in
                        Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Spring 1999).
               "1947: A Time for Celebration of the Monon," Hoosier Line,
                        XVI, No. 3 (1998).
               Onuf, Peter S., "'We shall all be Americans': Thomas Jefferson and
                        the Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XCV (June 1999).
               Ostberg, C. Ronald, "A Living Room for Indiana: The New Indiana Historical Society
                        Headquarters," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Spring
                        1999).
               Payne, Cordelia M., "An African–American Historic Building: The Madam C.
                        J. Walker Theater" (M.A. thesis, University of Cincinnati, 1998).
               
               —————, "An
                        African–American Historic Building: The Walker Theater," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 77 (August 1999).
               Pickrell, Martha, Emma Speaks Out: Life and Writings of Emma Molloy
                            (1839–1907) (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana, 1999).
               Pollauf, Robert A., "West Baden College and the Monon," Hoosier
                            Line, XVII, No. 3 ([1999]).
               Polston, Steve, "Springing from the Past: West Baden Hotel Receives New
                        Life," Outdoor Indiana, LXIV (January/February 1999).
               
                  A Portrait and Biographical Record of Delaware County, Indiana (Muncie:
                        Delaware County Historical Alliance, 1999). [Partial reprint of the 1894 edition; the section of
                        the original volume that covered Randolph County history has been omitted.]
               Probst, Ernest G., Addendum #2—Indiana Dairies, 1999
                        (Plymouth: The author, 1999). [Limited distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana
                        Historical Society.]
               Ratermann, Dale, The Big Ten: A Century of Excellence (Champaign, 111.:
                        Sagamore Publishing, 1996).
               Reese, William J., ed., Hoosier Schools, Past and Present (Bloomington:
                        Indiana University Press, 1998).
               "Roads and Transportation," Marshall County Historical Society Quarterly, XXVIII (Summer 1999).
               Robinson, Ray, Rockne of Notre Dame: The Making of a Football Legend (New
                        York: Oxford University Press, 1999).
               Ross Lockridge, Jr., and Raintree County, a series of essays marking the
                        fiftieth anniversary of the novel, in Midwestern Miscellany, XXIV (Spring
                        1998).
               Rottenberg, Dan, ed., Middletown Jews: The Tenuous Survival of an American Jewish
                            Community (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1997).
               Rubincam, Milton, and Richard D. Feldman, The Biography of Maxwell O. Parry:
                            Indiana's Forgotten Playwright, with Biographical Notes on the D. M. Parry Family
                            of Indianapolis ([Indianapolis?: s.n.], 1998). [Expansion of an article in the Fall
                        1998 issue of Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History. Limited distribution
                        typescript; reference copy located at the Indiana Historical Society.]
               Safianow, Alien, "The Klan Comes to Tipton," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XCV (September 1999).
               Schmalz, Clifton, "Governor Samuel Ralston," Owen County
                            History and Genealogy, VIII (Spring 1999). [Reprinted from the Clay City News, December 27, 1962.]
               Scott, Erwin D., History of Indiana's Oldest County Fair,
                            1809–1992 ([Bicknell?: The author, 1999?]). [History of the Knox County Farm
                        Fair.]
               
                  The Settling of the Grand Marsh of the Kankakee River: Oral History
                        Interviews, 2 vols. ([DeMotte, Ind.: Jasper County Public Library, DeMotte Branch, 1999]).
               
               Shaddy, Robert A., "Mad about Books: Eugene Field's The Love
                            Affairs of a Bibliomaniac," Midamerica, XXIV (1997).
               Skvarenina, Joseph L., Hancock County, Indiana: Images of America
                        (Charleston, S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 1998).
               Specht, Neva Jean, "Mixed Blessing: Trans–Appalachian Settlement and the
                        Society of Friends, 1780–1813" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Delaware,
                        1997).
               Spragg, Joann, "1899—A Year in the Life of Lew Wallace," Montgomery Magazine, XXV (March and April 1999).
               —————,
                        "1899—Ben–Hur Gets Ready for Broadway," Montgomery Magazine, XXV (May 1999).
               —————, "Some Little Known
                        Tidbits on [Lew] Wallace," Montgomery Magazine, XXV [XXIV] (October
                        1998).
               —————, "Where Did the [Lew]
                        Wallace Statue [in Washington, D. C.] Come From?" Montgomery
                        Magazine, XXIV (September 1998).
               "Stone Carver: George Alber," Wabash County Historical Society Newsletter (January/February/March 1999).
               Sugden, John, Tecumseh: A Life (New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1998).
               Sulzer, Elmer, Ghost Railways of Indiana (Bloomington: Indiana University
                        Press, 1998). [Reprint of 1970 edition.]
               "A Tale of Two Teams," Indiana Basketball History, VI
                        (Spring 1998). [The Crispus Attucks Tigers and the Martinsville Artesians.]
               Tatum, James O., ed., 1862 Diary of an Unknown Private of Company
                            "A," 20th Indiana Volunteers ([s.l: s.n.], 1998).
               "They Were Perfect," Part I, Indiana Basketball History,
                        VI (Spring 1998). [Undefeated Indiana high school teams.]
               
                  This Is Our Community (New Albany: Floyd County Historical Society,
                        [1995?]).
               "Three Church of the Brethren Annual Conferences Drew Large Crowds to North
                        Manchester Area," North Manchester Historical Society Newsletter, XV
                        (August 1998).
               Thwaites, Reuben Gold, Afloat on the Ohio: A Historical Pilgrimage of a Thousand
                            Miles in a Skiff, from Redstone to Cairo (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University
                        Press, 1999). [Reprint of 1897 edition.]
               Tjader, Marguerite, Love That Will Not Let Me Go: My Time with Theodore
                        Dreiser (New York: Peter Lang, 1998).
               
                  Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, Tenth Anniversary issue, XI
                        (Winter 1999). [Essays by previous contributors to the magazine, describing the significance to
                        them of images of Indiana's past.]
               Trotter, Joe William, Jr., River Jordan: African American Urban Life in the Ohio
                            Valley (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1998).
               
               Van Allen, Elizabeth J., "My Life with Riley," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Fall 1999).
               Vanderstel, David G., Jane M. Wheeler, and Joyce A. Newby, Gardens of the Early
                            Midwest, As Presented at Conner Prairie Museum (Rev. ed., Fishers, Ind.: Conner Prairie
                        Press, 1998)
               Venner, William Thomas, The 19th Indiana Infantry at Gettysburg:
                            Hoosiers' Courage (Shippensburg, Pa.: Burd Street Press, 1998).
               Waite, Gerald, "An American Sports Icon: Indiana's Dan Patch," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (Summer 1999).
               Wakefield, Dan, How Do We Know When It's God? A Spiritual Memoir
                        (Boston: Little, Brown, 1999).
               Wallis, Don, comp., All We Had Was Each Other…: An Oral History of the
                            Black Community of Madison, Indiana (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998).
               —————, "The Struggle Makes You
                        Strong': From All We Had Was Each Other: The Black Community of Madison,
                            Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI
                        (Summer 1999).
               Weigel, Richard G., "One Size Does Not Fit All: The Story of Karl G. Weigel, Indiana
                        Harnessmaker," Consulting Psychology Journal, LI (Winter 1999),
                        47–56.
               Weintraut, Linda, "A Glimpse of a Past: Lyles and Weaver Settlements,
                        1850–1860," Black History News & Notes, No. 77
                        (August 1999).
               ————— and Jane R. Nolan, "A
                        Window on the World: From 'In the Public Interest': Oral
                            Histories of Hoosier Broadcasters," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, XI (Spring 1999).
               Westchester Public Library, Westchester Township, [Porter County]: Images of America (Charleston, S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 1999).
               "What a Deal!" A series of articles on New Deal architecture in Indiana, Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June 1999).
               
                  What Grandad Told Me: Oral History of the Wabasha Entonga of Indiana, ed.
                        David Walker ([Marion: The editor], 1998).
               Wheaton, James W., comp., Surgeon on Horseback: The Missouri and Arkansas Journal
                            and Letters of Dr. Charles Brackett of Rochester, Indiana, 1861–1863
                        (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana, 1998).
               Whitney, Daniel D., Vee's for Victory! The Story oftheAllison
                            V–1710 Aircraft Engine, 1929–1948 (Atglen, Pa.: Schiffer
                        Publishing, 1998).
               Whorrall, Bill, "I Remember When: The Bel–Air Drive–in [near
                        Osgood]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XI (February
                        1999).
               Wilson, Denise Marie, "Vincennes: From French Colonial Village to American Frontier
                        Town" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of West Virginia, 1997).
               
               "Wir Trinken und Tanzen im Germania Park: Fort Wayne German–American
                        Society and the National German American Alliance during World War I," Old
                            Fort News, LX, No. 1 (1997).
               Wissing, Douglas, Traveling the Ohio River Scenic Route through Southern
                        Indiana (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana, 1999).
               Ziegner, Martha M., View from the Press Shack: Indiana Politics from the Notebook
                            of Edward H. Ziegner (Indianapolis: The author, [1999?]).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
