
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 104, Issue 3, pages 213-320. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:104+issue:3+year:2008&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
          
          
               
               
                    The Bicycle Boom and the Bicycle Bloc: Cycling and Politics in the
                         1890s
                    MICHAEL TAYLOR
                    On October 9, 1896, readers of the Indianapolis News
                         learned that about three hundred cyclists planned to gather that evening
                         for a parade before boarding a special train bound for 
                              Canton
                         , 
                              Ohio
                         . The cyclists were to carry flambeaus and lanterns; their
                         bikes would be fitted out with "bicycle locusts,"
                         noisemakers designed to catch the attention of passers-by.1 The group left for 
                              Ohio
                          soon after the parade, making several stops along the way in
                         places like 
                              Anderson
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , to pick up additional "wheelmen." On board
                         the train was a special bicycle, carefully wrapped in a blanket, and stored
                         in a place all to itself to prevent damage. Upon reaching their
                         destination, the 
                              Indiana
                          wheelmen were met by a bicycle escort and led to the house of
                         Governor William McKinley, then in the final stretch of a hot race for the
                         presidency. After addressing the crowd of cyclists, McKinley was presented
                         with his shining new bicycle. "Major McKinley is not a
                         bicyclist," the News reported 
                              Michael Taylor holds graduate degrees in history and library
                                   science from Indiana University and is currently a special
                                   collections curator at Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge.
                                   He would like to thank Claude Clegg, Eric Sandweiss, the staff of
                                   the IMH, and the anonymous reviewer for their
                                   helpful comments.
                              1"Wheelmen Leave for 
                                        Canton
                                   ," Indianapolis News,
                                   October 9, 1896, p. 8.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (September 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University.
                         
                         
                         
                              McKinley Campaign Button, 1896In the 1890s, the
                                   popularity of bicycling and the new phenomenon of political
                                   buttons combined to produce a new motif in campaign
                                   advertising. Courtesy of the author
                          on the following day, "but has frequently expressed his
                         admiration for the sport, and no one will be surprised to see him at one of
                         the cycle schools with his new wheel in the near future."2
                    It would be easy to brush off this story as just another sign of the cycling
                         craze of the 1890s. Large groups of cyclists were, after all, a common
                         sight at the end of the nineteenth century. 1896 was the height of the
                         "bicycle boom," a period of almost ten years when
                         Americans of every age, class, sex, and race fell head-over-heels in love
                         with a novel form of transportation that promised health and happiness,
                         personal 
                              2"The 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    Crowd," Indianapolis
                                   News, October 10, 1896, p. 1. 
                         
                         liberty and social equality. As Richard
                         Harmond has observed, the success of the cycling craze was due in large
                         part to the "paradoxical attraction of the bicycle - as an
                         instance of inventive progress and as a means of flight from the
                         consequences of such progress."3 On a more basic
                         level, however, this success can be attributed to major improvements in
                         bicycle design in the late 1880s that resulted in a safer, more comfortable
                         form of transportation, one essentially no different from the bicycle we
                         ride today. Thanks to these improvements, millions of ordinary Americans
                         became cyclists in the 1890s. "Everyone was supposed to ride a
                         bicycle and one was not what they called 'in the swim'
                         unless you mastered the wheel," one contemporary later wrote.4
                         
                              America
                          was "wheel crazy," and the sight of large
                         groups of cyclists was not unusual.
                    What was unusual was the fact that only a week before McKinley addressed the
                         crowd of 
                              Indiana
                          wheelmen, the governor's front lawn had been trampled
                         by an even larger crowd of cyclists. On that occasion, at least 3,000
                         wheelmen had come from as far away as 
                              Chicago
                         , 
                              Cleveland
                         , 
                              Buffalo
                         , 
                              Pittsburgh
                         , 
                              Louisville
                         , and 
                              Cincinnati
                         . They were men who, according to one member of their ranks,
                         represented "no particular section of the country, but all
                         sections; no particular occupation, but all occupations; no particular
                         interests, but all interests; no particular rank in life, but all
                              ranks."5 In spite of the group's
                         diversity, however, they did have at least one thing in common: they had
                         all been bewitched by the tactics of the GOP. Almost all summer long
                         Republican leaders had been trying to transform 
                              America's
                          ongoing infatuation with the bicycle into a love for the
                         Republican Party and everything it stood for. Although the chairman of the
                         Republican National Committee, Mark Hanna of 
                              Cleveland
                         , 
                              Ohio
                         , employed many clever strategies for bringing voters into the
                         Republican fold in 1896, his attempt to win over the nation's
                         legions of enthusiastic bicyclists addressed several major problems that
                         faced the party that year: the vast geographic expanse of the American
                         interior, widespread economic and psychological depression, and, not least
                         of all, the Democratic candidate William Jennings Bryan, who, to the dread
                         of many Republicans, had embarked on a campaign to appeal 
                              3Richard Harmond, "Progress and
                                   Flight: An Interpretation of the American Cycle Craze of the
                                   1890s," Journal of Social History, 5
                                   (Winter 1971-72), 236.
                              4Edith Harrison, "Bicycles and
                                   Billiards," box 19, folder 952, Papers of Carter H.
                                   Harrison Jr., The Newberry Library, 
                                        Chicago
                                   .
                              5"His Record is Broken,"
                                        Chicago Daily Tribune, October 4, 1896, p.
                                   5.
                         
                         directly to the American people via an
                         unprecedented "whistle-stop" campaign tour. An
                         understanding of Hanna's tactics casts new light on his genius as
                         a political strategist and on the desperate measures to which the GOP was
                         willing to resort in order to win the election. The events of 1896,
                         however, were part of a much larger story, for even though it was the
                         Republicans who finally won the support of the "bicycle
                         bloc" during the 1896 McKinley-Bryan standoff, a very different
                         scene played out in 1897, when two Democratic mayoral candidates - Carter
                         H. Harrison Jr. of 
                              Chicago
                          and Thomas Taggart of 
                              Indianapolis
                          - succeeded, at least in part, by seeking and securing the
                         support of cyclists. For their part, cyclists were far more than passive
                         participants in the political process. They were, in fact, masterful
                         politicians in their own right, and, as I will show, they turned a national
                         craze for an exciting new form of technology to their personal and
                         political advantage. Historians have already recognized the importance of
                         the bicycle in the women's rights movement of the late nineteenth
                              century.6 In this article, I demonstrate that, in
                         the same period, the bicycle also helped middle-class white males -
                         politicians and cyclists - reshape the nature of the political
                         establishment and acquire power in doing so.
                    Before delving into the details of the relationship between these elections
                         and the bicycle boom, it is worth taking a moment to answer the question of
                         what exactly the bicycle bloc was and how it came into existence. Although
                         representatives of the bicycle industry often advertised the bicycle as an
                         appropriate vehicle for a forward-looking, egalitarian, democratic nation,
                         and stood to reap some very tangible rewards from the establishment of a
                         bicycle bloc, the actual creation of this bloc was the work of the League
                         of American Wheelmen. Founded in 1880, the LAW was a national organization
                         of cyclists whose members worked to promote a greater appreciation and
                         awareness of cycling, to encourage cycling-friendly legislation, to stand
                         behind cyclists who felt they had been mistreated by state and local
                         governments or other entities such as railroad corporations, and, above
                         all, to encourage the construction and maintenance of good roads. Its
                         membership grew steadily, numbering over 70,000 at the height of the
                         cycling craze, and although in 1896 more than half its members hailed from
                         New England, 
                              New
                                   York
                         , 
                              6Ellen Gruber Garvey, "Reframing
                                   the Bicycle: Advertising-Supported Magazines and Scorching
                                   Women," American Quarterly, 47 (March
                                   1995), 66-101.
                         
                          or 
                              Pennsylvania
                         , the LAW had constituents in every state and territory in the
                         country; moreover, its prominence on the national cycling scene meant that
                         it also had the power to influence the millions of American cyclists who
                         did not officially belong to the league. Even before cycling's
                         popularity took off in the 1890s, the LAW had urged cyclists to unite and
                         put pressure on politicians to meet their demands for better roads and fair
                         treatment. As early as 1881, the league's president called for
                         "laying aside all differences of party politics" in
                         cities where wheelmen had come into conflict with municipal governments, in
                         order that they might "combine, and use their earnest organized
                         efforts to defeat and kill off politically any alderman, mayor, or other
                         official who should attempt to deny their just rights."7 Two years later, A. H. Curtiss, addressing a crowd
                         of wheelmen at a banquet in 
                              New
                                   York
                         , received a round of applause after commenting: "We
                         are a strong body. Take us consolidated together, and we command a great
                         many votes. I think that if we make a little deal with the politicians it
                         wouldn't be very long ... before you will have both the
                         Republicans and Democrats running after the 'wheel'
                              votes."8 Naturally the amount of pressure
                         that the league could apply grew as the number of cyclists grew. By 1896
                         one wheelman from 
                              Anderson
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , was able to declare: "[W]e are of such a number that
                         due consideration must be given us on account of our votes and the
                         influence we can exert in National politics . . . we should urge our
                         L.A.W's, without regard to party, to organize political clubs....
                         Enroll every wheelman in the cause, and the organizing of these clubs will
                         say to the party in power, 'We are a factor in politics, and
                         demand that the great cause of Good Roads be given
                              consideration.'"'9 LAW
                         president Sterling Elliott echoed this belief when he said that
                         "if every wheelman in the country was a member of the league we
                         would hold the balance of power, so that even the president of the 
                              United States
                          could be elected or defeated by the united forces of bicycle
                              riders."10
                    The LAW was remarkable - it was deeply interested in politics and yet
                         remained nonpartisan. Time and time again, the organization's
                              
                              7"The Political Power of the
                                   L.A.W," Wheelman, 2 (May 1881),
                                   100.
                              8"Speeches Made at the Banquet of
                                   the League of American Wheelmen, Monday, May 28, 1883, at
                                   Metropolitan Hotel, 
                                        New
                                             York City
                                   ," Wheelman, 2 (August
                                   1883), 371.
                              9"Good Roads and
                                   Politics," L.A.W Bulletin and Good
                                        Roads, 24 (September 4, 1896), 337.
                              10Joe Ward, "The Trials &
                                   Tribulations of the Turn-of-the-Century Cyclists,"
                                   Louisville Bicycle Club website,
                                   http://www.louisvillebicycleclub.org/misc/hist06.htm.
                         
                         literature stressed that it was not
                         affiliated with any political party and would support candidates who
                         promised to work in the best interests of wheelmen. Non-partisanship was,
                         in fact, the key to achieving its goals, for not only would the lack of any
                         obvious party sympathies help to ensure a broad membership, but it would
                         also make it clear to politicians that the LAW represented a large body of
                         swing voters who were willing to play a game of tit-for-tat. "Give
                         us good roads and fair treatment and we will give you our votes and our
                         influence," was the message that American cyclists sent to
                         politicians. Nourished by the bicycle boom, the seeds sown in the 1880s
                         finally began to flower in the 1890s, and, as had been predicted, the
                         American "wheel rider" suddenly found himself being
                         courted by ambitious office-seekers who saw what was to be gained by
                         catering to the bicycle bloc. With this new political power in mind, we
                         return to William McKinley's campaign in the final weeks leading
                         up to the election of 1896.
                    "Don't you remember that I announced that I would not under
                         any circumstances go on a speech-making tour?" McKinley retorted
                         to one of his aides. "If I should go now it would be an
                         acknowledgement of weakness. Moreover, I might just as well put up a
                         trapeze on my front lawn and compete with some professional athlete as go
                         out speaking against Bryan."11 Despite
                         McKinley's best hopes, he and his party were weaker than they
                         believed as the 1896 campaign unfolded. Although the ongoing economic
                         crisis, coupled with Grover Cleveland's four years of uninspired
                         leadership, had seemed almost to guarantee an easy Republican victory in
                         the coming election, the sudden appearance of William Jennings Bryan in the
                         summer of 1896 changed everything. Bryan's famous "Cross
                         of Gold" speech, delivered at the Democratic National Convention
                         in St. Louis on July 7, touched off a firestorm that the Republicans barely
                         survived. "You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this
                         crown of thorns, you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of
                         gold," Bryan bellowed, the "cross" referring to
                         the gold standard, which he and many Democrats believed gave middle- and
                         upper- class residents of the industrialized Northeast an unfair advantage
                         over the poor and those Americans living in areas west of the Alleghenies.
                         His solution was to adopt a bimetallic money standard, whereby silver and
                         gold would be coined at a ratio of sixteen-to-one. This policy, Bryan 
                              11Bascom M. Timmons, Portrait
                                        of an American: Charles G. Dawes (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1953), 56.
                         
                         argued, would increase the amount of
                         money in circulation and give a leg up to Americans who had fallen on hard
                         times. Although most experts considered bimetallism risky at best, the
                         genie was already out of the bottle: Bryan had dared to offer a way out to
                         the hundreds of thousands of people from whom the American dream was
                         slipping away. Farmers and laborers in the South, the West, and large parts
                         of the Midwest considered him a crusader, and before long one witness could
                         write: "The people in that section are simply crazy upon the money
                              question."12 "His own weakness
                         as a thinker was beside the point," one of McKinley's
                         biographers has written of Bryan. Although McKinley could offer material
                         comfort, his platform "lacked the mystical vision of the American
                         dream. Bryan's platform had precisely that dream."13
                    Bryan set about turning the nation's geography to his advantage. Up
                         to that time, politicians had generally traveled only when necessary,
                         largely because of the difficulty of reaching some parts of the
                         nineteenth-century American interior, but also because many Americans
                         considered campaigning to be beneath the dignity of a candidate for high
                         office, particularly that of president. Consequently, Americans tended to
                         vote for parties rather than individuals. Bryan, however, cast tradition to
                         the wind in 1896. He chartered a train and set off on an extensive tour
                         that took him to more than half the states and made it possible for him to
                         appeal directly to the American people, drawing on the force of his
                         character to win their hearts and minds. The Republicans cringed. Thanks to
                         Bryan, "the number of people to be reached, educated and convinced
                         was much larger than in any National campaign in the history of the
                         country," one Republican leader recalled in 1906. "[W]e
                         had to meet an entirely new issue . . . [and] expand our efforts over a
                         much greater territory."14 To try to undo the
                         damage Bryan was causing from the back of his train, GOP leaders came up
                         with some new strategies of their own.
                    To begin with, party officials decided that McKinley needed to take on a more
                         active role in the campaign. Nobody said he had to swing from a trapeze. In
                         fact, his front-porch campaign, which had been going on since spring and
                         which operated on the belief that the delegations of 
                              12A. B. Farquar to Henry Thurber, May 2,
                                   1895, quoted in H. Wayne Morgan, William McKinley
                                        and His 
                                             America
                                        , rev. ed. (
                                        Kent
                                   , 
                                        Ohio
                                   , 2003), 161.
                              13Morgan, McKinley and His 
                                             America
                                        , 169.
                              14Interview with Charles Dick, February 10,
                                   1906, quoted in Michael E. McGerr, The Decline of
                                        Popular Politics: The American North, 1865-1928 (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1986), 139.
                         
                          voters who traveled to 
                              Canton
                          to hear McKinley speak would return to their own towns and
                         states and do the rest of his campaigning for him, would do nicely if only
                         it could be intensified. The Republicans succeeded in this regard, and
                         during the summer and fall of 1896, more than 750,000 people made the trip
                         to 
                              Canton
                         .15 The second part of the
                         Republicans' strategy was to flood the country with Republican
                         literature. While Bryan was out riding the rails and making stump speeches,
                         Mark Hanna was overseeing the printing of millions of posters and pamphlets
                         booming McKinley and the Republican ticket. A bottomless till meant that
                         there was essentially no limit to the amount of this literature that could
                         be produced. Finally, Republican clubs were established to help rally
                         voters, organize political events, and distribute campaign literature. This
                         was a sound strategy in its own right, but party leaders soon realized that
                         at least one thing would bring all three prongs of their strategy together
                         - the bicycle.
                    Cyclists would be the perfect campaigners. First of all, there were thousands
                         of them and their numbers were growing, so much so that bicycle
                         manufacturers could hardly keep up with demand. And not only did cyclists
                         love to be part of a crowd, they also displayed an impressive ability to
                         draw a crowd of their own. In 1895, one Fourth of July bicycle derby in 
                              Chicago
                         , for example, drew 25,000 people. Cyclists were also willing
                         to travel long distances to take part in cycling events. 
                              Independence
                         , 
                              Iowa
                         , celebrated that same Fourth of July with bicycle races that
                         included participants who had traveled as far as sixty miles to compete,
                         and even the wheelmen's tournament that was held in 
                              Cheyenne
                         , 
                              Wyoming
                         , that day drew spectators from as far away as 
                              Denver
                          and 
                              Fort
                                   Collins
                         , 
                              Colorado
                         .16 Surely cyclists would come to 
                              Canton
                         , too. There were hundreds and probably even thousands of
                         bicycle clubs across the country, many of whose members were enthusiastic
                         young businessmen with interests that the Republican Party promised to
                         protect. It was in their best interest to come to 
                              Canton
                         . And once they had come and seen for
                         themselves what a great man McKinley was, they would go home and start
                         spreading the word about the GOP. They could 
                              15Morgan, McKinley and His 
                                             America
                                        , 176-77.
                              16"Good Time at 
                                        Independence
                                   " and "Slayback Wins Three
                                   Races," Chicago Daily Tribune, July 5,
                                   1895, p. 4; Third Annual Bicycle-Tournament Under
                                        the Auspices of the Cheyenne Bicycle Club (
                                        Cheyenne
                                   , 
                                        Wy.
                                   , 1895).
                         
                         help distribute all that campaign
                         literature, too. A man on a bicycle, after all, would be able to cover more
                         territory in less time than a man traveling on foot. Cyclists could also
                         travel far out into the country and reach small towns and farms that may
                         have had limited contact with more densely populated and politically
                         informed areas.
                    There were other ways in which the bicycle was a godsend. The bicycle
                         industry was one of the few that had actually grown
                         during the depression of 1893-96. Steel mills, rubber manufacturers,
                         mechanics, department store owners, and even tailors and shoemakers all
                         benefited from the cycling craze. The bicycle came to stand for honest
                         industry, and that was something people could be optimistic about.
                         Republicans could also tap into a well-developed bicycle advertising
                         infrastructure; just as advertisements had helped the bicycle industry to
                         prosper during the lean years of the mid-1890s, there was no reason to
                         believe they could not do the same for McKinley. Furthermore, the main
                         issues of the 1896 campaign - money standards and tariffs - were not easy
                         subjects to interest people in, even though, if rather inadequately, both
                         parties did manage to explain these subjects in terms the average American
                         could understand; on a similar note, the economic depression that had led
                         to the debate over the "money question" in the first
                         place was psychologically depressing. The bicycle might well add a touch of
                         lightheartedness to an otherwise serious campaign. Despite the importance
                         of pamphlets in the election of 1896, "education alone,"
                         as historian Michael McGerr has written, "did not win the battle
                         for McKinley or lose it for Bryan."17
                         Amusement, far from diverting attention from the issues at stake, helped to
                         lure people into the debate and thus complemented the GOP's
                         educational campaign. In short, bikes were both bait and hook.
                    The bicycle campaign got underway in 
                              Chicago
                          on August 5, when the National Wheelmen's McKinley
                         and Hobart Club was organized. "They Ride for Gold," the
                              Tribune declared only a few days later, adding that
                         cyclists and perhaps other voters as well could be "influenced by
                         the movements of their associates." "These men, when they
                         see their companions joining the National Republican Wheelmen's
                         club, will join 'just to be with the crowd.' There they
                         will receive the instruction which will make them Republican voters . . .
                         The Republican leaders have recognized the wheel as an important factor,
                         and look to the new organization 
                              17McGerr, Decline of Popular
                                        Politics, 142.
                         
                         
                         
                              McKinley and Hobart Club Pin, 1896 Bicycle clubs
                                   were formed to support candidates and to exploit the cycle as a
                                   means of disseminating campaign information. Courtesy of the
                                   author
                          to swell the hosts beneath the McKinley banner."18 At the Republican National Committee headquarters,
                         a special room was set aside for wheelmen.19 Ten
                         thousand 
                              Windy
                                   City
                          cyclists were expected to join the club from its inception,
                         and there were plans to establish chapters in other cities.20
                    In September, for example, the chairman of the Bexar County Republican
                         committee in 
                              San
                                   Antonio
                         , 
                              Texas
                         , received a note from GOP headquarters in 
                              Chicago
                         : 
                              18"They Ride for Gold,"
                                        Chicago Daily Tribune, August 9, 1896, p.
                                   30.
                              19"Good Roads and
                                   Politics," 337.
                              20"M'Kinley Wheelmen
                                   Organize," Washington Post, August 6,
                                   1896, p. 9.
                         
                         
                         The national committee recognizes that your
                              influence and cooperation will be of great assistance, and you are
                              requested to promote the immediate organization of McKinley and Hobart
                              Wheelmen's clubs in every precinct in your county.... Kindly
                              send us the names of one or two prominent business men who ride the
                              bicycle, in each town in your county, who may be commissioned to
                              organize these clubs. Also send list of your ward and township
                              committeemen, whom we will ask to obtain for us the names of all
                              wheelmen of voting age in their several communities, to whom we may
                              send special campaign literature. Wheelmen's clubs will be an
                              important factor in this campaign. Not only will they be attractive
                              features of all local parades and act as escorts for speakers, but all
                              clubs will be expected to detail members to act as messengers for your
                              committee and distribute campaign documents, besides helping to get
                              out the vote and bring in election returns.21 Dozens and perhaps hundreds of these clubs popped up.
                         Their activities varied, but parades occupied a large part of their time.
                         In 
                              Chicago
                          on the evening of October 1, fifteen-hundred wheelmen paraded
                         down Michigan Avenue to Washington Park. October 17 was designated
                         Wheelman's Day, and Hanna was expected to join the evening
                         procession to Lake Front Park, where he and other Republican leaders would
                         give speeches. On October 24, at least three-thousand wheelmen held three
                         separate parades on the north, west, and south sides of 
                              Chicago
                         .22 In addition to showing up for parades,
                         cyclists also served as escorts for political speakers. In 
                              Indianapolis
                          on October 30, for example, one hundred Republican wheelmen
                         rode to former President Benjamin Harrison's home on North
                         Delaware Street to escort him to Union Station as he set out on a speaking
                         tour in support of McKinley.23 Earlier that week,
                         Harrison had been joined by wheelmen for a parade in 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         , home of the Sound Money Bicycle Club. With four-hundred
                         members, the club took part in parades, held public races, and escorted
                              
                              21"M'Kinley
                                   Bicyclists," (
                                        San Antonio
                                   , 
                                        Tex.
                                   ) Daily Light, September 22, 1896,
                                   p. 8.
                              22"October 17 Wheelmen's
                                   Day," Washington Post, October 7,
                                   1896, p. 3; "Wheelmen's Day Parade
                                   Program," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                                   October 16, 1896, p. 2. 23"His Second Tour,"
                                        Dubuque Daily Herald, October 31, 1896, p.
                                   1.
                         
                         Republican speakers from 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                          to nearby towns such as 
                              Cedarville
                          and 
                              New
                                   Haven
                         . When Richard Guenther came to the city in September to help
                         secure the decisive German vote for McKinley, sound-money cyclists escorted
                         him to the Princess Rink, where he was to deliver an address on the money
                         question. Gubernatorial candidate James Mount received a similar welcome
                         when he arrived on October 7.24
                    The Republican bicycle club in 
                              Terre
                                   Haute
                          grew steadily from 163 members at its inception on September 5
                         to 850 by the end of October. Invitations to sign the club's
                         roster were extended "to all wheelmen who are interested in
                         'sound money, steady work and good roads,'" and
                         residents of both the city and surrounding areas were encouraged to attend
                         club meetings "regardless of politics." The club handed
                         out so many campaign buttons that more had to be ordered. African American
                         wheelmen were invited to join, and it was believed that the city would be
                         the first in the country to hold a Republican parade in which women
                         cyclists would take part. On October 3, a party of wheelmen rode to 
                              Seelyville
                         , a small mining community ten miles east of 
                              Terre
                                   Haute
                         , to participate in a Republican rally, and later that month
                         club members joined a demonstration in 
                              Marshall
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , which was attended by Abraham Lincoln's son Robert.
                         "Tuesday, October 20, is destined to be a red letter day in the
                         history of 
                              Terre
                                   Haute
                         ," one newspaper declared. The city's
                         wheelmen were to hold a grand illuminated parade that evening in honor of
                         McKinley. Prizes, donated by local businessmen, were offered for the
                         best-decorated bicycles. To the "best high wheel of ye olde
                         time" would go a fishing rod; other prizes included an Oriental
                         rug, a lamp, gloves, a rocking chair, $7.50 in cash, bicycle boots, a
                         bicycle cape, two hats, a dozen McKinley tumblers, and twenty shaves. One
                         thousand cyclists took part in the parade. Russell Harrison, son of
                         ex-President Benjamin Harrison and chairman of the Terre Haute Electric
                         Railway Company, had a searchlight placed on the balcony of the
                         city's most prominent hotel, the Terre Haute House, to help
                         illuminate the scene below. Many extravagantly decorated bicycles appeared
                         in the parade, including one covered with flowers. Others were more mindful
                         of the evening's theme. 
                              24"In a Big Tent," Fort Wayne News, October 26, 1896, p. 1;
                                   "The Parade To-Night," Fort Wayne
                                        News, October 30, 1896, p. 1; "Wheelmen are
                                   Mostly for McKinley and Sound Money," Fort
                                        Wayne Gazette, August 26, 1896, p. 1; [untitled], Fort Wayne News, September 12, 1896;
                                   "Political Notes," Fort Wayne
                                        News, October 6, 1896, p. 1; "At 
                                        New Haven
                                   ," Fort Wayne Weekly
                                        Gazette, October 1, 1896, p. 2; "A German
                                   Rally," Fort Wayne News, September 15,
                                   1896, p. 1.
                         
                         Two wheelmen, for example, carried a
                         picture of McKinley and his running mate Garrett Hobart. With a trolley
                         supplying the electricity, the image was lit by incandescent light
                         bulbs.
                    Republicans did not limit their activities to cities. Many small towns had
                         been struck by cycling fever as well. The Plymouth Cycle Manufacturing
                         Company of 
                              Plymouth
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , for example, sold bicycles and bicycle parts not only in 
                              Chicago
                          and 
                              Indianapolis
                         , but also in places like 
                              Warren
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         ; 
                              Ottawa
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         ; 
                              Windom
                         , 
                              Minnesota
                         ; 
                              Mt.
                                   Sterling
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         ; and 
                              Coffeeville
                         , 
                              Kansas
                         .25 Small-town 
                              America's
                          interest in the bicycle did not stop there, however;
                         townspeople also participated in the bicycle campaign. Thirty-five members
                         of a McKinley bicycle club from 
                              Rockville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , rode across rural 
                              Parke
                                   County
                          in the last week of September to attend a political rally in
                         the little town of 
                              Montezuma
                         .26 A month later, a club from 
                              Marion
                         , 
                              Iowa
                         , rode to 
                              Cedar
                                   Rapids
                          to take part in a McKinley parade.27 When
                         Senator Julius Caesar Burrows spoke to a crowd of workers on the money
                         question in 
                              Menominee
                         , 
                              Michigan
                         , a small town in the state's upper peninsula, there
                         was a parade afterwards in which several Republican clubs,
                         "including a battalion of wheelmen carrying flambeaus,"
                              participated.28 Two hundred wheelmen turned out
                         again in 
                              Menominee
                          a few days before the election, despite bad weather, to join
                         one thousand of their fellow citizens in another show of support for
                              McKinley.29 Cyclists in 
                              Kaukauna
                          and 
                              Waukesha
                         , 
                              Wisconsin
                         , endorsed McKinley and sound money, as did most of the
                         wheelmen of 
                              Decatur
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         .30 On September 17, McKinley received a
                         note from George M. Ridgen of 
                              Streator
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         : "Greeting. Fifty wheelmen of 
                              Streator
                          local branch of the National McKinley and Hobart club at your
                              service."31 Small towns were also
                         targeted by wheelmen from larger cities. "Wheelmen of an
                         oratorical turn," the Chicago
                         
                              25Letters to Plymouth Cycle Manufacturing
                                   Company, various dates, in possession of author.
                              26"McKinley Bicycle Club,"
                                        Terre Haute Express, September 26, 1896,
                                   p. 3.
                              27"The County Capital,"
                                        Cedar Rapids Evening Gazette, October 27,
                                   1896, p. 2.
                              28"Senator Burrows at 
                                        Menominee
                                   ," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                                   September 29, 1896, p. 3.
                              29"Greatest in 
                                        Detroit's
                                    History," Chicago Daily
                                        Tribune, November 1, 1896, p. 6.
                              30"Solid for McKinley," (
                                        Oshkosh
                                   , 
                                        Wis.
                                   ) Daily Northwestern, October 10,
                                   1896, p. 1; "Ready to Tune Up," (
                                        Waukesha
                                   , 
                                        Wis.
                                   ) Waukesha Freeman, October 29,
                                   1896, p. 1; "The Cycling Club Parade Meeting," (
                                        Decatur
                                   , 
                                        Ill.
                                   ) Evening Republican, September 14,
                                   1896, p. 8.
                              31"The Big Day," Fort Wayne News, September 17, 1896, p.
                                   1.
                         
                         
                         Tribune reported of a group of 
                              Baltimore
                          cyclists, "will make short speeches at the various
                         country stores on the crossroads and at wayside resorts."32
                    By the time of the election, wheelmen's political clubs operated in
                         all of the midwestern battleground states - 
                              Ohio
                         , 
                              Michigan
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , 
                              Wisconsin
                         , 
                              Iowa
                         , and 
                              Minnesota
                          - and in towns both large and small. It is clear that these
                         clubs participated very actively in parades and rallies; the degree to
                         which they were involved in the pamphlet war is less well documented, but
                         we may speculate based upon a comment made a few weeks before the election
                         by 
                              Chicago
                          GOP leader Chauncey Depew. Addressing a packed house of
                         Republicans, Depew hailed the wheelmen in the crowd as "one of the
                         most active and most intelligent agencies in distributing sound money
                              literature."33 The election of 1896 was
                         not even the first time cyclists had been called upon to distribute
                         political pamphlets. In 1892, for example, the short-lived Columbian Party
                         published "An Address to Independent Voters" urging them
                         to oppose the Democratic policy on currency reform. They also published a
                         "Notice to Wheelmen": "From this time forth the
                         wheel will be a potent factor in American politics," it reads.
                         "Wheelmen in all parts of the 
                              United States
                          who believe in honest money, in a tariff for revenue only, and
                         in the reform of the civil service, are requested to read the accompanying
                         document entitled 'An Address to Independent Voters.'
                         Those who are willing to aid in the distribution of this document in the
                         country districts are requested to send their addresses to The Committee of
                         Seven, Box 5234, 
                              Boston
                         , 
                              Mass.
                         "34 Prior to the coming of the
                         automobile, the bicycle was by far the most efficient means of distributing
                         political literature, not only in the cities, but on the farm as well. To
                         politicians eager to secure the rural vote, moreover, cyclists'
                         close ties to the Good Roads movement, from which farmers and country
                         merchants stood to profit, must also have made them seem like the perfect
                         campaigners.
                    Another way in which the Republicans took advantage of the bicycle in 1896
                         was by adopting it as an advertising logo. This was a brilliant idea -
                         bicycles were, after all, one of the most recognizable and fashionable
                              
                              32"Bicyclists to do Campaign
                                   Work," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                                   September 14, 1896, p. 2.
                              33"Chauncey M. Depew's
                                   Address," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                                   October 10, 1896, pp. 1, 7.
                              34"Notice to Wheelmen,"
                                   [1892], pamphlet in author's possession.
                         
                         products of the 1890s, and ads for them
                         appeared everywhere. Even the smallest newspapers routinely carried bicycle
                         ads, and readers of big dailies such as the St. Louis
                              Post-Dispatch and the Chicago Tribune often
                         found entire pages or even whole sections given over to bicycles. The same
                         was true of more high-toned publications. The popular McClure's magazine - edited by S. S. McClure, an Irish
                         immigrant to 
                              Indiana
                         , a cycling aficionado, and one-time editor of the leading
                         sports magazine of the day, Wheelman (later renamed Outing)- was filled with bicycle advertisements during
                         the era of the cycling boom. The bicycle industry knew how to sell its
                         product, and Hanna's realization that he could pirate this
                         advertising infrastructure to sell a political candidate like McKinley was
                         nothing less than a stroke of genius. Theodore Roosevelt said of Hanna that
                         "he has advertised McKinley as if he were a patent
                         medicine!" It would not have been amiss of Roosevelt to say
                         "as if he were a bicycle."
                    By sheer luck, another craze - the craze for the newly invented celluloid
                         lapel button - played into the Republicans' hands perfectly.
                         "Everybody is the victim of the craze sweeping the
                         country," one 
                              Indiana
                          newspaper reported in August 1896.35
                         Bicycle manufacturers lost no time in getting in on this latest fad, and
                         all the major manufacturers handed them out. The Republicans, too, managed
                         to take advantage of both the button craze and the bicycle craze, producing
                         at least five political buttons that either advertised the National
                         Wheelmen's McKinley and Hobart Club or drew some sort of parallel
                         between bicycles and the political race. One shows a spry Governor McKinley
                         sporting bicycle stockings and a cycling cap as he rides a wheel toward the
                         White House. On another, we find McKinley and Hobart riding a tandem
                         bicycle down the road to the executive mansion. The caption: "Gold
                         Didn't Get There July 7th (the date of Bryan's
                         nomination), But Watch Us Take It There Nov. 3rd." A pin showing
                         Hanna reveals even more explicitly the similarities between political and
                         corporate advertising. The wily chairman of the GOP is perched on a
                         handsome gold bicycle with cameos of McKinley and Hobart fitted into its
                         wheels. Cautious customers are reassured that the product is
                         "Warranted for 4 Years." A button showing Uncle Sam at
                         the handlebars advertises the "Old Reliable G.O.P.
                         Bicycle."
                    
                         35"Who Has the Button," Terre Haute Express, August 31, 1896, p. 3.
                    
                    
                    
                         Two views of a bicycle manufacturer's political
                              pin, 1896 The Orient Bicycle Company produced one pin for both
                              sides of the presidential race, even though a majority of wheelmen
                              supported McKinley. Courtesy of the author
                    
                    In their own advertising, bicycle manufacturers do not appear to have come
                         out in favor of a particular candidate (although they would presumably have
                         favored McKinley, a supporter of protective tariffs that promised to keep
                         the price of imported European bicycles high). The Orient Bicycle Company
                         of 
                              New
                                   Haven
                         , 
                              Connecticut
                         , however, perhaps wanting to capitalize on the excitement of
                         the 1896 campaign while not committing to one candidate or the other, put
                         out a small hangtag that summer with the words "The Orient
                         Bicycle" and "A Sure Winner" printed on it. On
                         closer inspection it becomes clear that "A Sure Winner"
                         refers not only to Orient bicycles but also to one of that year's
                         presidential candidates: the tag has a small window and a wheel inside of
                         it which, when rotated, will reveal either the name
                         "McKinley" or "Bryan." It is up to the
                         customer to decide who the winner will be.
                    This little tag reminds us that no matter how much support cyclists may have
                         shown for the Republicans in 1896, some cyclists, in fact, favored Bryan.
                         "Bicycle night at the Exposition was, it might be said, one round
                         of success, in spite of the fact that thousands of people were drawn away
                         by the Bryan gatherings," the St. Louis
                              Post-Dispatch
                          reported in September.36 Although the article does not explicitly state that cyclists
                         were among those who went to see Bryan, a later article reporting on the
                         activities of the Southwest Cycle Club mentions that "as Bryan was
                         a magnet for the 'silver' members of the club last
                         Saturday, the number who attended the Exposition was not as large as it
                         otherwise would have been."37 Another Post-Dispatch report gives further evidence that not all
                         cycling enthusiasts were pro-McKinley. "People who attend bicycle
                         races," the paper reported on October 9, "are growing
                         tired of the persistent efforts of the politicians to drag politics into
                         all cycling events." At a race in 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                         , the crowd had shouted down Republican spokesman Gus Pleus,
                         who had attempted to call a meeting to boom the gold standard under the
                         guise of discussing good roads. "His association of the good roads
                         agitation with the Wall Street money doctrine was what angered the crowd.
                         They got up and howled in chorus, making it impossible for Pleus to hear
                         his own voice. He got as far as 'good roads and sound
                         money,' but no further. . . . There were thousands of people there
                         who did not believe that Wall Street money was the right kind of sound
                         money.... There are not a few politicians who ride wheels and participate
                         in these meets and their aim is to capture the organization for Mr. Hanna
                         and his candidate. The other wheelmen are aware of the schemes of the Hanna
                         emissaries and they propose to discourage them at every
                              outbreak."38
                    Sterling Elliott, president of the LAW and editor of L.A.W
                              Bulletin and Good Roads, faced similar criticism after he
                         published a pro-McKinley article entitled "The Value of a
                         Dollar." In the summer and fall of 1896, the supposedly
                         nonpartisan bulletin carried a weekly two-page section called "The
                         Money Question." Criticism poured in. "I like the L.A.W.
                         Bulletin when it sticks to good roads, but in finance it gives me that
                         'punctured tire' feeling," one reader from
                         Colorado complained, while LAW member number 46,067 declared: "I
                         am a Democrat, and believe in the free coinage of gold and silver at the
                         ratio of 16 to 1."39 In October,
                         "Sevir" wrote to the editor: "I have been a
                         Republican; am for Bryan now, - not because I have become a Democrat
                         completely, but 
                              36"The Bicyclers and the
                                   Band," St. Louis Post-Dispatch,
                                   September 13, 1896, p. 20.
                              37"Southwest Cycle Club,"
                                        St. Louis Post-Dispatch, September 20,
                                   1896, p. 20.
                              38"Cycling and Politics,"
                                        St. Louis Post-Dispatch, October 9, 1896,
                                   p. 6.
                              39"The Money Question,"
                                        L.A.W Bulletin and Good Roads, 24
                                   (September 4, 1896), 348-49.
                         
                         because he is fighting for the masses
                         as against the fast-growing power of centralized capital . .."40 Elliott received so many complaints that he
                         eventually begged his readers: "Don't continue to swamp
                         us with type-written copies made from newspaper reports of Mr.
                         Bryan's speeches. We have all those, and read them carefully, too.
                         During the last ten days we have received sixty-eight articles of the usual
                         stereotyped sort."41
                    When all was said and done, however, Democrats did a relatively poor job of
                         winning cyclists over to their side. Bryan's sober, evangelical
                         image clashed with the lighthearted, carefree spirit of the bicycle boom.
                         In 
                              Lincoln
                         , 
                              Nebraska
                         , a party of wheelmen turned out one evening in July for a
                         Bryan parade, but this was hardly surprising - 
                              Lincoln
                          was Bryan's hometown.42 When he
                         spoke in upstate 
                              New
                                   York
                          in August, a few men rode from Hudson just to shake his hand,
                         but he certainly did not receive from cyclists anything close to the level
                         of support McKinley received.43 Although neither the
                         Republicans nor the Democrats made any mention of the Good Roads Movement
                         in their official 1896 party platforms, the Republican platform, with its
                         focus on economic recovery through protective tariffs and strategies for
                         stimulating industry, including road improvements, must have seemed in line
                         with the goals of cyclists and bicycle manufacturers. The Democratic
                         platform, on the other hand, could offer no plan for prosperity other than
                         tinkering with the currency; moreover, rather than acknowledging the Good
                         Roads Movement, the platform called attention to the need for improving the
                              Mississippi
                              River and other waterways "so as to secure for the
                         interior States easy and cheap transportation to tide-water" - a
                         statement which, to cyclists at least, must have made Bryan seem even
                         further behind the times than he was.
                    There were a handful of Bryan and Sewall wheelmen's clubs, but
                         rather than organizing more of these, Democrats often preferred to use the
                         bicycle to make fun of their opponents.44 Songwriter
                         Samuel H. Speck wrote a two-step called "An Easy Mark"
                         for H. A. Du Souchet's musical farce comedy of the same name. The
                         cover of the sheet music 
                              40"A Human Man," L.A.W Bulletin and Good Roads, 24 (October 2,
                                   1896), 468.
                              41"Too Complicated," L.A.W Bulletin and Good Roads, 24 (October 9,
                                   1896), 494.
                              42"City in Brief," Lincoln Evening News, July 16, 1896, p.
                                   5.
                              43"Prayer is Offered for Mr.
                                   Bryan," Chicago Daily Tribune, August
                                   24, 1896, p. 2.
                              44See, for example, "Wheels to be
                                   Forsaken," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                                   September 11, 1896, p. 10.
                         
                         
                         
                              "An Easy Mark Two Step," by Samuel
                                   H. Speck, c. 1896 The caricature of Republican chairman Mark
                                   Hanna on this sheet music cover reflected the satirical
                                   possibilities of the bicycling craze. Courtesy of the
                                   author
                         
                         shows a ludicrously attired and
                         wild-eyed Hanna about to ride a bicycle over a handful of tacks in the
                         road. Of course, the mockery could run both ways. In September, the Terre Haute Express carried a cartoon of Bryan riding an
                         old-fashioned bicycle known as a high-wheel or "penny
                         farthing" (the small rear wheel recalling the tiny British coin of
                         the same name). The cartoonist has taken advantage of the
                         nickname's reference to money as well as the strange proportions
                         of the wheels to ridicule the Silverites' campaign slogan
                         "16 to 1." Bryan's huge front wheel is an
                         inflated sixteen-ounce silver dollar, while a tiny one-ounce gold dollar
                         trails behind. Uncle Sam, leaning against a signpost pointing the way from 
                              Nebraska
                          to 
                              Washington D.C.
                         , quips: "You will never get there, my boy, on that
                              machine."45 A similar cartoon, unusual in
                         that it appears in the generally pro-Bryan St. Louis
                              Post-Dispatch, shows a cyclist seeing stars after being thrown
                         from his bike. The legend, "Sixteen (stars) to one
                         (fall)!," is subtitled "An Office Boy's Joke on
                         the Silver Men."46 The same newspaper also
                         carried a cartoon of a distressed secretary of the treasury, John G.
                         Carlisle of 
                              Kentucky
                         . A Democrat, Carlisle nevertheless opposed Bryan and the
                         Silverites to such an extent that he joined the National Democratic Party,
                         a short-lived third party whose members were known as Gold Democrats
                         because of their staunch opposition to free-coinage. The cartoon shows
                         Carlisle riding a bicycle with one gold and one silver wheel along a rocky
                         road in 
                              Kentucky
                         ; the tire of the silver wheel, however, has sprung a leak,
                         suggesting that its rider will only be able to reach his destination if he
                         supports bimetallism.47
                    The situation is perhaps best summed up by two campaign pins that have
                         survived from the epic "battle of the standards." Both
                         sport a handsome bicycle and the motto "For Good Roads,"
                         and were it not for the fact that McKinley's face appears on one
                         and Bryan's on the other, the pins would be identical. These
                         remind us that no matter how many wheelmen supported McKinley in 1896, the
                         Democrats still believed that cyclists could be persuaded to cross party
                         lines. Indeed, only one 
                              45Untitled cartoon, Terre Haute
                                        Express, September 11, 1896, p. 5. Penny farthings were
                                   notoriously dangerous; many riders were seriously injured or even
                                   killed after hitting something in the road and being thrown over
                                   the front wheel. The national economy, the cartoon suggests,
                                   could be just as easily wrecked.
                              46"Sixteen (stars) to one
                                   (fall)!," St. Louis Post-Dispatch,
                                   October 8, 1896, p. 3.
                              47"Those 
                                        Kentucky
                                    Roads Give Him a 'Bicycle'
                                   Face," St. Louis Post-Dispatch, June
                                   4, 1896, p. 1.
                         
                         
                         
                              A political cartoon depicting Secretary of the
                                   Treasury John Carlisle coming to grief over the issue of silver
                                   vs. gold coinage The bicycle image was widely used to argue
                                   important issues of the day, including William Jennings
                                   Bryan's campaign promise of a bimetallic money standard.
                                        St. Louis Post-Dispatch, June 4,
                                   1896
                          year later, cyclists enthusiastically supported two Democratic
                         candidates and turned their backs on the Republican party. The bicycle bloc
                         was always up for grabs, and whoever managed to win its support was likely
                         to come out ahead in the end.
                    The bond between elected officials and the "brotherhood of the
                         wheel" was well enough known in the 1890s that when two American
                         cyclists attempting to ride around the world in 1897 crossed paths in 
                              Benares
                         , 
                              India
                         , with three British cyclists set on doing the same, one of the
                         Americans informed the trio "how cordial he would find our
                         cyclists, mayors, governors, and even
                         the president" upon reaching the 
                              United States
                         .48 One of these mayors would undoubtedly
                         have been Carter H. Harrison Jr. of 
                              Chicago
                         , who profited like no other from the popularity of the
                         bicycle, which he used as a campaign gimmick in the mayoral election of
                         1897. In his autobiography, Harrison reports that one of his opponents,
                         John Harlan, had been drawing on his background as a Princeton football
                         guard to his advantage with 
                              Chicago's
                          younger voters as the election was gearing up. "He
                         became known as the 'center-rush' candidate,"
                         Harrison recalled. "It irked me to be losing ground with the young
                         crowd who flocked to the Harlan meetings adopting him as their
                         own." Harrison himself was hardly an old man at thirty-six, but
                         one day his younger brother Preston returned from a one-hundred-mile
                         bicycle ride (a "century") and commented that the
                         "elderly" Harrison would probably have found it too
                         difficult. "His pitying condolence made me secretly mad. I held my
                         peace, but the next day I was out at an early hour, telling my wife I would
                         be away on business until evening. I had in mind an attempt at 'a
                         century.'" Harrison succeeded, riding 103 miles to 
                              Waukegan
                          and back in nine and a half hours, and before the season was
                         out, he claimed to have completed eighteen more centuries. "I now
                         had a brilliant thought: why not utilize my cycling record as an offset to
                         the Harlan football boasting?" His brothers-in-law, Heaton and
                         Harry Owsley, happened to own a bicycle manufacturing company in 
                              Chicago
                         . Shortly after the nominations I had
                              the Owsley brothers send a brand-new wheel with scorcher handlebars of
                              the "scorchiest" type to the Morrison photograph
                              gallery in West Madison Street .... I then betook myself to the
                              gallery with my riding togs to be photographed head-on, body bent
                              double over the scorcher bars, an attitude that always gave a fiendish
                              expression even to the mildest of faces! What with the rakish cap, the
                              old gray sweater and the string of eighteen pendant bars, I looked
                              like a professional, a picture which I knew would carry weight with
                              the vast army of 
                                   Chicago
                               wheelmen. . . . Lithographs were got out in a jiffy;
                              buttons to be pinned to coat lapels followed suit; it was a
                              good-looking kid that faced the world from lithograph and button, if I
                              do say so myself! And the inscription was an inspiration!
                              "Not the Champion Cyclist but the Cyclists'
                              Champion." 
                         
                              48H. Darwin McIlrath, Around
                                        the World on Wheels for the Daily Inter Ocean: The Travels
                                        and Adventures in Foreign Lands of Mr and Mrs. H. Darwin
                                        McIlrath (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1898), 91. The British cyclists were John Foster
                                   Fraser, S. Edward Lunn, and E H. Lowe. The McIlraths thought they
                                   were pompous and condescending, and although they later crossed
                                   the 
                                        United
                                             States
                                   , passing through 
                                        Chicago
                                    and 
                                        Indiana
                                   , their response to Mr. McIlrath's comment
                                   on the cordiality of American cyclists and politicians was:
                                   "We shall not bother about Americans much; after being
                                   entertained by the Shah of 
                                        Persia
                                   , we have decided to let your American dignitaries
                                   alone."
                         
                          The buttons and posters popped up
                         everywhere. "I was billed far and wide like a circus, to the joy
                         of my followers and the deep chagrin of the Harlan camp," Harrison
                         remembered. As the election approached, so did the spring cycling season;
                         the football season, to Harlan's dismay, was coming to an end.
                         "Great were the wheelmen and Harrison was their prophet. The
                         Cyclists' Champion had the center-rush candidate backed off the
                              board!"49
                    Shortly before the election, however, Harrison, through no fault of his own,
                         had come close to losing cyclists' support when the Democratic
                         legislature in 
                              Springfield
                         , under pressure from the railroads, threatened to defeat the
                         resurrected bicycle baggage bill. If passed, the law would force railroads
                         to carry bicycles free as luggage - something which cyclists in many other
                         states had been lobbying for for some time and which railroads had been
                         fighting against. A circular signed by several prominent wheelmen endorsing
                         Harrison was sent around in the first week of April in an attempt to secure
                         the votes of 
                              Chicago's
                          cyclists and, presumably, to counteract what was, for
                         Harrison, a poorly-timed blunder on the part of the state legislature.
                         Republicans quickly issued a circular of their own, pointing out that
                         "it would not be consistent ... for wheelmen as an organized body
                         to support any party that has openly arrayed itself on the side of the
                         railroad corporations for defeating the wheelmen in securing the same law
                         in 
                              Illinois
                          that has already been passed in eight other States."
                         Party officials suggested that "it would be most
                         expedient" for 
                              Chicago's
                          cyclists to support the Republican candidate for mayor; it was
                         the GOP, after all, which had come out in support of the bicycle baggage
                         bill, not the Democrats.50 A slightly mocking article
                         in the Chicago Daily Tribune, one week earlier, had
                         suggested that if 
                              49Carter H. Harrison, Stormy
                                        Years: The Autobiography of Carter H. Harrison, Five Times
                                        Mayor of 
                                             Chicago
                                         (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1935), 103-106.
                              50"Cyclists Lean to
                                   Sears," Chicago Daily Tribune, April
                                   3, 1897, p. 7.
                         
                         Republicans sided with the wheelmen by
                         supporting the baggage bill, "all that McKinley cycling vote
                         [could] be thrown to the Republican city ticket. There are clubs in every
                         ward that can be set in motion in twenty-four hours."51
                    The cycling vote, however, was not thrown to the
                         Republicans in 
                              Chicago
                          in 1897, as might have been expected based on the support the
                         city's cyclists showed for McKinley the previous year. Harrison
                         won the election, and when he stood for re-election two years later, he
                         still had many of 
                              Chicago's
                          cyclists on his side. Pronouncing himself a "friend
                         of the boys who wear knickerbockers," Harrison sent out letters to
                         individual wheelmen in March 1899 listing his accomplishments as mayor: new
                         cycle paths, better roads, more paved roads, smoother rail crossings, the
                         passing of ordinances requiring lights to be carried on all vehicles, and
                         so on. "We therefore ask your hearty cooperation in his
                         reelection, regardless of what your party affiliations may be, and we trust
                         you will actively exert your influence in his behalf." The letter
                         ends with an invitation to drop by "Cyclists'
                         Headquarters, Non-Partisan."52
                    When it came to seeking the support of the bicycle bloc, Mayor Thomas Taggart
                         of 
                              Indianapolis
                          was more subtle than his 
                              Chicago
                          counterpart, but he, too, benefited from a tacit arrangement
                         with the wheelmen of his city. In the summer of 1897, Taggart was nearing
                         the end of his first term. Like Carter Harrison, Taggart was a sound-money
                         Democrat who had crossed party lines in 1896 and supported McKinley and the
                         gold standard. Taggart began making appointments to a revitalized city park
                         board shortly after his election. Early in 1897, the park commissioners
                         allocated more than half-a-million dollars for the acquisition of land
                         along the White River
                         and various other properties throughout the city. Road improvements,
                         something that delighted the wheelmen of 
                              Indianapolis
                         , were also on Taggart's agenda. Under his
                         administration, the city's paved streets grew from 26 to 43 miles,
                         brick streets from 15 to 25, and creosoted wood streets from 1.6 to more
                         than 15; the mileage of cement sidewalks increased fivefold. In all, more
                         than four million dollars were spent on public works during his six years
                         in 
                              51"Cycle for Sears for the
                                   Race," Chicago Daily Tribune, March
                                   27, 1897, p. 3.
                              52"Committee of One
                                   Hundred" to "Dear Sir," March 25,
                                   1899, box 12, folder 633, Papers of Carter H. Harrison Jr.
                         
                         office. "The Taggart
                         administration," his biographer has written, "laid plans
                         to make 
                              Indianapolis
                          the 'park city' of the
                              continent."53
                    In the summer of 1897, a unique opportunity presented itself to Taggart, one
                         that offered him the chance to show off the great strides 
                              Indianapolis
                          was taking under his administration, gain support for further
                         improvements, and perhaps get himself re-elected in October as well. The
                         League of American Wheelmen had held their annual convention in 
                              Louisville
                          the previous summer, drawing about 30,000 cyclists from across
                         the country. The 1897 meet had already been set for 
                              Philadelphia
                         , but 
                              Indianapolis
                          had been put forward as a possible host for the following
                         year. Taggart was determined to secure the 1898 LAW meet for his city. At
                         the beginning of August 1897, he traveled with the 
                              Indiana
                          delegation of wheelmen to the 
                              Philadelphia
                          convention. Having already made a name for himself as the
                         proprietor of some of the best hotels in 
                              Indianapolis
                         , Taggart set himself up in 
                              Philadelphia's
                          Hotel Walton and began "doing some royal
                         entertaining." Although many Hoosier wheelmen were "out
                         hustling like beavers for additional support," Taggart was
                         "chief among the 
                              Indianapolis
                          boomers."54 The
                         delegation's headquarters at the Walton were a "suite of
                         handsome parlors which are filled with the story of 
                              Indianapolis
                         . The parlors are decorated with streamers, pictures of the
                         city and cycle path, [and] the parks and principal buildings."55 "We have the best of everything,"
                         Taggart told reporters. "Our competitors can not offer anything to
                         speak of to attract wheelmen, while 
                              Indianapolis
                          has everything. The wheel-riders of 
                              Philadelphia's
                          and other large cities will be delighted with the streets of 
                              Indianapolis
                         . It will be worth the trip to enjoy a ride over the streets
                         where a century run can be made without leaving asphalt and without
                         covering the same territory twice."56
                         
                              Indianapolis
                          competed with 
                              Omaha
                          for the 1898 meet, echoing the previous year's battle
                         for the White House, and just as Bryan had been unpopular with many
                         American newspapers, his fellow Nebraskans likewise failed in their attempt
                         to enlist the press's support for 
                              Omaha
                         . Taggart, on the other hand, hit it off 
                              53James Philip Fadely, Thomas
                                        Taggart: Public Servant, Political Boss, 1856-1929 (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1997), 34-38, 43-44.
                              54Untitled clipping, The
                                        Bicycling World, August 6, 1897, p. 6, from Zig Zag
                                   Cycling Club Mss., 1895-1897, Manuscripts Division, Indiana State
                                   Library, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   .
                              55"
                                        Indianapolis
                                    in Favor," Indianapolis
                                        News, August 5, 1897, p. 1.
                              56" 'Tom' Taggart
                                   Very Busy," Indianapolis News, August
                                   5, 1897, p. 1.
                         
                          with 
                              Philadelphia's
                          newspapermen almost from the start. He threw them a banquet
                         one evening that lasted into the small hours of the morning, and they voted
                         him "to be one of the best fellows in the world."57 "Hoosiers are A-Hustling," one of
                         their headlines declared. Taggart and his men "have struck this
                         town like a cyclone does a windmill, and if you want to know why 
                              Indianapolis
                          should have that meet, or why 
                              Indianapolis
                          is the greatest town that ever came down the pike, or in fact,
                         any old thing, simply glide up to parlor D, at the Walton ... 'Let
                         the thirsty have their fill' is the motto that pervades the
                         atmosphere at the delegation's headquarters, and no man goes away
                         with a desire left within him."58 In addition
                         to the press banquet, Taggart also held an all-night
                         "smoker" for anyone who cared to drop in. 
                              Philadelphia's
                          mayor gave Taggart the keys to the city and remarked that
                         "within the week the name of Thomas Taggart was better known in 
                              Philadelphia
                          than his own."59 "I
                         never met so many people together in all my life," an exhausted
                         Taggart commented upon his return to 
                              Indianapolis
                         .60 The hard work paid off. 
                              Indianapolis
                          got the 1898 LAW meet, and shortly after his return from 
                              Philadelphia
                         , Taggart, "the good-roads mayor" and
                         "the bicycle mayor," was re-elected. He served as
                         president of the meet's executive committee, and his smiling face
                         appears in the official guidebook, along with a list of the city's
                              parks.61
                    In spite of its ability to make candidates more visible and mobile, the
                         automobile has, according to historian Michael McGerr, decreased rather than increased political
                         involvement at the grassroots level.62 McGerr also
                         comments that in the twentieth century, a tidal wave of new and novel forms
                         of entertainment such as movies, radio, and automobiles "diffused
                         the enchantments of leisure and consumption" and consequently
                         "helped to overshadow politics as an entertainment" by
                              
                              57"Banquet to Newspaper
                                   Men," Indianapolis News, August 10,
                                   1897, p. 12.
                              58"Hoosiers are
                                   A-Hustling," Philadelphia Inquirer,
                                   reprinted in Indianapolis News, August 5, 1897,
                                   p. 1.
                              59"Entertained the Press,"
                                        Indianapolis News, August 6, 1897, p.
                                   1.
                              60"Mayor Taggart's
                                   Return," Indianapolis News, August 9,
                                   1897, p. 9.
                              61League of American Wheelmen, Official Information Book for the Annual Meet ([
                                        Indianapolis
                                   ?], 1898), 1, 15-16, 48.
                              62McGerr, Decline of Popular
                                        Politics, 182.
                         
                          competing with it for the American
                         consumer's attention. At the same time, new technologies softened
                         the boundaries of local communities. "The radio, the railroad, and
                         the automobile did more to weaken the experience of community than to
                         strengthen it." When once-distant places were suddenly only a few
                         hours' drive away - when with a flick of the wrist one could tap
                         into the radio waves and hear what was going on halfway across the country
                         - Americans became more aware of a national community.63
                    If these things were true of the automobile in the early decades of the
                         twentieth century, they were less true of the bicycle at the end of the
                         nineteenth. Although the national craze for cycling undoubtedly distracted
                         many Americans from important developments in politics and society - just
                         as the bicycle's critics argued that it distracted wives from
                         their domestic responsibilities, men from their duty to God and family,
                         society from more proper literary pursuits - it clearly also helped others
                         find their political voice. The real importance of the history of the
                         "winged wheel" in American politics lies in the fact
                         that, as the turn of the twentieth century approached, the bicycle still
                         represented the nineteenth-century world of close-knit communities, mass
                         spectacle, and educational politics, but also looked forward to the new
                         world that was to come: a world of nationally advertised politics in which
                         political parties adopted corporate advertising strategies. This duality
                         raises some interesting questions. First, assuming that technology played a
                         leading role in the decline of popular politics in the early 1900s, at what
                         point had enough gadgets and new opportunities for amusement appeared that
                         we can safely say that politics as entertainment had finally taken a back
                         seat to the "enchantments of leisure and consumption"?
                         The story of the bicycle in the 1890s suggests that these twin enchantments
                         do not necessarily oppose - and may even foster - intelligent political
                         involvement. Given that complexity, we might also ask if it was a
                         particular quality, rather than quantity, of technology -
                         such as the ability to attain higher speeds and travel greater distances on
                         one's own than ever before - that finally pushed society into new
                         territory? What happened as those speeds and distances gradually increased?
                         The bicycle, like the automobile a generation later, was a fashionable new
                         technology that offered almost unparalleled opportunities for entertainment
                         and 
                              63Ibid., 182-83.
                         
                         personal freedom. On a bicycle, as in
                         an automobile, anyone could escape from the pressures of industrial society
                         into nature, even if just for a few hours. And yet the bicycle did not
                         necessarily diminish Americans' sense of community, their sense of
                         their own political worth, or, more importantly, their overall interest in
                         politics, as the automobile allegedly has done. Was this because the speed
                         and comfort of bicycle travel never reached those of the automobile? Both
                         cyclists and motorists indulged in escapism, but because of the
                         bicycle's design and its demands on the human body, it was hard
                         for cyclists to stay away from home for long periods of time; the shelter
                         provided by the automobile, on the other hand, meant that it could be, if
                         necessary, a home away from home. Although cyclists did occasionally travel
                         long distances, cycling remained primarily a community-based, social
                         activity, and only with the coming of the automobile did a significant
                         number of Americans finally attain the ability to journey to faraway places
                         easily and in relative privacy. Cyclists' ties to the Good Roads
                         movement, moreover, are also evidence that local issues, rather than the
                         lure of distant horizons, were foremost in their minds.
                    The story of bicycling and politics in the 1890s offers a glimpse of a world
                         in which grassroots political involvement and intelligent activism were
                         combined with and even spurred on by fashionable consumption and a
                         technology of leisure. In light of the vast amount of new technology being
                         produced and marketed in the 
                              United States
                          today, as well as periodic declines in political involvement
                         on the part of voters in general and particularly of young voters, whether
                         that world can ever be created again is perhaps a question worth
                         asking.
               
               
               
                    Pushing the Color Line: Race and Employment in 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , 1933-1963
                    PEGGY SEIGEL
                    For black Americans seeking a place in the urban Midwest economy, the thirty
                         years leading up to the August 1963 March on 
                              Washington
                          were decades of hard-won gains amidst systemic discrimination.
                         Black citizens suffered disproportional poverty and unemployment during the
                         worst years of the Depression. In the defense factories that sprang up to
                         meet World War II demands, they found new opportunities and hope. For the
                         first time, several major industries hired blacks for skilled jobs at good
                         wages, and federal regulations established anti-discrimination policies.
                         African Americans were to learn, however, that regulations did not
                         eliminate the color bar that confined them to the lowest paying and least
                         secure jobs. Despite some wartime gains, black citizens in the postwar
                         years once again found themselves in segregated workplaces,
                         disproportionately trapped on the bottom rungs of the economic ladder.
                    Black workers in 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                          shared these common experiences, but they also faced
                         additional barriers influenced by their city's particular 
                              Peggy Seigel's most recent article "Winning
                                   the Vote in 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   : The Long Cautious Journey in a German-American
                                   City" appeared in the September 2006 IMH. She wishes to thank the editor of the IMH and an
                                   anonymous editor for comments on an earlier version of this
                                   work.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (September 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University.
                         
                         mix of politics, labor traditions, and
                         economic pressures. Earlier studies have established the traditions,
                         championed by the Fort Wayne Chamber of Commerce in the 1920s and continued
                         for decades by white trade union locals, that limited black
                         workers' access to industrial jobs. Researchers have described as
                         well a black population so weakened by complacency and financial depression
                         that by 1963 it had become "a kind of social drag on the
                         community." This study will build upon these earlier analyses by
                         looking more closely at patterns of discrimination and protest beginning in
                         the New Deal years and continuing until the national March on 
                              Washington
                          in the late summer of 1963. I will examine how leaders of the
                         Phyllis Wheatley Social Center/Fort Wayne Urban League worked to open new
                         employment opportunities for black workers during World War II, and how
                         liberal paternalism contributed to the loss of these gains in the 1950s and
                         early 1960s. Finally, I will look at the increasingly activist stance of
                         the local NAACP through the mid-1950s and early 1960s. In combination with
                         new anti-discrimination legislation and the burgeoning civil rights
                         movement, local efforts broke through 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne's
                          legacy of discrimination to create new employment
                         opportunities for the city's black workers. Such an investigation
                         will add to our understanding of the complex racial dynamics that slowly
                         built a national civil rights movement. At the same time, a closer study
                         will uncover patterns that contributed to long-term demoralization and
                         economic stagnation for black citizens in urban centers such as 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         .1
                    
                    
                         THE NEW DEAL YEARS: 1933-1941
                         Since its founding in 1920, the Phyllis Wheatley Social Center had
                              served as the recreational and social hub of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               African American community. Originally funded by the
                              National Recreation Association, the Wheatley Center affiliated with
                              the Fort Wayne Community Chest in 1925. An interracial board of
                              religious leaders and social workers provided oversight, while a small
                              paid staff directed an array of popular social and civic clubs for
                              children and adults, as well as athletic leagues for youth. As the
                              Depression set in, the Wheatley 
                                   1Iwan W. Morgan, "Latecomers
                                        to the Industrial City: African Americans, Jobs, and Housing
                                        in 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        , 1940-1960," Indiana
                                             Magazine of History, 95 (March 1999), 31-57. Fort
                                        Wayne Urban League, R. Sommerfeld Associates, "The
                                        Report of a Study of the Socio-Economic Circumstances of
                                        Negroes in 
                                             Fort
                                                  Wayne's
                                        ," (1964), Fort Wayne Urban League
                                        Archives (henceforth FWUL Archives); Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, June 16, 18, 20, 1964.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Fort Wayne Urban League Headquarters The
                                        Wheatley Social Center/Fort Wayne Urban League offered job
                                        training and advocated for equal employment opportunities
                                        for black citizens. Courtesy Fort Wayne Urban League
                                        Archives
                               Center's board of directors invited the director of
                              research for the National Urban League to survey the needs of the
                              city's black population. The immediate result was that in
                              1930 the Wheatley Center affiliated with the National Urban League.
                              While researchers have been reluctant to link Wheatley Center programs
                              with better defined national Urban League programs, the center
                              nevertheless began to address more intentionally economic and social
                              service problems heightened by the economic crisis.2
                         
                         
                              2J. Harvey Kerns, "A Study of
                                   Social and Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   ," 1949 (Allen County Public Library, 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , henceforth ACPL), 74.
                         
                         
                         Among the Wheatley Center's primary challenges was the
                              city's rising problem of homelessness and hunger. In 1932,
                              using local funding provided by Federated Relief Agencies, the center
                              established an annex, separate from its 421 Douglass Avenue address,
                              at 503 East Breckenridge Street to provide shelter and meals for needy
                              African American men. The annex accommodated as many as forty men per
                              night; on the average the center provided seventy-five meals daily. By
                              1933 the Depression had created such a local emergency that even 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               independent political and corporate leaders welcomed the
                              coming of the New Deal. Local relief sources were threatened with
                              depletion. Over five thousand families in 
                                   Allen
                                        County
                               now looked to the federal government for some form of
                              aid. Consistent with national rates, one-third of the city's
                              African Americans - approximately 800 individuals - qualified for
                              federal relief.3
                         The vast majority of African Americans on federal relief received work
                              through the Works Progress Administration (WPA), mostly doing road
                              repair and building construction. A small number of young men were
                              assigned to the Civilian Conservation Corps. For 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               black citizens, New Deal programs provided means of
                              financial survival, even if meager and unreliable. At the same time,
                              their inclusion in a national program gave black citizens a new sense
                              of recognition and legitimacy. While they did not question the
                              Roosevelt administration's solid allegiance to segregation,
                              for the first time they felt that they had allies at the national
                              level in Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt's "Black
                              Cabinet" who would press for civil rights. New Deal programs
                              also gave the Wheatley Center new energy and purpose.4
                         WPA relief projects channeled through the Wheatley Center supported the
                              WPAs educational mission and promoted organization building. Adult
                              part-time teachers targeted children "born into
                              underprivileged homes" and adults with little formal
                              education by offering classes in prenatal care, adult literacy,
                              parenting, and home management 
                                   3Fort Wayne
                                             News-Sentinel, December 10, 1932, January 3, 1934;
                                        Iwan Morgan, "
                                             Fort Wayne
                                         and the Great Depression: The Early Years,
                                        1929-1933," Indiana Magazine of
                                             History, 80 (June 1984), 144; "
                                             Fort
                                                  Wayne's
                                         Negro Population" [1937?], Wheatley
                                        Center/Fort Wayne Urban League files, ACPL; John
                                        Brueggemann, "Racial Considerations and Social
                                        Policy in the 1930s," Social Science
                                             History, 26 (Spring 2002), 143.
                                   4Brueggemann, "Racial
                                        Considerations and Social Policy," 146; Blanche
                                        Wiesen Cook, Eleanor Roosevelt, Volume II: The
                                             Defining Years, 1933-1938 (
                                             New York
                                        , 1999), 153-76.
                              
                              Teachers also encouraged adults to
                              "develop interests to occupy their leisure time." On
                              any given day the center hummed with craft classes, music lessons, and
                              chorus and orchestra rehearsals. A WPA-funded coach trained boys to
                              compete in Golden Glove competitions. In the tough years of the
                              Depression, Wheatley Center programs became sources of community
                                   pride.5
                         At various times during the 1930s, the National Youth Administration
                              (NYA) funded twenty-five young people to work as recreational leaders
                              at the Wheatley Center. For black children growing up in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , youth programs at the center were a "life
                              saver." In April 1940, local NYA workers received special
                              invitations to hear Mary McLeod Bethune, director of minority affairs
                              for the NYA and the highest-ranking African American in
                              Roosevelt's administration, speak at a mass meeting at the
                              city's Mt. Olive Baptist Church.6
                         In contrast to white workers, however, black citizens in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were largely unaffected by New Deal policies that
                              promised to put more Americans back to work. A stark reminder of their
                              economic marginality was the city's 1933 Labor Day
                              celebration. The Fort Wayne Federation of Labor sponsored a massive
                              downtown parade accompanied by afternoon and evening festivities. With
                              New Deal programs promising economic recovery, union leaders
                              celebrated what they hoped would be the renewal of union power.
                              Although the public was invited to the picnic and games at the Elks
                              Country Club, segregation was the order of the day. According to a
                              short paragraph in the Journal-Gazette, black
                              citizens sponsored their own celebration at Booker T. Washington Park
                              on the city's west side. Festivities included a baseball game
                              between "a picked team" and the Fort Wayne
                                   Giants.7
                         The invisibility of black workers in the city's workforce can
                              also be explained, in part, by 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               small African American population. In 1930, approximately
                              2,300 black men, women, and children made up scarcely two percent of
                              the city's total population of 115,000. The absence of black
                              workers in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               industries had deeper roots, 
                                   5Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, February 9, 1936; Indianapolis Recorder, May 15, November 27,
                                        1937.
                                   6Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, March 30, 1940; Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, February 2, 1989. Dr. Bethune was
                                        in 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                         on the invitation of the city's oldest
                                        black women's club, Ultra Art. Indianapolis Recorder, April 6, 1940.
                                   7Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, September 1, 3, 4, 1933. 
                              
                              however. Unlike other midwestern
                              cities such as 
                                   Detroit
                              , 
                                   Gary
                              , and 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               had a tradition of not employing African Americans in its
                              developing industries. As Iwan W. Morgan points out, industries that
                              sprang up in the 1920s and early 1930s were drawn to the city by the
                              Chamber of Commerce's promotional campaign boasting of its
                              old-stock (German, British, and Irish) workforce as being more
                              "reliable, enterprising, and hardworking" than
                              recent immigrants and African Americans. A survey of the black
                              workforce in 1937 reported that of the fifteen manufacturers that
                              established factories in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               between 1925 and 1932, the International Harvester
                              Corporation's truck plant, which employed 125 African
                              Americans among its workforce of more than 4,000, stood out as the
                              single employer of black workers. Bass Foundry and the Pennsylvania
                              Railroad, older city employers, were the next largest employers with
                              45 and 15 black workers each. The majority of black men, if they were
                              fortunate enough to have a job, worked as "family servants,
                              day workers, common laborers" and at other miscellaneous low
                              paying, irregular work.8
                         Just as black men were excluded from manufacturing jobs, so too were
                              black women denied employment in the city's booming
                              electrical machinery, knit goods, and clothing factories, where
                              thousands of white women worked. Their race also excluded them from
                              clerical work, work as telephone or telegraph operators, and teaching,
                              nursing, and sales work - all jobs reserved for white women. More than
                              four-fifths of African American women, consistent with national
                              patterns, worked as servants, cooks, or cleaning ladies. A small
                              number found work as hairdressers, caterers, restaurant cooks, and
                              stenographers. U.S. Department of Labor statistics for 1930 show that
                              approximately 30 percent of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               women, both black and white, were employed, but there
                              similarities ended. On average, black women earned roughly one-third
                              of what white women were paid and less than one-fourth the pay of
                              white men. Most employed black women were in the 45-to-54 age group,
                              while white and foreign-born women most often were 25 and younger.
                              More 
                                   8Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                        Industrial City," 33; "Table 5. African
                                        American Population in 
                                             Indiana
                                        , 1850-1990" in Robert M. Taylor Jr.,
                                        Connie A. McBirney, eds. Peopling 
                                                  Indiana
                                             : The Ethnic Experience (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1996), 655; Emma Lou Thornbrough and Lana
                                        Ruegamer, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Blacks in the Twentieth Century (
                                             Bloomington
                                        , 
                                             Ind.
                                        , 2000), 34-46; Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, April 7, 1940; "
                                             Fort
                                                  Wayne's
                                         Negro Population."
                              
                              often than white women, African
                              American women also supported large families with small children,
                              often as an essential family wage earner.9
                         To help African Americans find work in an ever-tightening job market,
                              Wheatley Center's Executive Secretary Edgar J. Unthank, Girls
                              Work Secretary Elma E. Alsup and Boy's Work Secretary John
                              Ridley built relationships with local employers and counseled
                              individual job seekers. Such initiatives had some success: a report
                              for 1936-1937 indicates that during that year more than 200 men and
                              women were placed in new jobs. Not recorded, but nonetheless implied,
                              is that blacks were still relegated to jobs at the bottom of the
                              economic ladder. What was different is that blacks were becoming more
                              assertive in competing with white workers for scarce employment. In
                              addition, Wheatley Center's efforts reflect a new emphasis on
                              relationships to other black organizations and national leaders; black
                              citizens began to develop what historian Kevin Gaines describes as a
                              "collective consciousness and group solidarity."10
                         In March 1933, Wheatley Center's training program for female
                              domestic servants represented a new blend of traditional racial uplift
                              with working-class empowerment. With economic hardships at crisis
                              levels, some whites now displaced African Americans in the
                              lowest-paying jobs that had always been linked to race. To give black
                              women a competitive edge, the center offered a six-week course at
                              Central High School as part of its industrial training program. Taught
                              by two college professors and a high school teacher, the classes gave
                              women training in home economics and psychology. Demand was high - 75
                              women enrolled in the March 1933 class.11
                         
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               program was modeled after early twentieth-century social
                              settlement programs developed by Nannie Helen Burroughs at the
                              National Training School for Women and Girls in 
                                   Washington D.C.
                               If domestic servants took pride in their work, Burroughs
                              reasoned, they would reduce the social stigma attached to black
                              women's traditional 
                                   9
                                             Fort
                                                  Wayne's
                                         Negro Population"; Sieglinde Lemke,
                                        "Introduction" in Elizabeth Lindsay Davis,
                                             Lifting as They Climb (
                                             New York
                                        , 1996), xvii; Employed Women and
                                             Family Support (
                                             Washington
                                                  D.C.
                                        , 1939), 2, 3, 8, 14.
                                   10"Wheatley Social
                                        Center" in "Fort Wayne Community Chest
                                        Annual Meeting, 1937," FWUL Archives; Kevin Gaines,
                                        "AHR Forum: Rethinking Race and Class in
                                        African-American Struggles for Equality,
                                        1885-1941," American Historical
                                             Review, 102 (April 1997), 385.
                                   11Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, March 11, 18, April 3, 1933.
                              
                              labor. Closer to home, 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               social settlement house, Flanner House, considered the
                              training of black domestic servants to be one of its most important
                              functions. The Indiana Federation of Colored Women's
                              Clubs' state headquarters in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , with funding from the WPA, offered similar courses in
                              home management.12
                         In addition to training classes, the Wheatley Center sponsored a club
                              for working women that instilled in its members a spirit of
                              self-worth. Part of a network of YWCA-sponsored clubs across the
                              Midwest, the Industrial Women's Club served as an important
                              social outlet and kept members abreast of working conditions and labor
                              laws pertaining to African American women. A weekend institute in 1935
                              in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               drew women delegates from 
                                   Indiana
                              , 
                                   Ohio
                              , and 
                                   Lexington
                              , 
                                   Kentucky
                              , and included forums on "Household
                              Employment" and "Problems of Relief." One
                              of the featured speakers was A. Phillip Randolph, the national
                              president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and a promising
                              national civil rights leader. Commenting on a similar club sponsored
                              by the South Parkway Branch of the Chicago YWCA, the club's
                              sponsor, Thelma McWorter, emphasized her overall goal of teaching
                              women self-confidence: "We tried to teach the women to learn
                              to speak up for yourself."13
                         In December 1934, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               African American leaders called together representatives
                              from 
                                   Indiana
                               cities with significant black populations to form an
                              organization to promote economic progress for their race. Unthank,
                              Alsup, and Ridley represented the Wheatley Social Center. The new
                              Negro Economic Welfare Council of Indiana continued to meet over the
                              next year to share information pertaining to relief programs and
                              employment and to pressure Democratic Governor Paul V. McNutt to serve
                              as their advocate. Unthank and other state leaders met with McNutt on
                              at least two occasions, asserting a new public voice for 
                                   Indiana
                               African Americans. Their September 7, 1935, meeting
                              included Unthank, prominent 
                                   Indianapolis
                               attorney and civil rights leader 
                                   12Phyllis Palmer, Domesticity and Dirt: Housewives and Domestic Servants
                                             in the 
                                                  United States
                                             , 1920-1945 (
                                             Philadelphia
                                        , 1989), 98; Thornbrough, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Blacks in the Twentieth Century, 37-
                                        38; Indianapolis Recorder, October 16,
                                        1937.
                                   13Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, May 18, 1935. For a description of a 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                         conference, see "The Wheatley Center
                                        Bulletin Feb. 1935," FWUL Archives; Beth Tompkins
                                        Bates, "AHR Forum: A New Crowd Challenges the
                                        Agenda of the Old Guard in the NAACP, 1933-1941,"
                                             American Historical Review, 102
                                        (April 1997), 347.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Wheatley Center Executive Secretary Edgar
                                        Unthank, with boxer Joe Louis and Sam Stuart, 1934.
                                        Unthank was an influential member of the 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                         black community and one of the leaders of the
                                        fight for equality prior to and during World War II.
                                        Courtesy African / African American Historical Society, 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        
                               Freeman B. Ransom, Mrs. Grace Wilson Evans of 
                                   Terre
                                        Haute
                              , president of the Indiana Federation of Colored
                              Women's Clubs, and J. W. Geater, executive secretary of the
                              Anderson Urban League. According to the Indianapolis
                                   Recorder, the governor "manifested much interest in
                              the activities of the organization.14
                         Efforts to promote racial progress were soon channeled into a new
                              national organization, the National Negro Congress (NNC). In January
                              1936 militant NAACP attorney John P. Davis met with leading black
                              citizens in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               to establish an 
                                   Indiana
                               sponsoring committee for the emerging new organization.
                              The next month, Davis, along with fellow NAACP leader Ralph Bunche and
                              labor activist A. Philip Randolph, 
                                   14Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, December 22, 1934, September 7, 1935.
                                        Unthank served as executive secretary of the 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                         Wheatley Center from 1925 until 1942. He was a
                                        graduate of Lincoln College in 
                                             Chester
                                        , 
                                             Pennsylvania
                                        , and had been a social worker in 
                                             Shreveport
                                        , 
                                             Louisiana
                                        , and 
                                             Barberton
                                        , 
                                             Ohio
                                        , before coming to 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        . Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette,
                                        April 28, 1942.
                              
                              drew more than 5000 African
                              Americans to the NNC two-day organizing convention in 
                                   Chicago
                              . 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               delegates included Wheatley Center officials Unthank and
                              Alsup, as well as seven representatives of four center-sponsored
                              organizations: the City Federation of Colored Women's Clubs,
                              the Toujour Fidele Club, the Mothers Club, and the Men's
                              Civic League. Randolph's message was loud and clear: African
                              Americans could not rely on the New Deal and "white
                              sympathetic allies" for solutions to their problems. He
                              exhorted working-class blacks "to mobilize and rally
                              power" on the grassroots level by joining unions and
                              supporting black-owned businesses.15
                         Interest in the NNC continued. In April 1936, the
                              organization's Indiana Sponsoring Committee called a
                              statewide convention that brought together a cross-section of laborers
                              and professionals to further promote black civil rights. Speakers
                              included 
                                   Indianapolis
                               attorneys Henry J. Richardson Jr. and Ransom. In October
                              1937, Wheatley Center representatives attended the NNC's
                              second annual convention in 
                                   Philadelphia
                              . Echoing his earlier impassioned calls, President A.
                              Philip Randolph urged blacks to unite with white workers to combat the
                              unemployment that had "taken on the picture of
                                   permanency."16
                         As the center's executive secretary, Unthank maintained a
                              delicate balance between numerous, not necessarily compatible
                              positions. More militant black leaders, including leaders of the NNC,
                              looked to members of the black community for leadership and emphasized
                              collective action and protest politics. Other leaders, following the
                              more traditional approach, worked with alliances of liberal white
                              reformers and depended on funding largely from white philanthropy.
                              They feared that confrontation and public protest would weaken their
                              already tenuous position. Like Bethune, black leaders also pursued
                              strategies that were "subtle and manipulative." The
                              available records of this period suggest that Unthank sponsored
                              initiatives that he considered politically safe. In common with Urban
                              League directors such as John Dancy of 
                                   Detroit
                              , he avoided direct challenges to racism that might affect
                              his agency's 
                                   15Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, January 18, February 8, 15, 1936;
                                        Lawrence S. Wittner, "The National Negro Congress:
                                        A Reassessment," American
                                             Quarterly, 22 (Winter 1970), 885-86; Bates,
                                        "A New Crowd Challenges the Agenda of the Old
                                        Guard," 360.
                                   16Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, April 4, 1936, October 23, 1937.
                              
                              financial dependence upon the
                              Community Chest. At the same time, Unthank clearly promoted breaking
                              discrimination barriers.17
                         Unthank's role on the Fort Wayne Interracial Commission
                              illustrates the tightrope that he often walked. Beginning in 1934, the
                              commission sponsored annual forums held on or around Abraham
                              Lincoln's birthday to promote understanding and goodwill
                              between the races. As representative of the Wheatley Center, Unthank
                              worked with the Fort Wayne Ministerial Association, the YMCA, and
                              dozens of elite black and white leaders to organize programs that
                              spread out over a week. Thousands of local citizens, black and white,
                              packed auditoriums to hear outstanding national religious and civil
                              rights leaders, interracial choruses, and addresses by local clergy.
                              The forums emphasized interracial cooperation and understanding,
                              however, not the tough issues of discrimination and segregation.18
                         In 1936, for example, the forum highlighted Dr. Channing Tobias, senior
                              secretary for African American work for the national council of the
                              YMCA. His address, summarized on the first page of the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, reportedly assured his audience
                              that racial barriers in the 
                                   United
                                        States
                               were gradually breaking down. Specifically, Tobias found
                              "encouraging signs of interracial tolerance in the
                              north" because of greater opportunities enjoyed by black
                              athletes, artists, and performers. A similar story ran in the Indianapolis Recorder. In addition, a proclamation
                              from 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               Mayor Harry W. Baals, read at this same event, claimed
                              progress in race relations: "
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               is a community blessed with tolerance, amity,
                              understanding, and good will between races and creeds."19
                         While few people would have disagreed with the mayor's wishes
                              for understanding and goodwill, even fewer people were ready to drop
                              their society's color lines. In a study of social policy and
                              race during the 1930s, historian John Brueggemann comments that
                              although "most Americans were opposed to extreme
                              manifestations of fascism . . . few 
                                   17Joyce A. Hanson, Mary
                                             McLeod Bethune and Black Women's Political
                                             Activism (
                                             Columbia
                                        , 
                                             Mo.
                                        , 2003), 33; Dominic J. Capeci, Jr., Race Relations in Wartime 
                                                  Detroit
                                             : The Sojourner Truth Housing Controversy
                                             of 1942 (
                                             Philadelphia
                                        , 1984), 13-14.
                                   18Founded in 1924, the Interracial
                                        Commission sought to fulfill its mission by providing
                                        educational and cultural programs. Kerns, "A Study
                                        of Social and Economic Conditions," 67.
                                   19Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, January 26, 29, February 10, 11,
                                        12, 1936; Indianapolis Recorder, February
                                        15, 1936.
                              
                              felt urgent about the
                              possibilities of serious progressive social change." Such
                              seemed to be the case in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              .20
                         As unemployment dug more deeply into African American communities,
                              however, black leaders felt an increased sense of crisis. Fifty
                              percent of African Americans in 
                                   Gary
                               during the early 1930s were on full government relief. By
                              1940 unemployment in other Midwest cities was alarming as well. 
                                   Milwaukee
                               had an unemployment rate of 29.3 percent, a rate
                              considerably higher than those for 
                                   Detroit
                               (15.7 percent) and 
                                   Chicago
                               (19.3 percent). Higher still, although generally
                              underreported, were the unemployment rates of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               and 
                                   Indianapolis
                               African Americans. In 1940, 38 percent of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               black citizens were unemployed; in contrast, 11 percent
                              of the city's whites lacked work. The following year, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               black workers described as "employable"
                              made up 44 percent of all workers on public relief.21
                         For African Americans the buildup of the national defense program to
                              support 
                                   England's
                               war against Hitler offered the possibility of economic
                              recovery and a "rebirth of citizenship." Speaking at
                              the annual meeting of the Wheatley Social Center in December 1940,
                              Lester Granger, executive secretary of the National Urban League,
                              emphasized the unprecedented opportunities ahead. At the same time, he
                              urged black citizens to organize and to have courage. During the next
                              year, in an unprecedented show of unity, state and national civil
                              rights leaders threw their energy into effecting changes. Unthank,
                              too, found a new public voice.22
                         In early 1941, J. Chester Allen, attorney and state legislator from 
                                   St.
                                        Joseph County
                              , navigated a bill (H.B. 445) through the Indiana General
                              Assembly to prohibit discrimination against blacks in industries with
                              defense contracts. After a nearly unanimous victory in the House of
                              Representatives, the Indiana Chamber of Commerce spearheaded the
                              bill's defeat in the Senate. Allen and other black leaders,
                              including Senator R. L. Brokenburr of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , renewed their efforts on behalf of black workers. They
                              reached a series of compromises with the Indiana State Defense
                              Council, a group of politicians and Chamber of Commerce 
                                   20Brueggemann, "Racial
                                        Considerations and Social Policy," 140.
                                   21Andrew Edmund Kersten, Race, Jobs and the War: The FEPC in the Midwest,
                                             1941-1946 (
                                             Urbana
                                        , 
                                             Ill.
                                        , 2000), 62, 70, 65; Morgan,
                                        "Latecomers to the Industrial City,"
                                        34.
                                   22Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, December 13, 1940; Indianapolis Recorder, December 28, 1940.
                              
                              leaders. With Governor Henry E
                              Schricker's firm support, a committee of industrialists and
                              sixteen black leaders developed the Indiana Plan of Bi-Racial
                              Cooperation, which had two priorities: to win the war and to end
                              racial discrimination in defense industries. Unthank of the Wheatley
                              Center and I. H. Freeman of General Electric Corporation represented 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              . Biracial committees representing labor unions,
                              industries, and black interests were then established in twenty 
                                   Indiana
                               cities with sizable black populations, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               included. J. Chester Allen, as director of Negro Affairs
                              of the State Defense Council, was charged with overseeing grassroots
                                   efforts.23
                         During this same time, national black leaders demonstrated new
                              determination as well. Labor leader Randolph threatened to bring as
                              many as 100,000 black protestors to 
                                   Washington D.C.
                               on July 4, 1941, unless President Roosevelt set a new
                              national policy against job discrimination. In a concession to
                              Randolph and to all African Americans, Roosevelt issued Executive
                              Order 8802 that June, calling for employers and unions alike to treat
                              equally all workers in defense industries regardless of race, creed,
                              color, or national origin. As a means to pressure employers, Roosevelt
                              created the President's Committee on Fair Employment
                              Practices to investigate and monitor allegations of
                              discrimination.
                         In addition to finding hope in these new plans to lessen workplace
                              discrimination, some 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               citizens continued to find direction in the NNC. In July
                              1941, a 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               group calling itself simply the Fort Wayne Discussion
                              Group invited NNC field counselor Ishmael P. Flory to speak before a
                              forum at Turner Chapel AME church. James Nash, a young labor and
                              community leader, chaired the group. By now, the local council of the
                              NNC had reportedly "gained national recognition" for
                              "its splendid work" in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              . While details of this work have unfortunately been lost,
                              there is no doubt that the NNC was gaining local followers.24
                         
                              23Indianapolis Recorder,
                                   July 7, 1945.
                              24Ibid., July 12, 1941; (
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   ) Weekly Carrier August 2, 1941.
                                   The Weekly Carrier, which includes the
                                   reference to the local NNC, was published during the early 1940s
                                   by Robert L. Sullivan. A single complete copy is known to exist
                                   on microfilm in the Indiana State Library. 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    was one of 70 local councils of the NNC. Lawrence
                                   Wittner stresses the NNCs work to organize black workers in steel
                                   areas including 
                                        Gary
                                    and 
                                        Chicago
                                    in "The National Negro Congress: A
                                   Reassessment," 894-96. A "best guess"
                                   is that local NNC leaders worked to get black workers accepted in
                                   CIO unions. Born in 
                                        Humbolt
                                   , 
                                        Tennessee
                                   , James Nash (1911-1991) moved to 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    as a child. He graduated from Central High School
                                   and attended Purdue University, Fort Wayne Extension. About 1950
                                   Nash moved with his family to 
                                        Chicago
                                    where he worked for International Harvester. [James
                                   Nash] Memorial Service Program, November 6, 1991.
                         
                         
                         In the New Deal years, black leaders in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               formed organizations and networks to help working-class
                              citizens survive the economic crises of the Depression. They also
                              worked within interracial associations such as the Wheatley Center and
                              the Fort Wayne Interracial Commission that offered promises of better
                              interracial understanding. By the summer of 1941, black citizens had
                              reasons to believe that their efforts were beginning to show results.
                              Their economic plight was not only gaining the attention of state and
                              federal politicians; for the first time in their country's
                              history, government policies now forbade employment discrimination
                              based on race.
                    
                    
                         PUSHING FOR CHANGES: 1941-1946
                         Optimism seemed high as 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               Defense Committee - Unthank; Rev. William Guy, pastor of
                              Turner Chapel A.M.E. Church; Elma Alsup; and Fred D. Strong, local
                              labor leader and postal worker - began weekly meetings in June 1941.
                              Members of the Interracial Commission lent support as well. Occasional
                              guest speakers such as J. W. Geater, executive secretary of the
                              Anderson Urban League, led discussions on promoting industrial jobs in
                              local factories.25
                         The committee's efforts during the first months of 1941
                              resulted in the employment of black men for the first time at Wayne
                              Tank, S. E Bowser Company, Fruehauf Trailer, and General Electric.
                              Such successes were taken seriously by the black community; a note in
                              the community news section of the Indianapolis
                                   Recorder reported that the committee was "working
                              diligently in securing jobs for men and women." Equally
                              heartening was the Fort Wayne
                                   News-Sentinel's strong endorsement: "Until
                              Americans generally drop their anti-Negroism all over, our pious words
                              to other countries about the need for racial tolerance can only be
                              construed as self deception. The Negro deserves a better place in our
                              armed forces. He also deserves a better place in our
                              country's economic life." Praising the work of the
                              Negro Defense Council, the editor called 
                                   25Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, April 26, June 21, 1941.
                              
                               for "the generous and
                              cheerful co-operation of the entire community." Further
                              accounts of the success of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               Defense Committee are nevertheless mixed, incomplete, and
                              generally hidden from public eye.26
                         During the first three years of war, approximately 30,000 new
                              manufacturing jobs in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               and 
                                   Allen
                                        County
                               were created, expanding the workforce from 26,000 workers
                              in April 1940 to 56,000 in June 1943. To meet emergency demands, many
                              local companies hired black men, as well as women of both races, for
                              the first time. Thousands of additional workers migrated to 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               in pursuit of work. Between 1940 and 1944, the
                              city's black population more than doubled, reaching its
                              wartime peak of about 6000, although population increases did not
                              necessarily correlate with employment. Critical labor shortages arose
                              in the last months of 1943, extending throughout 1944 and into 1945,
                              and placing unprecedented pressure on the federal employment service.
                              In October 1943 alone, 3,888 war jobs were posted at the
                              city's federally directed employment center. Unemployed women
                              were targeted by a house-to-house canvas conducted by women already
                              employed in local factories.27
                         Among the 30,000 new jobs created were a small but significant number of
                              positions newly available to black workers. The Defense Committee,
                              working with the Wheatley Center staff, placed 871 African Americans
                              in jobs previously closed to them. What remains hidden in reports of
                              defense industry growth, however, are the patterns of discrimination
                              that continued to block black workers not only from job training
                              programs and job advancement but even from bottom-level employment. As
                              reported in an Urban League study at the end of the decade, continuing
                              discrimination was common: "It should be emphasized that even
                              during the war many of the local industries would not employ Negro
                              labor, defying even the insistence of the Fair Employment Practices
                                   Committee."28
                         Occasional public protests by local African Americans leaders reveal
                              their deep levels of frustration during the Defense
                              Committee's 
                                   26Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, June 21, August 23, 1941.
                                   27Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                        Industrial City," 34; Hugh M. Ayer,
                                        "Hoosier Labor in the Second World War,"
                                             Indiana Magazine of History, 59 (June
                                        1963), 100; Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette,
                                        October 14, 29, 1943.
                                   28John E. Ridley, "The
                                        Executive Says: 1943-1944 Report," FWUL Archives;
                                             Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, April 23,
                                        1944; Kerns, "A Study of Social and Economic
                                        Conditions," 22.
                              
                              first year. In a December 1941
                              letter published in the News-Sentinel, Perry Strum,
                              a graduate of Central High School with some college work, described
                              his experience of job hunting: "... I am told when I apply
                              for a job that I can only be a janitor or a shoe shine boy for a
                              salary too meager to live on. The majority of the time I am told,
                              'We don't need any help,' but the white man
                              in back of me who has never finished the eighth grade and cannot speak
                              English is welcomed with open arms." Two months later, James
                              Nash, president of the 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               council of the NNC, called for Americans to unite in
                              condemning a recent lynching in 
                                   Missouri
                               as an act of Hitlerism. Nash was equally emphatic in
                              challenging 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               to end job discrimination: "We must also show by
                              our example of filling jobs in defense industries and giving full
                              support to the civilian defense program what unity means to democracy
                              and the negro and white people in 
                                   America
                              ." In March 1943, Rev. William Guy, one of the
                              first committee appointees, reported that blatant unfair employment
                              practices in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               continued. Despite President Roosevelt's
                              executive order, not a single black employee worked in industries that
                              had recently received the government's prestigious E Award
                              for excellence in production. African Americans who were employed were
                              too often limited to custodial work. Such discrimination, Guy stated,
                              was "hindering the war effort in that it [was] subversive of
                              civilian morale." Not surprisingly, his comments were
                              published in the Indianapolis Recorder but omitted
                              from both of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               daily newspapers. Such candid remarks were the exception
                              in an otherwise general pattern of invisibility. Following early
                              notices, few public reports on the work of the Fort Wayne Defense
                              Committee and on employment of African Americans appeared, even in the
                                   Recorder.29
                         Unthank's illness and subsequent resignation from the Wheatley
                              Center in the spring of 1942 appear to have seriously impacted the
                              Defense Committee's work. In his absence, community
                              representatives earlier assigned to the committee no longer seemed to
                              be playing a role. Responsibilities now fell on Unthank's
                              successor, John E. Ridley, and on other center staff members to work
                              with potential employers and to 
                                   29Fort Wayne
                                             News-Sentinel, December 27, 1941; Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, February 16, 1942. In
                                        1943 James Nash worked at the Wayne Pump Company as a sand
                                        blaster. Polk City Directory (1943). On
                                        the NNC and its alleged relationship to the American
                                        Communist Party, see C. L. R. James, George Breitman, et
                                        al., Fighting Racism in World War II (
                                             New York
                                        , 1980), 20; Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, March 13, 1943.
                              
                              provide job counseling to new
                              workers. From its inception, however, the committee lacked crucial
                              representation: missing were local labor, business, civic, and
                              political leaders who could help change the resistance endemic in the
                              city's industrial culture.30
                         Public champions for fair employment practices were more often
                              religious, civil rights, and labor leaders brought to 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               as guest speakers for special forums. In February 1942,
                              when support for new policies of fair employment was most critical,
                              the Fort Wayne Interracial Forum's annual meeting featured
                              Dr. James G. Heller of 
                                   Cincinnati
                              , president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
                              Following the meeting, the Wheatley Center sponsored a patriotic rally
                              with "prominent negro leader" Col. Roscoe Simmons of 
                                   Chicago
                              . In October 1943, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               hosted the three-day annual convention of the 
                                   Indiana
                               CIO, featuring Dr. Adam Clayton Powell of 
                                   New York
                                        City
                               and 
                                   Detroit's
                               R. J. Thomas, president of the United Automobile Workers
                              of America. "Let us have the unity in our labor union that
                              Lincoln advocated for this nation," Powell urged the nearly
                              600 delegates in attendance. Thomas's plea for racial justice
                              was equally impassioned: "Victory won't be complete
                              until race discrimination is quelled." The
                              convention's resolutions included an uncompromising objection
                              to all forms of racial discrimination.31
                         Union leaders' public support for ending racial discrimination
                              nevertheless contrasted with widespread yet rarely identified
                              practices of segregation. Nowhere was this more evident than in
                              training programs for defense workers. Frequent reports in local
                              newspapers for 1942 and 1943 describe government programs at Central
                              High School, at the National Youth Administration Center at 1700 North
                              Calhoun Street, and at the Purdue University war training center. By
                              September 1943 companies were so desperate for welders that they
                              offered immediate on-the-job training. Still, black applicants were
                              not encouraged because of the expectation that employers would not
                              risk hiring them. The local United States Employment Service came
                              close to admitting this by 
                                   30Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, April 28, 1942. The contrast
                                        between the Fort Wayne Defense Committee and Metropolitan
                                        Detroit Council on Fair Employment Practices formed in
                                        January 1942 is particularly sharp. Andrew E. Kersten,
                                        "Jobs and Justice: 
                                             Detroit
                                        , Fair Employment, and Federal Activism during
                                        the Second World War," Michigan
                                             Historical Review, 25 (Spring 1999), 83-84.
                                   31Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, February 16, 1942, October 17,
                                        1943.
                              
                              revealing that "employer
                              specification as to physical qualifications" determined
                              assignment of workers. The War Production Training Center at Central
                              High School advertised "equal opportunity to all ... without
                              cost" but did not explicitly include African Americans in its
                              notices. In contrast, the National Youth Administration training
                              centers in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and 
                                   South
                                        Bend
                               became known for training young African Americans from
                              across 
                                   Indiana
                               for defense industries.32
                         Such discrimination conforms to studies that have found that most
                              government-financed training programs for war workers were segregated.
                              Instructors excluded African Americans using the rationale that white
                              workers would go on strike before working with blacks. Wheatley Center
                              records indicate that segregated training programs were expected: John
                              E. Ridley's 1943-1944 report, for example, stressed that the
                              center encouraged the black worker "to train
                              himself." Similarly, longtime civil rights leader and retired
                              FWUL staffer Jacqueline Patterson recalls that, public policy to the
                              contrary, most young black workers had to leave 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               for job training.33
                         On at least one occasion black citizens in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               demanded that fair employment practices be enforced. At
                              the local Studebaker Corporation that manufactured B-17 aircraft
                              engines, management and union leaders alike kept well hidden their
                              practice of hiring African Americans only as janitors and common
                              laborers. Once this violation of official United Auto Workers Union
                              policy came to light in June 1944, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               blacks filed "a chorus of complaints"
                              with state officials. As a result, management agreed to change its
                              practices. Unlike labor conflicts in other midwestern cities such as 
                                   Detroit
                              , 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , and 
                                   Toledo
                              , however, publicity surrounding this conflict was omitted
                              from local newspapers.34
                         
                              32Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, January 7, April 8, July 15, 22,
                                   September 13, November 7, December 15, 1942; January 3, 9, 14,
                                   17, March 19, 21, April 12, 13, May 31, September 3, 1943; Indianapolis Recorder, January 30, March 26,
                                   1943.
                              33Fred Stanton,
                                   "Introduction" in James et al., Fighting Racism, 17; Richard W. Thomas, Life For Us Is What We Make It: Building Black Community in 
                                             Detroit
                                        , 1915-1945 (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1992), 153; John E. Ridley, "Annual Report
                                   of the Wheatley Social Center 1943-1944," FWUL Archives;
                                   interview with Jacqueline Patterson, January 25, 2007.
                              34Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                   Industrial City," 36; Max Pavin Cavnes, The
                                        Hoosier Community at War (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1961), 120, 128; Kersten, "Jobs and
                                   Justice," 82, 91; Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, April 23, 1944.
                         
                         
                         Various theories suggest why African Americans in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               so often failed to protest employment discrimination. One
                              theory is that demand for workers allowed blacks to change jobs if
                              they objected to a company's work environment. Another
                              explanation is that 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               never experienced hate strikes such as those at the
                              Allison plant in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               in May 1943 or race riots such as those that took place
                              in 
                                   Detroit
                               later that summer that would have drawn the attention of
                              the overworked and understaffed state and federal officials charged
                              with investigating discrimination. 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               small black population might also have made the
                              city's black residents less likely to file complaints.35
                         Other explanations are more subtle. A 1943 survey by the Fort Wayne
                              Interracial Commission concluded that "
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               had a far more tolerant attitude on race questions than
                              most northern communities." Among its other findings, the
                              study showed general support for fair employment practices: only 19
                              percent of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               residents favored employment discrimination. The
                              following year, National Urban League investigator Julius A. Thomas
                              also drew favorable conclusions: 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               had "above the average" industrial
                              relations during peak wartime production in 1944. Such positive
                              findings masked the city's deeply entrenched traditions of
                              job segregation and discrimination; so, too, did the city's
                              tradition of addressing racial problems behind closed doors - public
                              protests were not part of the city's culture.36
                         Finally, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               African Americans simply lacked the essential support,
                              more common in larger cities, of local community organizations and
                              labor activists. Had the city been home to a local NAACP branch, for
                              example, NAACP executive secretary Walter White would have urged the
                              chapter members to demonstrate against industries that practiced job
                              discrimination. In contrast to 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               African Americans were supported by an NAACP branch, a
                              variety of civic clubs, and a strong local black newspaper. Community
                              support resulted in massive rallies, such as those in 1941 and 1942,
                              to monitor progress in defense industry spending.37
                         
                              35See Cavnes, Hoosier Community
                                        at War, 120-37, for a description of African American
                                   employment in various 
                                        Indiana
                                    cities during World War II. Kersten, "Jobs
                                   and Justice," 82-83, 91.
                              36Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, November 14, 1943; Indianapolis Recorder, June 24, 1944.
                              37Kersten, Race, Jobs and the
                                        War, 27; Indianapolis Recorder, March
                                   15, 1941, June 20, 1942.
                         
                         
                         
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               black citizens, even lacking such local organizations,
                              had a hand in bringing about a public relations bonanza in June 1944
                              that involved one of the nation's most famous black flying
                              aces, Captain Charles B. Hall. A native of 
                                   Brazil
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              , Hall was brought to the city for a massive war bond fund
                              drive by his family connections - his mother Anna Hall and his sister
                              Victoria Littlejohn lived in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               - to be honored alongside hometown hero and fighter pilot
                              Major Walker Mahurin. Hall's military medals included the
                              Distinguished Flying Cross and Air Medal with 12 oak leaves for over
                              100 missions during the past two years in 
                                   Italy
                              . Together with Mahurin, Hall appeared in a flurry of
                              events promoting war bond sales. He was a special guest at a Civilian
                              Defense meeting honoring area men and women serving in the armed
                              forces and was interviewed on local radio station WOWO. With his wife
                              and Rev. William Guy, Hall rode through the city streets as part of a
                              massive parade of soldiers, the Indiana State Guard, veterans, Boy
                              Scouts, police and fireman, the Fort Wayne Civilian Defense
                              organization, and representatives of the city's industrial
                              workforce. Following the parade, Hall was among those honored in front
                              of the courthouse. Afterwards, Hall greeted local African Americans at
                              Turner Chapel AME church at a meeting arranged by the local chapter of
                              Women's Army for National Defense (WANDS), a service
                              organization of African American women.38
                         During this great show of patriotism, the color line seemed to fade. In
                              many of the city's industrial workplaces, however, race still
                              limited opportunity. The Fort Wayne Industrial Union Council, composed
                              of CIO unions, rarely upheld anti-discriminatory practices supported
                              by the constitution of the national CIO. Local 57 of the UAW-CIO which
                              represented production workers at the Fort Wayne International
                              Harvester Company, for example, made little effort to educate union
                              members in race relationships and non-discrimination. Similarly,
                              bulletins issued by the national American Federation of Labor
                              condemning racial and religious persecution were largely ignored by 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               affiliates. As shown by a Fort Wayne Urban League study
                              following World War II, racial tension and conflict often lay just
                              under the surface. Members of the International Ladies Garment Workers
                              Local 116 at 
                                   38
                                        Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, June 7, 8, 9,
                                        1944; Indianapolis Recorder, June 24,
                                        1944. Hall's mother, Anna, worked at the Wayne Pump
                                        Company as a topper. Polk City Directory
                                        (1943).
                              
                              Pollack Brothers Incorporated
                              threatened management with a walkout strike when the first black
                              employee was hired at the end of the war.39
                         Despite continued discrimination, however, in the tight wartime labor
                              market, some local black workers found a higher standard of living
                              than they had ever known. Moreover, prodded by government policies,
                              several local factories enforced anti-discrimination practices, giving
                              black workers new skills and union support. Greater democracy, at
                              least for some, seemed in the making.
                         Wartime employment at 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               General Electric Works serves as the clearest example of
                              the weakening of the city's color and gender lines during
                              periods of full production. The company's local payroll
                              jumped from 6,200 employees in 1940 to peak production employment in
                              the summer of 1943 of 20,000. The percentage of women workers grew
                              from approximately 30, in late 1942, to 50 by the next summer. At the
                              Taylor Street Plant, where supercharger engines for military aircraft
                              were manufactured, women made up 58 percent of the 3000-member
                              workforce at peak production in 1944. While there are no statistics
                              showing the number of African Americans employed, evidence is clear
                              that General Electric hired blacks in significant numbers.40
                         Despite GE's national corporate pledge to follow fair
                              employment procedures, when production first increased in 1940,
                              personnel managers were reluctant to hire blacks. The first black
                              women were not hired until the summer of 1942, and then in begrudging
                              compliance to the government's order. I. H. Freeman, human
                              resources representative for General Electric, gave Wheatley Center a
                              few days' notice to recruit twenty women for work at the
                              Taylor Street Plant's lunch counter. Years later a Wheatley
                              Center employee remembered that Freeman was surprised when applicants
                              were found. "I knew deep in his heart he hoped we would fail
                              because of his racial prejudice. . . . But we went to the churches and
                              recruited the 20 women in time for work on Monday."
                              Discrimination was evidenced as well in the total exclusion of black
                              workers in notices and photographs of training programs in the 
                                   39Fort Wayne Urban League "A
                                        Survey of the Racial Policies of Organized Labor in 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        ," 1953, pp. 2, 8, 11, 22
                                        (ACPL).
                                   40Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, October 9, 1942, June 4, 1943;
                                        Clovis E. Linkous, General Electric At 
                                                  Fort Wayne
                                             , 
                                                  Indiana
                                             : A 110 Year History (
                                             Baltimore
                                        , 
                                             Md.
                                        , 1994), 326.
                              
                              Fort Wayne General
                                   Electric Works newsletter, confirming the general practice
                              of placing black workers in low-skilled jobs. Nevertheless, as wartime
                              emergencies increased and production stepped up, the company hired
                              more black workers and trained them to perform essential work.
                              According to a national Urban League investigator, in June 1944 at the
                              Taylor Street Plant alone, "nearly 300 colored women were
                              performing skilled operations on production and assembly lines and on
                              machines" manufacturing turbocharger fans for B24 bomber
                                   engines.41
                         African Americans also appear to have been accepted by coworkers and
                              supervisors. Local 901 of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine
                              Workers (UERMW) went on record in support of fair employment and
                              encouraged black employees to participate in union activities.
                              Nevertheless, color lines in social clubs followed segregation
                              patterns of the day. The most obvious example was the Elex Club, a
                              General Electric Works institution for women in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               that in 1942 had a membership of 2,700 female workers.
                              Between 1943 and 1945, African American women met separately as the
                              Carver Club at the Wheatley Center. Just like their white co-workers,
                              Carver Club members supported soldiers, enjoyed holiday parties, and
                              went on group excursions. The Carver Club also shared in common with
                              white coworkers their club advisor, Irene Meyers, sponsor of GE
                              women's programs. Integration appears to have been initiated
                              in 1946 with a policy announced in the August Fort Wayne
                                   Works News: "All Women Employees Invited to Join
                              Elex Club." Meyers, remembered fondly by African American
                              employees, was instrumental in facilitating positive relationships
                              among female workers. "She pushed to integrate. She was a
                              wonderful person," recalled a retired GE worker with forty
                              years experience.42
                         Local unions representing United Steel Workers of America also supported
                              anti-discrimination clauses in their contracts with management.
                              Following national union policies, workers at Joslyn Manufacturing
                              Company, members of Local 14 USW-CIO, prodded by 
                                   41(
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        ) Frost Illustrated, March
                                        25-31, 1987; Indianapolis Recorder June
                                        24, 1944; Karen Tucker Anderson, "Last Hired, First
                                        Fired: Black Women Workers during World War II,"
                                             Journal of American History, 69 (June
                                        1982), 88.
                                   42Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                        Industrial City," 41; Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, December 5, 1942, March 24, 1945;
                                             Fort Wayne Works News, January 28,
                                        1944, March 2, June 29, July 20, September 28, 1945; Aug.
                                        23, 1946 (frequent meeting notices for the Carver Club
                                        appear in the Works News from December 1943 to September
                                        1945); interview with Hana Stith and Jaqueline Patterson,
                                        May 2, 2006; telephone interview with Minnie Bryant, May 2,
                                        2006.
                              
                              management, began to accept black
                              workers on an equal basis during the war. Local 1808, representing
                              workers at Central Foundry Company, backed management's
                              policies of employing or upgrading Negro workers "to their
                              highest skill."43
                         The Indianapolis Recorder's special World War
                              II edition offers contrasting evaluations of wartime employment under 
                                   Indiana's
                               Plan for Bi-Racial Cooperation. J. Chester
                              Allen's report, dated December 1943, praises the
                              "voluntary cooperative effort of leaders of both racial
                              groups" for putting blacks to work and claims that the
                              program was a general success. Eight months after the program began,
                              the unemployment rate for 
                                   Indiana
                               blacks, which in early 1941 had been as high as 54
                              percent, had dipped to less than 20 percent. Thousands of African
                              American women found new positions in defense industries. "In
                              short you can find a Negro doing any job for which he is
                              qualified," Allen claimed. A 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               correspondent reached a more guarded conclusion. As the
                              war wound down, 1800 blacks were regularly employed in local
                              factories. For the first time African Americans belonged to trade
                              unions; James Nash, a member of the UERMW, served on the Fort Wayne
                              Labor Council. Aside from a few trained and skilled workers, however,
                              blacks were still predominantly trapped in unskilled jobs.44
                         A fuller assessment of black employment at the end of the war shows that
                              the city's black workers lacked the support of political
                              leaders, labor activists, and civil rights organizations. Deep racial
                              prejudices still blocked the vast majority of African Americans from
                              all but the most menial jobs in the city's industries and
                              other businesses. The small Wheatley Social Center staff, largely on
                              its own, had nevertheless built new alliances with some industrial
                              leaders. Hundreds of black workers, swept up in the unprecedented
                              demand for defense workers, had temporarily been hired into skilled
                              jobs with good paychecks; many of those in union positions had enjoyed
                              the support of national unions and those corporations with
                              non-discrimination policies. At the end of World War 
                                   43"A Survey of the Racial
                                        Policies of Organized Labor in 
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        ", 26-27.
                                   44The July 7, 1943, Indianapolis Recorder reports that black women
                                        held jobs at the General Electric Company, Bowser
                                        Corporation, Wayne Pump, and Inca Magnavox Corporation. By
                                        June 1944, black women worked alongside of white women as
                                        line inspectors at the Farnsworth Radio and Television
                                        Corporation. Cavnes, Hoosier Community at
                                             War, 128; Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                        Industrial City," 36. Marjorie Wickliffe worked in
                                        the personnel department of Magnavox Corporation.
                                        "Interview with Marjorie Wickliffe, October 10,
                                        1981," Allen County History Center Archives (
                                             Fort Wayne
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        ).
                              
                              II, however, whites were rehired
                              and blacks were demoted, unions and corporations ignored their new
                              policies, and racial prejudice was the order of the day.
                         The struggle for fair employment practices was far from over, however.
                              Federal and state efforts during World War II had established
                              precedents that civil rights leaders continued to support. In 1945 the
                              Indiana General Assembly passed a FEPC bill, a bitter disappointment
                              because it lacked enforcement powers, but nevertheless a step forward.
                              It sent the message that job discrimination could be eliminated.
                         At the end of the war, civic leaders in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were awakened to the need to push harder for fair
                              employment practices in local industries. In December 1945, the Fort
                              Wayne Interracial Commission brought national advocates of fair
                              employment legislation to the city with the hope of mobilizing
                              "public spirited citizens" to improve "the
                              racial minorities problem." "There is plenty of good
                              will in 
                                   America
                              ," remarked A. A. Liveright, the executive
                              director of the American Council on Race Relations, "but a
                              lack of action introducing democracy into race relations."
                              Mrs. Anna Arnold Hedgeman, secretary of the National Council for a
                              Permanent FEPC, expressed outrage that Congressional committees were
                              stalling a House vote on the FEPC bill. Hedgeman pointed out that
                              seven 
                                   Indiana
                               congressmen, including fourth district Republican George
                              Gillie, had not signed the petition to bring the bill to the floor of
                              the House of Representatives. Other speakers included Charles
                              Patterson, a recently discharged veteran who stressed the difficulties
                              black citizens faced in seeking employment, and Jacob Rish, executive
                              secretary of the Fort Wayne Jewish Federation. Confirming
                              Patterson's remarks, Rish reported on data collected to show
                              the increase of local anti-black discrimination since the Japanese
                              surrender. Resolutions passed at the meeting urged support for the
                              Permanent FEPC Bill and for establishing a local FEPC committee in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              . A coalition of community activists concerned with racial
                              discrimination now included conference co-coordinator Rev. Aron
                              Gilmartin, pastor of the Unitarian Society, and Jacob Rish of the
                              Jewish Federation. So much talent and energy focused on the plight of
                              black workers convinced even nonbelievers that a better day was
                                   coming.45
                         
                              45Indianapolis Recorder,
                                   December 8, 1945. By the mid-1940s, there were at least 100
                                   interracial commissions across the 
                                        United
                                             States
                                   . Harvard Sitkoff, "Racial Militancy and
                                   Interracial Violence in the Second World War," Journal of American History, 58 (December
                                   1971), 678.
                         
                    
                    
                    
                         POSTWAR YEARS: 1946-1963
                         In a study of race relations in 
                                   Detroit
                               from 1940 to 1964, historian Thomas J. Sugrue argues that
                              the "liberal consensus" of the New Deal was eroded
                              by "a newly assertive working-class whiteness."
                              While Sugrue pays particular attention to the bitter racial battles
                              over housing in 
                                   Detroit
                              , his analysis of whites' attitudes is relevant
                              to 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               struggle over employment discrimination in the years
                              following World War II. As FWUL leaders were to learn painfully, white
                              working-class union members proved to be the most formidable obstacles
                              to changes in the workplace. Other obstacles, less well-known, came
                              from white community leaders connected with the FWUL and from internal
                              struggles within labor and black leadership.46
                         More than any other institution in the city, the Wheatley Center
                              remained at the center of efforts to confront the intractable problems
                              of race. In 1949 the center, under the leadership of executive
                              secretary Robert E. Wilkerson, directed a researcher for the National
                              Urban League to undertake an in-depth study of its programs and of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               black community. Chief among J. Harvey Kerns's
                              recommendations was that the center abandon its focus on recreation
                              and community organizations in order to strengthen its emphasis on
                              improving the economic status of local black citizens. Under its new
                              name, the Fort Wayne Urban League (FWUL), the center adopted the
                              mission of the National Urban League to serve as "a social
                              planning agency primarily concerned with the general social welfare of
                              the Negro population and with race relations." Stressing that
                              the well-being of black citizens and the larger community depended on
                              economic prosperity, the FWUL recruited board members from the
                              city's business leaders. Furthermore, in its renewed efforts
                              to extend job opportunities, the FWUL attempted to follow
                              Kerns's recommendations to build more positive relations with
                              employers and rank-and-file union members.47
                         
                              46Thomas J. Sugrue,
                                   "Crabgrass-Roots Politics: Race, Rights, and the
                                   Reaction against Liberalism in the Urban North,
                                   1940-1964," Journal of American
                                        History, 82 (September 1995), 552. For a discussion of
                                   racism practiced by unions in the 1950s, see also Manning
                                   Marable, Race, Reform and Rebellion: The Second
                                        Reconstruction in Black 
                                             America
                                        , 1945-1982 (
                                        Jackson
                                   , 
                                        Miss.
                                   , 1984), 54-57.
                              47Kerns, "A Study of Social and
                                   Economic Conditions," 76. Robert Wilkerson (1933-1996),
                                   a graduate of Fisk University and the University of Minnesota,
                                   moved to 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    from 
                                        Anderson
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , in 1946 to serve as executive secretary of the
                                   FWUL. He resigned in 1967. Indianapolis
                                        Recorder, August 17, 1946; Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, July 20, 1996.
                         
                         
                         The reorganization of the FWUL came in direct response to the racism
                              experienced by 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               African Americans. For most black citizens, uncertainty,
                              discrimination, and financial hardships again became a way of life. In
                              1947, black women made up the majority of the city's 4,000
                              unskilled unemployed workers as reported by the United States
                              Employment Services. In a job market seeking highly skilled workers
                              and tightened by economic recession, African American women were once
                              again sidelined. In 1949, 22 percent of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               African American workforce was unemployed, twice the
                              unemployment rate for both the city's total local workforce
                              and for black workers in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . Equally significant, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               unemployment rates for black workers were over twice as
                              high as national averages. With few exceptions, blacks were still
                              largely barred from any but low level jobs. Out of necessity, black
                              women once again reverted to domestic service.48
                         FWUL leaders were frustrated by the deep resistance they met in local
                              industries, but public expressions of discontent produced conflict
                              with their white power base. In the summer of 1949, for example,
                              Wilkerson candidly described employment barriers in the FWULs
                              newsletter Broadcast. Mincing no words, he stated
                              that black men and women, even in periods of full employment, were
                              never hired for better-paying jobs: "Discrimination on
                              account of color, as we know, is the main reason for this satanic
                              condition." In a letter to Wilkerson dated August 30, 1949,
                              white realtor E. H. Kilbourne, president of the board of directors of
                              the FWUL, expressed his "strong objections" to the
                              article, making it clear that Wilkerson's candor had gone too
                              far. A booklet published by the National Urban League the following
                              year, Decent and Fair, emphasized a more positive
                              public face: Fourteen local factories worked with the Urban League
                              chapter to help blacks find jobs, and 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               was to be congratulated for providing exceptional
                              opportunities for African Americans.49
                         
                              48Indianapolis Recorder,
                                   December 8, 1945, November 29, 1947; Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, July 19, 1949; Morgan,
                                   "Latecomers to the Industrial City," 38; Fort Wayne News-Sentinel, June 8, 1999.
                                   According to Karen Anderson, in 1950 the largest percentage of
                                   employed black women [40 percent] worked as domestic servants.
                                   Anderson, "Last Hired, Last Fired," 96; Richard
                                   B. Pierce, Polite Protest: The Political Economy of
                                        Race in 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 2005), 87; Marable, Race, Reform and
                                        Rebellion, 58.
                              49E. H. Kilbourne, President Board of
                                   Directors, to Robert Wilkerson, Executive Secretary, August 30,
                                   1949, FWUL Archives; "Decent and Fair," (
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1950), FWUL Archives.
                         
                         
                         The FWUL persisted nonetheless. Its 1952-1953 survey of 70 local unions
                              verified Wilkerson's earlier remarks. The Fort Wayne
                              Federation of Labor, made up of 39 AFL unions, had no policy regarding
                              minority workers in its organizational manuals; 33 of the 39
                              affiliated unions had no black members. Six of the 15 CIO unions
                              affiliated with the Fort Wayne Industrial Union Council made little if
                              any effort to enforce the council's public non-discrimination
                              pledge. Even in unions with black members, such as the International
                              Brotherhood of Teamsters (AFL), black members were penalized because
                              of race. Unlike white members, they had to own their own vehicles or
                              be guaranteed a job as condition of membership. Among AFL unions that
                              represented some of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               largest employers, including Dana and Essex Wire, black
                              workers represented less than one-half of one percent of the
                              workforce. At General Electric and International Harvester, companies
                              known to hire significant numbers of black workers, race was still a
                              limiting factor. Local 901 of the International Brotherhood of
                              Electrical Workers boasted a total membership of 11,000 but only 350
                              members were black. While the "general relationship"
                              between black and white workers was found to be
                              "good," the union also was aware of the need to
                              initiate "a more vigorous program" in educating
                              workers against discrimination. At International Harvester, 300 black
                              workers - out of a total of 3,500 production workers - belonged to
                              Local 57 UAW. Despite anti-discrimination policies, racial tensions
                              had prompted "several grievance cases" on behalf of
                              black workers. Moreover, black workers expressed little confidence in
                              the union's regard for fair treatment.50
                         The survey's other findings were equally disturbing. Racial
                              prejudices among AFL union members in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were stronger than those among members of the same unions
                              elsewhere in the country. Moreover, "[s]ave in only a few
                              instances, most officials interviewed did not feel that discrimination
                              is both undemocratic and wrong," researchers were told. Among
                              CIO unions, whose members were generally more supportive of
                              non-discrimination practices, "a gradual change in
                              attitude" had occurred since World War II. For all but a few
                              local unions, educational programs to encourage positive race
                              relations were sorely needed.51
                         
                              50"A Survey of the Racial Policies
                                   of Organized Labor in 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                   ."
                              51Ibid.
                         
                         
                         As Iwan Morgan demonstrated in his study of black industrial workers in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , local industries lost jobs in the changing post-World
                              War II economy. Shrinking job markets intensified job competition and
                              increased racial prejudice. Labor unions also retreated from their
                              support for desegregation because of decided changes within 
                                   Indiana
                               CIO leadership and the broad backlash caused by the fear
                              of Communist influence.52
                         In the summer of 1947, the Fort Wayne CIO Council and the Indiana State
                              CIO, working with "several interracial groups,"
                              sponsored an anti-discrimination rally at Central High School. The
                              principal speaker was George L.P. Weaver, national director of the CIO
                              Anti-Discrimination Committee. Affirming the position taken by the
                              union during World War II, Weaver stressed that the 
                                   United
                                        States
                               needed to "live up to her moral code and prove
                              to the rest of the world that democracy can work." Similar
                              meetings took place in 
                                   Gary
                               and 
                                   Muncie
                              .53
                         Two months later, however, whatever statewide support for fair
                              employment practices had existed within the CIO suddenly disappeared.
                              The president and secretary of the state CIO, James McEwan of 
                                   South
                                        Bend
                               and Walter Frisbie of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , were voted out of office. According to the Indianapolis Recorder, the removal of Frisbie, known for
                              his advocacy for black workers during the past six years,
                              "stunned many observers." James Nash of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , by a surprising turn of events, was elected to the state
                              executive board. By the spring of 1948, however, Nash and two other
                              black executive board members were purged from union membership. The
                              reason given for their expulsion was their support for Henry Wallace,
                              the controversial third-party candidate for President who supported
                              the outlawing of racial discrimination and refused to denounce
                                   Communists.54
                         
                              52Morgan, "Latecomers to the
                                   Industrial City," 37.
                              53Indianapolis Recorder,
                                   June 21, 1947.
                              54Expulsion of Wallace-leaning union members
                                   in 
                                        Indiana
                                    anticipated the 1949 purge of progressive CIO
                                   unions, including the 50,000 member United Electrical, Radio, and
                                   Machine Workers Union that both Nash and Frisbie belonged to.
                                   Nash was elected to the Fort Wayne Labor Council at the end of
                                   World War II and was known for his earlier leadership in the
                                   local chapter of the NNC. In 1946, Walter Frisbie was a national
                                   vice president of the NNC; with 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    UAW leader Edna Johnson, he organized an 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    NNC chapter. Indianapolis
                                   Recorder, September 28, 1946, August 30, 1947, March 27,
                                   July 10, 1948; Marable, Race, Reform and
                                        Rebellion, 19-20.
                         
                         
                         As union support for job desegregation faded in the first years after
                              World War II, a newly organized local chapter of the National
                              Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) joined
                              efforts to move the city forward in the struggle over racial
                              discrimination. In January 1946, a cross-section of 70 community
                              activists, black and white, signed a charter with much public support.
                              One of their first initiatives was to co-sponsor an ambitious
                              three-day conference in late November 1946 to address the hard issues
                              of employment, housing, and education. For what was no doubt the first
                              time in the city's history, a broad cross-section of local
                              organizations and civic leaders worked together to bring issues of
                              race before the public. Popular long-term Mayor Harry Baals addressed
                              the 300-plus in attendance. A panel discussion led by Jacob L. Risk,
                              director of the Fort Wayne Jewish Federation, drew particular
                              attention to the problems of employment. Conference highlights and
                              future plans were broadcast on local radio station WOWO. Such open and
                              frank discussions and broad support buoyed hope and gave the
                              appearance of change.55
                         During the next few years, leaders of the local NAACP played a key role
                              in reenergizing and redirecting programs of the Indiana State
                              Association for the Advancement of Colored People. In January 1947,
                              they hosted a three-day conference at Union Baptist Church for
                              delegates from the state's eighteen branches. Priorities for
                              future actions included enforcing 
                                   Indiana's
                               1885 civil rights law; dropping racial barriers for
                              federally funded housing; immediately eliminating segregation in 
                                   Indiana
                               schools; and strengthening 
                                   Indiana's
                               weak FEPC law. Conferees elected Rev. Aron Gilmartin as
                              vice president, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               attorney Willard B. Ransom as president, and James Nash,
                              chairman of the resolutions committee, to the board of directors. The
                              following year Nash was appointed the state chapter's
                              committee chairman for labor and industry.56
                         
                              55Working with the NAACP were the Fort Wayne
                                   Interracial Commission, the YMCA, the Wheatley Social Center, the
                                   Unitarian Society of Fort Wayne, Teachers' Council No.
                                   700, the AFL, the Union Baptist Church, the Allen County
                                   Association of Social Workers, the Turner Chapel AME, the Jewish
                                   Federation, the Northeast Indiana Chapter of the American
                                   Association of Social Workers, the Fort Wayne Federation of Labor
                                   and the Mothers of World War II, Unit No. 144. Earlier NAACP
                                   chapters had existed in the 1920s and 1930s but ceased meeting
                                   during the Depression and World War II years. Fort
                                        Wayne News-Sentinel, November 22, 23, 25, 1946.
                              56Indianapolis Recorder,
                                   November 8, 1947; December 11, 1948.
                         
                         
                         
                              Delegates to the 1947 state NAACP convention in 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    After the war, 
                                        Fort Wayne's
                                    chapter pushed for fair employment practices.
                                   Courtesy Indiana State Museum
                         
                         Along with Robert Wilkerson of the FWUL, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               NAACP leaders lobbied the General Assembly as part of an
                              all-out effort to add enforcement powers to 
                                   Indiana's
                               weak 1945 FEPC law. 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               NAACP chapter also sent delegates to the January 1950
                              march on 
                                   Washington
                               to demand passage of federal civil rights laws, first and
                              foremost being stronger FEPC legislation. Despite new organizational
                              strengths on both fronts, however, results were bitterly
                              disappointing. Furthermore, efforts to achieve stronger FEPC
                              legislation were diluted by the broader civil rights agenda. Attention
                              turned to the fight in the Indiana General Assembly, led by state
                              NAACP president Ransom, to desegregate public schools. In another
                              setback, the NAACP's Walter White led a sweep against
                              left-leaning supporters of Henry Wallace and pushed them out of
                              office. Nash once again became the victim of power politics.57
                         
                              57Ibid., February 28, December 3, 18, 1948,
                                   March 19, 1949. Andrew W. Ramsey, Recorder
                                   columnist, describes the "name calling" and
                                   "economic reprisals and social ostracism" that
                                   Willard Ransom faced as a Wallace supporter. Ibid., November 2,
                                   1963.
                         
                         
                         By the early 1950s both Gilmartin and Nash had moved away from 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              , and with leadership changes, local NAACP program
                              priorities changed as well. While state leaders continued to work for
                              stronger FEPC legislation, in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               a small group of activists, working outside of media
                              spotlights in a cautious and gradual way, sought to eliminate
                              segregation in public accommodations. Dr. Clyde Adams, the new pastor
                              of Union Baptist Church, led efforts to desegregate restaurants while
                              embarking on a weekly evening radio broadcast to spread a positive
                              picture of African Americans through music and worship.58
                         Despite continued resistance from white industrial workers in skilled
                              trades, as the 1950s wore on, black men and women in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               had some reasons for optimism. More than fifty employment
                              "firsts" throughout the decade gave them a footing
                              in new white-collar and professional positions. The first black
                              registered nurse was hired by Methodist Hospital (the forerunner of
                              Parkview Hospital). In the early 1950s, Fort Wayne Community Schools
                              hired its first three black teachers. Bell Telephone Company hired two
                              black customer service operators. In the mid-1950s, Lincoln National
                              Life Insurance Company, Northern Indiana Public Service Company, and
                              Fort Wayne Transit Company offered blacks employment for the first
                              time. Due to pressure from the local Unitarian Universalist
                              congregation, Wolf & Dessaur Department Store hired their
                              first black sales clerk. Sears and Roebuck hired its first local black
                              saleslady in 1959. That same year marked the first time that black
                              maintenance workers were hired by Fort Wayne Community Schools.59
                         In the Urban League's Annual Report for 1959, Robert Wilkerson
                              expressed confidence that cautious progress over the past ten years
                              had contributed to "progressive social change in this
                              city." "While this degree of accomplishment has been
                              slow, time consuming, and costly," he wrote, "it is
                              unequaled in any other city in the state. We are not likely to lose
                              these gains." Only two years later, however, unemployment
                              once again plagued the African American community in Depression-era
                                   
                                   58Ibid., November 12, 1955. In November
                                        1950, 
                                             Gary
                                         became the first and only 
                                             Indiana
                                         city to pass a local FEPC law. 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         civil rights leaders had failed to win support
                                        of the city council for a FEPC ordinance during the summer
                                        and fall of 1946. Ibid., July 6, October 12, 26, November 2,
                                        1946, November 25, 1950.
                                   59"Fort Wayne Urban League
                                        39th Annual Report" 1959, FWUL Archives; interview
                                        with Larry Burke, June 12, 2008.
                              
                              percentages. Two thousand African
                              Americans in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were unemployed, one-third of the total number of
                              unemployed workers. Quoted in the Recorder, Wilkerson charged that
                              "[s]ome forces in the community would prefer to emphasize the
                              areas of job upgrading that have occurred rather than face up to the
                              acute unemployment and under employment among Negroes."60
                         Wilkerson became freer to speak without fear of reprisals following a
                              double victory in 1961 for civil rights legislation: the passage by
                              the Indiana General Assembly of the Indiana Fair Employment Practices
                              Act and the establishment of the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
                              (ICRC). The ICRC's original powers to investigate complaints
                              of racial discrimination relating to employment and public
                              accommodations were strengthened two years later by the Indiana Civil
                              Rights Act of 1963. In addition to the authority to hold public
                              hearings, the commission now had power to impose cease-and-desist
                              orders upon companies found to practice racial discrimination. In
                              February 1963, Wilkerson and Dr. Bernard Stuart, president of the Fort
                              Wayne NAACP, aired grievances at an ICRC hearing held at the Hotel Van
                              Orman. Wilkerson and Stuart criticized the Mayor's Commission
                              on Human Rights for inadequately reporting racial discrimination and
                              the city as a whole for housing and employment restrictions. Asked if
                              either the FWUL or the NAACP prosecuted known legal violations,
                              Wilkerson repeated the frustration he had expressed more than ten
                              years earlier in a FWUL newsletter: "You can imagine what
                              would happen if we started prosecution against a company that was a
                              heavy contributor to the United Fund. He would naturally call the
                              United Fund and ask 'What is this guy Wilkerson trying to
                                   do?'"61
                         In spring 1963, Wilkerson spoke out to local business and industry
                              leaders with the same directness. Of the 30,000 workers employed in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               fourteen largest industries, only 1,100 were black. Over
                              three-fourths of black workers, moreover, were employed by two
                              companies. Labor unions continued to block blacks from apprenticeship
                              programs. Unemployment for blacks was at 12.4 percent, while the rate
                              for the city was only 3.9 percent. Average yearly income for blacks
                              was $2,400 less than that for whites. "There must be a
                              turning point," 
                                   60"Fort Wayne Urban League
                                        39th Annual Report"; Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, March 4, 1961.
                                   61Thornbrough, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Blacks in the Twentieth Century, 336;
                                             Broadcast, February 28, 1963, FWUL
                                        Archives.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Bob Wilkerson, c. 1960 Wilkerson, during
                                        his years as leader of the Fort Wayne Urban League, was an
                                        outspoken opponent of paternalistic discrimination.
                                        Courtesy African / African American Historical Society Fort
                                        Wayne
                               Wilkerson told the businessmen. "We are in the
                              midst of another emancipation, such as that proclaimed 100 years ago.
                              The Negro is determined to get all his rights now. He wants
                              first-class citizenship. He cannot be patient any longer." In
                              reference to the expanding civil rights movement in the South,
                              Wilkerson warned, "Don't say 
                                   Birmingham
                               can't happen here."62
                         In June, the growing urgency and impatience of the national civil rights
                              movement were made clear on a local level when Rev. Martin Luther King
                              Jr. spoke to an overflow crowd of more than 3,000 packed into the
                              downtown Scottish Rite Auditorium. "Now is the time to get
                              rid of segregation, now is the time to make the American dream a
                              reality," King told his cheering audience. "We have
                              learned to stand up against evil and still not hate. We have
                              discovered love works miracles." 
                                   62Broadcast, February
                                        28, 1963; Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, May
                                        2, 1963.
                              
                              On August 27, nineteen local
                              residents, including Dr. Bernard Stuart, boarded a bus at Pilgrim
                              Baptist Church for the ten-hour ride to 
                                   Washington D.C.
                               Together with 200,000 black and white citizens from
                              across the country, they converged at the steps of the Lincoln
                              Memorial in the largest civil rights protest in the nation's
                              history to hear Dr. King's challenge.63
                         In the months following the March on 
                                   Washington
                              , the unemployment, poverty, and discrimination
                              experienced by African Americans in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were confirmed in another FWUL study. Blacks were a
                              "social drag on the community" because of their lack
                              of economic power and their complacency. Roughly 12 percent of the
                              black working force was employed in white-collar positions, compared
                              with over 50 percent of white workers. The instability of the black
                              industrial working class was a major, yet largely unrecognized,
                              deterrent to community progress, the study's authors
                              stressed: "Negroes will be able to contribute proportionately
                              to the total welfare of the community only when they are in a position
                              of reasonable social and economic equality." To Wilkerson and
                              black leaders nationwide, urban black ghettos were powder kegs ready
                              to go off.64
                         
                         In Polite Protest: The Political Economy of Race in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1920-1970, historian Richard P. Pierce
                              describes efforts to break employment barriers as "a one-note
                              song . .. played to a familiar tune": "African
                              Americans pressed for change and increased opportunity, and white
                              business, labor, and political leaders forestalled their advancement
                              through legal and extra legal means." Such was also the case
                              in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                              . From the early years of the New Deal, black leaders of
                              the Wheatley Center/Urban League had pressed for new employment
                              opportunities with only limited success. They had few allies in the
                              public arena of white political, business, and labor leaders. Black
                              citizens also faced restraints brought on by their own internal
                              political conflicts and societal priorities. The local NAACP branch,
                              late to organize, was hurt by the Communist scare that purged social
                              activists and by the failure of leaders to move from educational
                              forums to direct protests. By the 
                                   63Fort Wayne
                                             Journal-Gazette, June 16, 18, 20, 1964.
                                   64Pierce, Polite
                                             Protest, 86.
                              
                              mid-1950s the compelling national
                              civil rights agenda also drew attention away from their
                              community's needs.65
                         African Americans in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               experienced unemployment rates among the highest in the
                              nation during the Depression and following World War II. In the latter
                              period, economic recessions further eroded their job opportunities and
                              provoked racial discrimination. While 
                                   Indiana's
                               overall economy continued to grow, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               lost manufacturing jobs. Contrasts with 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               labor force are particularly striking. During the 1950s, 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               expanding economy and low unemployment rates allowed
                              black workers to find new opportunities for skilled work. 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne's
                               African Americans, in contrast, were not only
                              under-employed; they were unemployed.66
                         More than anything else, black citizens in 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               were hindered by a complex pattern of liberal
                              interracialism that hid their city's deep structural racism.
                              The outstanding annual forums sponsored by the Fort Wayne Interracial
                              Commission added to the city's reputation as being
                              progressive in terms of race relations. Unlike other cities going
                              through rapid changes during World War II, 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               was spared hate strikes and race riots. The
                              city's progressive leaders, like many Americans, perceived
                              the apparent racial peace as promoting racial justice. Black and white
                              leaders alike failed to understand how deeply embedded racism was in
                              their city's industrial culture. They followed patient,
                              polite methods, believing a better day was coming. Repeatedly, their
                              efforts were blocked by white workers and employers who held on to the
                              status quo and by their own reluctance to alienate their economic
                              base.
                         By 1963, black community leaders were again pushing back, and now the
                              country was beginning to move with them. The decades of patience and
                              accommodation, of polite protest with the expectations of voluntary
                              compliance, were over. Black citizens had built an urban community,
                              but their community was broken with unemployment and poverty. They
                              faced challenges equal to, if not greater than, those of the Great
                              Depression. Changes meant building economic security and 
                                   65Ibid., 104; Indianapolis
                                             Recorder, August 18, 1951; James H. Madison, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Through Tradition and Change,
                                             1920-1945 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1982), 380.
                                   66Sitkoff, "Racial Militancy
                                        and Interracial Violence," 662.
                              
                              community coalitions in a city
                              that lacked traditions of fair employment, public protest, and
                              minority leadership. Equally important, changes depended on turning
                              despair and apathy within the black community into hope. More than
                              ever, black citizens needed to believe in Martin Luther
                              King's dream for 
                                   America
                              .
                    
               
               
               
                    "Nothing Gives Me More Pleasure Than to Hear From You"
                         The Civil War Letters of Sgt. Samuel B. Seely
                    TRANSCRIBED AND INTRODUCED BY JOHN SICKLES
                    On August 13, 1862, twenty-five-year-old Samuel B. Seely enrolled as a
                         private in the 4th Indiana Cavalry, 77th Regiment, at 
                              Newberry
                          in 
                              Greene
                                   County
                         . He was mustered into the regiment in 
                              Indianapolis
                          on August 20, and he remained in the war until its end, rising
                         in rank to sergeant and mustering out on June 29, 1865, at 
                              Edgefield
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         .
                    The ten letters that follow were written by Seely to Elizabeth Hicks, a
                         sixteen-year-old neighbor back home, who, after the war, would become his
                         wife. They begin in September 1862 and continue to June 18, 1865, just days
                         before Seely's regiment was disbanded.
                    Seely's writing subtly illustrates his courtship of Hicks. For the
                         most part, his tone is humble and a bit bashful, although he sometimes
                         boasts or teases a little. He offers to send Hicks a miniature portrait of
                         a southern girl who "almost" fell in love with him;
                         realizing his mistake, 
                              John Sickles is a life-long reader of Civil War history and has
                                   collected documents and photographs from the period for more than
                                   thirty years. The Seely letters were found in an antique shop in 
                                        Jackson County
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , and purchased in the 1980s.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (September 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University.
                         
                         
                         
                              Sgt. Samuel Seely, Co. I, 4th Indiana Cavalry
                                   Courtesy of the author
                         
                         he soon apologizes for writing
                         "so maney foolish things about other girls down in the wooden
                         country that I was a fraid you had got mad at me." The soldier
                         tries to be conscious of a young girl's sensibilities. He tells
                         stories of camp life - of how one friend received a "Dear
                         John" letter from the same girl who had urged him to enlist, and
                         of how he himself was teased by comrades over a gift that Elizabeth sent
                         him. Loneliness is another common subject - like so many other Civil War
                         soldiers, Seely sometimes begs for letters from home.
                    Nevertheless, Seely does not shrink from addressing the horrors of war. In
                         his June 15, 1863, letter - written from a hospital in 
                              Tennessee
                          - he expresses anger at the enemy for the death of a mutual
                         friend. He also confides to Hicks that he has been responsible for more
                         than a few Confederates "biting the dust."
                    Seely appears to have remained hospitalized until sometime in November,
                         missing most of his regiment's campaign in eastern 
                              Tennessee
                         . Upon his return to duty in early 1864 he went
                         "veteran," re-enlisting under a bargain offered by the
                         government for veteran soldiers. In return for reenlistment, he received a
                         thirty-day leave of absence, a cash bounty, and a stripe to sew on his
                         uniform sleeve. Over the next year-and-a-half, he fought in a series of
                         major battles and smaller skirmishes. He also spent time on courier duty,
                         sometimes a very dangerous assignment.
                    By the time Seely wrote his August 31, 1864, letter, the 4th Indiana Cavalry
                         was part of Sherman's Atlanta Campaign. From May 1 through
                         September 31, Federal forces drove southward from 
                              Dalton
                         , 
                              Georgia
                         , all the way to the city. Seely's letter indicates
                         that he was on courier duty for General George Thomas, the Federal hero of
                         Chickamauga and the commander of the Army of the Cumberland. Meanwhile the
                         rest of the regiment, along with other cavalry, was engaged in a raid
                         around 
                              Atlanta
                          to sever railroad supply lines to the beleaguered city. Seely
                         predicted, correctly, that the Union forces would soon have
                         Atlanta-Confederate forces holding the city surrendered on September 1, and
                         federal troops marched in on September 4. Seely's letter of
                         September 8 describes entering a largely abandoned 
                              Atlanta
                         . He tries to relate to Hicks how it felt to enter the almost
                         silent city, after weeks of bombardment by shot and shell. "Not a
                         house in the business part of the city," he writes, "but
                         what has been hit and damaged more or less."
                    Seely's next letter documents the last major campaign of the war:
                         General James Harrison Wilson's great raid through the Deep South.
                         With three cavalry divisions, Wilson pushed through 
                              Alabama
                          to  capture 
                              Selma
                         , an important military manufacturing center. Wilson then moved
                         as far south as 
                              Macon
                         , where he learned of the end of the war.
                    Seely's last letter, written from 
                              Nashville
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         , anticipates his return to 
                              Indiana
                          and to civilian life. After being mustered out in late June
                         1865, Seely returned to 
                              Greene
                                   County
                          and married Elizabeth Hicks in November of that same year. Two
                         daughters were born to the couple, Gara in 1867 and Winna in 1874.
                    Seely died of a heart attack in 
                              Lancaster
                         , 
                              Pennsylvania
                         , in September 1875. When his widow applied for
                         veteran's pension in 1880, his former company commander, Captain
                         Henry Billingsley, attested to Seely's various maladies during the
                         war: In the latte part of Sept. 1826, [Seely] Was
                              taken sick and remained so for several weeks. In the spring of early
                              summer of 1863 he was taken sick and sent to the hospital at 
                                   Nashville
                              , 
                                   Tenn.
                              , and did not return to the company until late fall, and
                              when he did return he had lost his voice. He continued to suffer with
                              said disease more or less as long as he was in the Army.
                    Samuel Seely was an ordinary young Hoosier farmer who lived in a singular
                         period in American history and experienced extraordinary events. His
                         letters seldom reveal his political opinions, except for his extreme
                         dislike of the Southern sympathizers back home who "have disgraced
                         themselves and can never shake it off." He does not write about
                         the leaders he served under, but instead about the common soldiers from his
                         company and regiment. In these letters, we get a taste of how an average
                         soldier, coping with loneliness and witnessing death and destruction around
                         him, doing his duty without criticism or rancor, presented his experiences
                         to the girl whom he hoped to rejoin.
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  Camp 4th Ind Calvary
                                             Sept. 6th 1862
                                        
                                        Miss Lizie Dear friend
                                        I have but a few minutes to wright so I shal have to
                                             scrach in a hurey the boyes are taking down our tent
                                             now We will march all night to night I expect. My
                                             health is pretty good except I have lost my speach and
                                             cant talk louder than a Whisper to save my life Well
                                             Lib I have not much time to wright so I must just say
                                             what I cant help and that is I think this war is about
                                             plade out The Rebs are retreating every where We are
                                             now within seven milds of the 
                                                  Georgia
                                              line now and before the sun rises agin we
                                             will be several milds in 
                                                  Georgia
                                              if nothing happens1
                                             Well Lib you musent think that I don't want to
                                             hear from you because I told you not to wright but I
                                             know you dont think so fore I know nothing gives me
                                             more pleasure than to hear from you But if I dont so I
                                             can talk they will not let me stay in the Regt. So if
                                             you did wright it would not likely get it but I will
                                             wright to you so how I get along The bugal has sounded
                                             for us to sadle and I must quit so no more
                                        
                                             yours until death
                                             S B Seely
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             Triune, Tennisee 
                                                        
                                             June the 15th 1863
                                        
                                        Friend Lib
                                        Its once more I wright you a few lines in answer to your
                                             kind and interesting letter which I reseived yesterday.
                                             Baring a date June the 1st to 4th it found me well and
                                             hope this may find you the same I was glad to hear from
                                             you though I was sadisfide of the fearful news you
                                             would have to tell me. When I first heard of it I did
                                             not know how to consine my self to hiss loss but fore
                                             all his is better off than any of us.2 yet to think when I go home and see the
                                             gathering of the young folks he will be missing and
                                             many others of my friends it makes my blood boil for
                                             revenge just to think that these Rebs should caus such
                                             things to happen I have been the caus of a few of them
                                             biting the dust That is some consilation to me to know
                                             that I have possibley avenged the death of my near
                                             friends but I 
                                                  1After fighting at 
                                                  Madisonville
                                                  , 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                  , on September 5, the regiment
                                                  remained in action in western 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                   until ordered to 
                                                  Tennessee
                                                   in January 1863.
                                                  2Individual companies
                                                  within regiments were often composed of men from
                                                  the same town or county. In this case, an unnamed
                                                  mutual friend in another regiment has died in the
                                                  war.
                                             
                                             will stop this
                                             painful subject The wether is very warm here and our
                                             duty is very heavy we have had two skirmishes since we
                                             came out there and the day before we laft 
                                                  Murfreesboro
                                              on the 9th and got through the same day.
                                             Lib I cant wright much to day I am not very well I have
                                             not got a letter from home for a long time but hope to
                                             reseive one soon When youn wright tell me whare Lias
                                             Foster come from and what he fellows and whare he lives
                                             and whether he is any account or not fore I expect they
                                             will make a match for Father ses if a widower got his
                                             arm around a girl once she was gone so you can know buy
                                             asking Lide that whether he has got her fast yet or not
                                             If I was home I could have some fun playing her but I
                                             guess she neadent be afraid of me bothering her fore a
                                             while yet Tell Mag I wish her and (Mr Roach) her Beaux
                                             a merry Fourth of July But I must soon close we are
                                             looking for some big fighting here soon There is quite
                                             a Reble force out in front of us and they might attacet
                                             us soon or we will then3 But I will
                                             stop for I cant wright
                                        
                                             Yours with respect
                                             S. B. Seely
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             June the 18th 1863
                                        
                                        Havin an opportunity to wright this morning I hast[e] to
                                             finish this short letter I have been very sick for a
                                             few days the DR sed I was taking Neumoneye but the
                                             fever is stopped me now and I feel first rate with
                                             exceptions of being weak and I shal be all right in a
                                             few dayes Now I think But I must close
                                        
                                             Pleas excuse this short letter and wright soon
                                                  to you friend,
                                             Sam
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  Hospital No 3 Nashvile, Tennisee 
                                             
                                             Nov 10th 1863
                                        
                                        Miss Lizzie
                                        It is with plesure I seat myself to answer your kind note
                                             of the 16th of Oct which I reseived a few dayes ago;
                                             and read with plesure. It found me in about the same
                                             health as when I last wrote. When I wrote to you I
                                             thought be home before this time but a soldier does not
                                             know one minute whare he will be the next. My Captain
                                             told me when I left the regt that he would send paper
                                             with me from the division Surgeon so that I could be
                                             sent home. But them papers ware lost and that is the
                                             reson I 
                                                  3The 4th Indiana Cavalry
                                                  fought several battles in 
                                                  Tennessee
                                                   during the first six months of 1863.
                                                  By the time of this letter, Seely and his comrades
                                                  were less than one week away from the beginning of
                                                  the Tullahoma campaign to secure central 
                                                  Tennessee
                                                  .
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                                  John H. Benton O'Neal,
                                                  Co. I, 4th Indiana Cavalry Courtesy of the
                                                  author
                                              am here. But I think that I will soon be able
                                             to Join my Regt again & then I feel confident
                                             that the Capt will have me sent home. But if he does
                                             not if I can keep about to stay with the Regt I am
                                             perfectly wiling to stay But I am cleat out of cansate of Military Hospt.
                                        I was happley surprised the other day while walking on
                                             the street to hear Bent hollering at me4 We had a good chat He looks tolerby well.
                                             But says he feels rather limber yet. he left for the
                                             front the next day I have not heard from him since.
                                        I have been looking for a letter from Shep for some time
                                             but I cant see it yet. I guess he has got on some werd
                                             track as clum a saplin. 
                                                  4Probably Pvt. John
                                                  Harvey Benton O'Neal, from
                                                  Seely's regiment and company.
                                                  O'Neal, like Seely, fought through the
                                                  rest of the war, mustering out on June 29,
                                                  1865.
                                             
                                             I would like to be
                                             with him a few dayes to see whar he would lead me. I
                                             have not had a letter from home since I left the Regt I
                                             guess they think if I am going to be sick all the time
                                             that I am not worth wrighting to. And I guess they
                                             would not change their opinion if they was to see
                                             me.
                                        
                                             No more But remain your friend,
                                             S. B. Seely
                                             
                                                  Direct to Hospital No. 3 Ward 7 Nashville Tenn
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  North Chattahoochie River, Georga
                                             July 12th 1864
                                        
                                        Miss Elizabeth A. Hicks Much Respected
                                             Friend
                                        I drop you a few lines in answer to your very kind and
                                             interesting letter of June 13th which I reseived a few
                                             moments ago and as we have to march tomorrow I shal
                                             answer it now for thare is know telling when I shal
                                             have another opertunity of wrighting again This leaves
                                             me well and in good spirits (not ardent) confident of
                                             secesess of the Union caus we have been laying in camp
                                             for four dayes and nights the longest we have been
                                             quiete since the campainne commenced That battle on
                                                  Read.
                                                  River you spoke of my Regt was not in.
                                             There is only one company of the Regt. In that
                                             Department it is Gen. [Andrew J.] Smith's
                                             boddy guard so when you hear of fighting in that
                                             Department you need not be uneasy about me they are
                                             under Gen. [Benjamin] Buttler & [Nathaniel]
                                                  Banks.5 I under [William]
                                             Sherman & [George] Thomas.
                                        You spoke of Phillip Halferd getting kild I mention it in
                                             a letter I wroat soon after it happened.6 It was a hard fight the Rebels mast their
                                             forces on our left that evening and charged to brake
                                             our lines the conflict ws desperate they drove our
                                             Skirmish line but when they came to our line of battle
                                             we repulsed them and sent them howling back. Phillips
                                             Regt was sed to of fought noble and he was kild right
                                             in front of one of our Batteries (that the Rebels tried
                                             to take) so he dide at his post like a true soldier.
                                             Please tell me in your next if you know what became of
                                             his 
                                                  
                                                  5Company C was detached from
                                                  the rest of the regiment to serve, as Seely noted,
                                                  as guard to Gen. Andrew J. Smith, who had been
                                                  promoted to Major General in May 1864, and had
                                                  been in command of a detached corps of the
                                                  Department of the Gulf during the Red River
                                                  Campaign.
                                                  6This may be a reference
                                                  to Sgt. Phillip Halstead, Co. K of the 80th
                                                  Indiana Infantry, killed at 
                                                  Resaca
                                                  , 
                                                  Georgia
                                                  , on May 14, 1864.
                                             
                                             boddy. I was there
                                             in the fight but did not know for several dayes that he
                                             was kild it was after night before the fight was over
                                             and we followed the Rebles until they got into Breast
                                             Works and when I came back over the field it was to
                                             dark to see. that was in front of 
                                                  Raseckee
                                             7 since then we have
                                             had hard fighting but thank God we have [been]
                                             victorious in every case driving them from their works
                                             at New Hope Church to Kenasaw
                                                  Mountain and now they are all over the
                                                  River
                                                  Chattahoochie and we will be hard on to
                                             them and 
                                                  Atlanta
                                              soon will be ours8 I
                                             expect by this time next week without a doubt. The
                                             armey in the East is moving on finley and I hope the
                                             hardest of the fighting will end this falls Campaign.
                                             You wanted to know if my regiment was going veterans
                                             this fall. I have know talk of it as yet but expect it
                                             will get an invitation to go home time before long I
                                             have not full made up my mind yet whether to try it
                                             three years longer or not if I thought my service ware
                                             needed I would not hesitate a moment. But as it is I
                                             will leave it to you. but if you tell me to go I find
                                             out you were as Sergt. Guys (one of my mess mates) girl
                                             did him (or as he ses she did) His storey is this.9 He had been paying his
                                             attentions to her for two or three years and she was
                                             [a] very afectionate miss and very patrietet but did
                                             not think she would agree for him to go to the Armey
                                             for he sed he never wanted to go. So one time he sed to
                                             her that he had a notion of going to the Armey (just to
                                             hear what she would say) and she commenced to cry
                                             saying it was worse than death to part with him, but
                                             she sed go for her sake and fight the battle for his
                                             Contreys Rights & for the Liberty of all and
                                             when the Bloody Strife was over to return to her
                                             crowing with victorey & honer and then they
                                             would be one for ever so with a heavy hart he left her.
                                             and just three months after he reseived a letter that
                                             she was hapley united to another and he ses those
                                             patriotick young ladyes wont do. But know more of that
                                             for I must soon close for I have some duty to do and it
                                             is near night. 
                                                  7
                                                  Resaca
                                                   was one of the places where
                                                  Confederate General Johnston had taken up a
                                                  defensive position against the Federal march
                                                  toward 
                                                  Atlanta
                                                  . The two sides fought from May 13 to
                                                  15; on the 16th, Johnston began to withdraw
                                                  further south.
                                                  8Federal and Confederate
                                                  forces continued to clash as Sherman's
                                                  troops drove south: 3 days of fierce fighting at
                                                  New Hope Church was followed by the Battle for
                                                  Kenesaw Mountain, which saw heavy Union
                                                  casualties. By early July, Johnston was trying to
                                                  maintain a Confederate stand along the Chattahoochie River.
                                                  9Probably Jonathan H.
                                                  Guy, Sergeant (as of November 10, 1863), Co. I of
                                                  the 4th Indiana Cavalry.
                                             
                                             
                                                  Jonathan Guy, Co. I, 4th Indiana
                                                  CavalryCourtesy of the author
                                              Pleas wright soon and tell me all the news
                                             and be shure and send me the portagraph I wish them
                                             girls was in [illegible] before they took it away.
                                        So farewell for the present hoping to hear from you
                                             soon
                                        
                                             Repsectifuly Yours
                                             S. B. Seely
                                             To Miss E. A. Hicks 
                                                  Please just
                    direct. S. B. Seely Co. I 4th Ind. Cavl other directions often delay the letter
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             Chattahoochie River, GA
                                             August the 31st 1864
                                        
                                        Respected Friend
                                        It is with pleasure I drop you a few lines to let you
                                             know that I am well hoping this short note may find you
                                             injoying the same greate blessing. I am still on
                                             Courier Duty having a pretty good time at present Our
                                                  Armey being on
                                             a flank move our courier line has been taken off it
                                             being unsafe to travel from here to Head, Quarters
                                             except in force I am now at the Rail Road Bridge, but
                                             the largest portion of our Armey is nearly in the rear
                                             of 
                                                  Atlanta
                                              I left Gen. [George] Thomas Head Quarters
                                             night before last and came to this place the Armey was
                                             then at 
                                                  Read Oak
                                              on the West Point & Macon Rail
                                             Road and a garding ahead the Enemy apeer to be at a
                                             loss to know what our Armey intends to do they lay
                                             clost to our lines but very little fighting as yet. But
                                             they will soon have to fight or run and 
                                                  Atlanta
                                              will be ours or [William T.] Sherman will
                                             be defeated with in a few dayes. But that is enough of
                                             war for I hope it does not bother you nor never will
                                             but if the Copper Heads do not stop their whineing I
                                             feer that the good old Hoshier State will have her soil
                                             stained with maney a battle. But still I hope for
                                             better things. I hope when they see that the South can
                                             not hold out agants us they will be afraid to go to
                                             raising a fuss at home. I see that thare is a greate
                                             maney that did advocate the Butternut Dockterin when I
                                             was at home have since volunteered in the Armey but
                                             that does not clear them in my opinion for they have
                                             disgraced themselves and can never shake it off. But
                                             some of those fellowes that have been [illegible]
                                             soldiers and pinning Butternut pins on them will have
                                             some of their sport sent back to them when the soldiers
                                             enough of them gets home to be equel to them.
                                        I have thought of sending you a minatire likeness of a
                                             young lady who I became aquanted with under very
                                             [illegible] sircumstances and befriended her and she
                                             almost fell in love with me but I told her that I never
                                             could return her afection. Then she told me she would
                                             always be my best friend and when I went to leave her
                                             gave me her minature and wanted mine but I had none so
                                             I gave her a Gold pencil I had and she sed she would
                                             keep it as long as she lived I saw her the other Day
                                             and I told her that I would get the likeness
                                             [Illegible] and she told me to send it to you. Shal do
                                             so. I can not wright more to night but when we meet I
                                             can tell you all
                                        
                                             until then I remain yours
                                             Sam
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                             Courier Line 
                                                  
                                                       Atlanta
                                                  , Georgia
                                        
                                             September the 8th, 1864
                                        
                                        Dear friend
                                        Not having an opertunity to send you my note of Augut
                                             31st until the present time I thought I should wright
                                             you some more to let you know how I get along my health
                                             was never Better. And the good sucksess 
                                             
                                                  Federal Troop Encampment in 
                                                  Atlanta
                                                  , September 1864 Seely describes
                                                  the "strange site" of going into
                                                  "the Create City and know person in it at
                                                  all." Courtesy of the Library of
                                                  Congress
                                              our Armey keeps my spirits boyant. the greate
                                             flank move of our Armey I spoke of in my letter of the
                                             31st proved a perfect sucksess and 
                                                  Atlanta
                                              is our at last we had a hard fight on the
                                             Macon R. Road but whipped the Rebs Bad and tore up the
                                             road for thirty milds below this place. And the
                                             campaign is over the Armey is all coming back here to
                                             go into quarters, the Armey of the Cumberland will be
                                             here the Armey of the Tennesee at 
                                                  Sand Town
                                              some twenty milds below here in the river
                                             and the Armey of the Ohio at 
                                                  Decatur
                                              seven milds about here. Gen. Thomas Head
                                             Quarters will be here so I am told. and the Officer
                                             told me that I would be kept at His Head Quarters so I
                                             shal lead a city life until the next Campaign. And it
                                             is verry agreable to me after so ling and so hard a campaign as we
                                             have had. This is quite a City (it had 30,000
                                             inhabitance befor the war I believe) but it is torn up
                                             a greate deal now for our Armey sheld it for two weeks
                                             befor taking it and thare is not a house in the
                                             business part of the city but what has been hit and
                                             damaged more or less I went into Town within an hour
                                             after our Skirmisers past through it was a strange site
                                             for me thare was the Greate City and know person in it
                                             at all but a few men to keep the Yankees from killing
                                             them. them that did stay could ot get away.
                                        I shal have to close for I can not wright with this pen
                                             so you can read it I don't expect I think here
                                             and on this sheet will be enough to keep you reading
                                             for a day or two So I will close hoping to hear from
                                             you soon
                                        
                                             Until then I remain as ever yours,
                                             Sam
                                             Please Direct S. B. Seely Atlanta, Georga Care of Lieut. C.C.
                                        McCreary Commanding Courier Line
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  Camp of the 4th Ind Cav 
                                                  Bowling Greene,
                                                       Kentuckey10
                                             December the 20th /64
                                        
                                        Miss E. A. Hicks Dear Friend
                                        I reseived you most welcomed note of the 6th inst
                                             yesterday and was glad to hear from you it being the
                                             first for a long time. I had almost dispard of ever
                                             hearing from you again I had written so maney foolish
                                             things about other girls down in the wooden country
                                             that I was a fraid you had got mad at me thing I had
                                             abused your friendship. Which I fear I have but it shal
                                             never be so again I shal not thing you have forgot me
                                             if I do not hear from you again while I am in the
                                             service. I have been away from you for a long tie and
                                             as you have proven faithful so long I am not afraid of
                                             you forsaking me now and I may be much changed perhaps
                                             I am. But my love for you is the same to day it was the
                                             day I left for the Armey So we will look over all
                                             future troubles and I will send you one of my
                                             photographs It is a very poor one my hair was too short
                                             and you can not get a good picture when you have a poor
                                             subject you know
                                        
                                             10The 4th Indiana Cavalry had
                                                  been ordered to 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                   for refitting in December
                                                  1864.
                                        
                                        
                                        I can not wright much to day for it is too cold The ink
                                             almost freezes in my pin I will wright again as soon as
                                             possible
                                        
                                             I am Respectfuliy
                                             Your Obt. Servt
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  Near Water Loo Ala11
                                             February 17th /65
                                        
                                        Miss E. A. Hicks Respected Friend
                                        I drop you a few lines this pleasant evening to let you
                                             know that I still survive the Storm and am in the best
                                             health. I wrote you quite a leghty letter a few days
                                             ago. in fact I have written some eight or ten since I
                                             have been at this camp for I have not had mutch else to
                                             do but wright. and I have written a letter apice to all
                                             of my cousins [illegible] and two or three to some but
                                             have faild to get an answer from any one. the Regt got
                                             mail to day I was in hopes I would Reseive a letter
                                             from you for I felt confident that tare ware several on
                                             the road to me from you but I was doomed to
                                             disapointment for not a letter from any on to me. But I
                                             still live in hopes that the next mail will bring me
                                             tidings of the Girl I left behind me.
                                             I do not want you to think I blame you for a moment for
                                             my ill lick of not getting letters for I belieive you have written but the letters
                                             have been lost by som careless Post
                                                  Mastess. but I must tell you
                                             about the Joke about the neck tie you sent me. Bent was
                                             verry curious to know who sent it to me I told him it
                                             was Ileza. [illegible] Old Alx Plumess Girl and I never saw a fellow cough so in my
                                             life. So I told him I did not want him to say any thing
                                             about it to any but he sed it was to good to keep and
                                             as quick as super was ready he commenced to tell the
                                             neck tie Girl as he cald her. And he told her higth
                                             width breadth and looks in general and how she walks
                                             and how old Nancy talks and it was great fun for the
                                             boyes for they like to get a joke on every mail they
                                             ask me if I don't think that she has plaid
                                             of[f] on me. I tell them if I do not get a letter by
                                             the next mail that I shal Destroy my self Then they
                                             want to know what they will do with the nect tie I well
                                             them to give it to me as a winding sheet. But I have
                                             written Enough for this time I have written mutch more
                                             than 
                                                  11The regiment spent the
                                                  first days of 1865 in 
                                                  Nashville
                                                  , 
                                                  Tennessee
                                                  , and then moved onward to 
                                                  Waterloo
                                                   awaiting further orders. They left
                                                  March 22 under the command of General James
                                                  Harrison Wilson, on the beginning of what would
                                                  later be known as Wilson's Raid.
                                             
                                              I expected to when
                                             I comenced but the boys ware all out on drill and I was
                                             lonsom and I thought I would wright to you once more
                                             and see if I could get an answer . but I must close
                                             hoping to hear from you soon
                                        
                                             until then I Remain you Obt. Servnt
                                             S B Seely
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             
                                                  Macon Ga
                                             May 10th 1865
                                        
                                        Miss E. A. Hicks
                                        I take this opertunity of wrighting you a few lines it
                                             being the first I have had since we marched from 
                                                  East Port
                                             . [
                                                  Mississippi
                                             ] I can not give you a full detail of our
                                             raid into the interior of Dixey. But I will try to give
                                             you an out line sketch We left near 
                                                  East Port
                                              on the 22nd of March the first three dayes
                                             of march we had but very little fighting. Then we met
                                             Gen. [Nathan Bedford] Forrest, [William H.] Jackson and
                                             others of the Reb Clan and we pitched into them and
                                             just whipped the very Confederate life out of them. in
                                             fact we never aloud them to check our march I saw a
                                             good deal of fighting but this trip beat them all We
                                             would drive their [illegible] force 30 and 40 milds a
                                             day and at last they went into their works at 
                                                  Selma
                                              [
                                                  Alabama
                                             ] (which ware verry strong) and we charged
                                             this works and completely routed them capturing every
                                             thing the City had in it with 27 field pieces and
                                             others making over 100 cannons in all. after resting we
                                             went to 
                                                  Mount Gumery
                                              [
                                                  Alabama
                                             ] but their then Rebs has jist left so we
                                             had no fight their then we marched for this place. When
                                             we arived at this they said their was an armistis so we
                                             tool possession of the city and every thing has Been
                                             quiet since.12 The Rebles all say
                                             they are over powrd but not whipped but are all willing
                                             to give it up as a bad job. you can now see blue coats
                                             and Brindle grey Jackets walking arme in arm through
                                             the city merry as Brothers. but I will close hoping
                                             this may find you in the Best of health and injoying
                                             yourself the Best in the world as Perfect to be at home
                                             [illegible] I will not wright much but I have the more
                                             to tell you when I get homeuntil then I remain as ever
                                             your Friend
                                                  12
                                                  Selma
                                                   fell to Wilson's superior
                                                  forces on April 2. After a week in the city,
                                                  Wilson moved on to capture 
                                                  Montgomery
                                                   on April 12, 
                                                  Columbus
                                                  , 
                                                  Georgia
                                                  , on April 16, and 
                                                  Macon
                                                   on April 20. In 
                                                  Macon
                                                  , Wilson and his troops finally
                                                  learned of the surrender at 
                                                  Appomattox
                                                   on April 9.
                                             
                                        
                                             S. B. Seely
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        
                                             Camp Big Springs 
                                             Nashville, Tennessee 
                                        
                                        June 18th 1865
                                   
                                   Miss Elt. Hicks Friend
                                   I drop you a few lines this Sabeth morning hoping it will be
                                        the last I shal have an opertunity of addressing to you.
                                        until I have the plesure of seeing you and having the
                                        plesure of conversing with you, as of old. But now for the
                                        next. We left 
                                             Macon
                                        , 
                                             Ga
                                         on the 24th of May and after a long and tedious
                                        march of over 600 milds arrived at 
                                             Nashville
                                         on the 15th of June. it was verry hot and dusty
                                        but the old and tride vet of our Regt. Bore it like heros as
                                        they are with the prospect of Home before them after their
                                        long exile from home and friends and all so. I can not tell
                                        how soon I shal get home but I want if posible to spend the
                                        fourth of July next in 
                                             Greene
                                        . But I can not tell at present how long it will
                                        be before we are ready for muster out We had to send to 
                                             Indiapolis
                                         for our muster in role before we can make out
                                        the roles to be musterd out and it wiill be ten dayes at
                                        least befor we are ready for muster out.
                                   I could wright all day telling you about the great Wilson Raid
                                        and my war adventuress on the Raid but I will not for when I
                                        get home you will hear enough of war if you have not
                                        already. I will close by telling you that I have not
                                        reseived a letter from 
                                             Greene Co.
                                         bearing a later Date than March 20th We got
                                        mail every Day Since we can here but none for poor me. But I
                                        shal soon be at home then I will see whose falt it is
                                   
                                        Until then I remain your friend
                                        S. B. Seely
                                   
                              
                         
                    
               
               
               
                    RESEARCH NOTE New Findings on the Earliest Written Uses of
                         "Hoosier"
                    JONATHAN CLARK SMITH
                    I recently ran across what is (to the best of my knowledge) the earliest
                         known printed instance of the word
                         "hoosier," and just eight days later than the date of the
                         Murdock-Tipton letter,1 the earliest known instance in
                         manuscript. The item is in the Vincennes Gazette of
                         February 19, 1831, and it reads, in its entirety, as follows:
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        Mr. Editor:
                                        As an example of the astonishing increase of population
                                             in our state, which has taken place in a few years, and
                                             within my own observation, I send you the following
                                             statement of the representation in 1826 and in 1831, of
                                             the country north, east, and west of 
                                                  Vigo county
                                             , at the different periods. 
                                        
                                             Jonathan Clark Smith is professor of English at
                                                  Hanover College, 
                                                  Hanover
                                                  , 
                                                  Indiana
                                                  . His article "Not Southern
                                                  Scorn but Local Pride: The Origin of the Word Hoosier and 
                                                  Indiana's
                                                   River Culture" appeared in
                                                  the June 2007 issue of the IMH.
                                             1Smith, "Not
                                                  Southern Scorn," 186. G.S.
                                                  Murdock's February 11, 1831, letter to
                                                  Gen. John Tipton references a new steamboat which
                                                  was to be named "The 
                                                  Indiana
                                                   Hoosier."
                                             INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (September 2008)
                                                  C 2008, Trustees of Indiana University.
                                        
                                        
                                        In 1824, 
                                                  Parke
                                              and 
                                                  Vermillion
                                              had one representative; 
                                                  Putnam
                                             , 
                                                  Montgomery
                                             , and the country north, north-east, west,
                                             and northwest, one representative; the whole of the
                                             above, with 
                                                  Vigo
                                              attached, one senator - In all,
                                             representatives, 2, senators, 1=3.
                                        By the bill lately passed both branches of the
                                             legislature, and approved 30th Jan. 1831, the same
                                             district of country has, representatives, 14 -
                                             senators,7=21.
                                        The "Hoosher" country is coming out,
                                             and the day is not far distant, when some states which
                                             have hitherto looked upon us as a kind of outlandish,
                                             half-civilized race, will have to follow in our train.
                                             - Let the "Half-horse,
                                             half-alligator" coun [sic] country look to
                                                  it.2
                                        
                                             Yours, &c.
                                             RACKOON
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
                    This item is consistent with my findings published in the June 2007 IMH, that "hoosier" was initially
                         identified with farmers on the Wabash, while the final sentence gives
                         further credence to the explanation in the October 14, 1833, Cincinnati Republican that the word began life as a fighting
                         term.
                    Another interesting document of which I was hitherto unaware was brought to
                         my attention by Steve Haller of the Indiana Historical Society. It is
                         Virtulon Rich, Western Life in the Stirrups (ed. Dwight
                         L. Smith, 
                              Chicago
                         : The Caxton Club, 1965), a journal of a trip west to 
                              Indiana
                          and 
                              Illinois
                          in the spring and summer of 1832. Unfortunately, as the editor
                         notes, it is impossible to pinpoint the exact date at which Rich
                         transcribed his travel notes into this smoothly written manuscript; my
                         guess would be the winter of 1832-1833 which he spent in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . The journal uses the word "Hoosher" much
                         more freely than anything else I have seen from 1832, and that would be
                         consistent with the "hoosier fever" in 
                              Indianapolis
                          in January, 1833, in the wake of the Finley poem.3 In any event, Rich also gives a history of the word
                         (p. 71), almost certainly earlier than the 
                              Cincinnati
                          one, and consistent with it: "The people of 
                              Indiana
                          are called "Hooshers" - a name which is said
                         to 
                              2The false start on
                                   "country" comes at the end of a line, and is
                                   just a printer's error.
                              3Smith, "Not Southern
                                   Scorn," 191. On January 1, 1833, the Indiana Journal published a poem, by John Finley,
                                   which described a "Hoosiers nest," i.e., a
                                   primitive log cabin.
                         
                         have originated with an 
                              Indiana
                          ruffian, who having severely flogged a 
                              Kentucky
                          boatman of superior size, jumped up' and exclaimed,
                         'I am a hoosher."'" This seems to be
                         the most commonly accepted story of the word's coining among
                         people who were actually alive at the time.
               
               
               
                    REVIEWS
                    The American Midwest An Interpretive
                         Encyclopedia Edited by Richard Sisson, Christian Zacher, and
                         Andrew Cayton(
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press for Ohio State University, 2007. Pp.
                         1892. Index, maps, tables, illustrations. $75.00.)
                    It is a rare and rewarding experience to read a place-based reference work
                         focused on the entire midwestern region of the 
                              United States
                         . Ordinarily, such works deal with the nation as a whole or
                         with an individual state, so that readers encounter either too little
                         sub-national detail or too much inconsistency in coverage from one state to
                         another. The American Midwest: An Interpretive
                              Encyclopedia is thus a welcome and instructive volume, which
                         treats the vernacular Midwest - an area covering much of the upper
                              Mississippi - Ohio - Missouri River drainage basin from the Appalachian
                              Plateaus on the east to the Great Plains on the west - as a coherent
                         and unified region.
                    The front dustjacket reproduces Grant Wood's painting of Herbert
                         Hoover's birthplace in 
                              West
                                   Branch
                         , 
                              Iowa
                         , viewed as though from a low-flying aircraft, beckoning the
                         reader to join an extended and informative tour of an area far more diverse
                         than even long-time residents may realize. The tour is directed by
                         distinguished leaders - an advisory board of nearly two dozen who in turn
                         assembled as many general and consulting editors, as well as scores of
                         writers and illustrators who have profusely depicted the processes,
                         patterns, and peoples of the American Midwest in prose, poetry,
                         photographs, tables, and maps. Writers and illustrators are bylined at the
                         ends of their entries; editors, advisors, and donors are listed in the
                         opening pages. The important role of the donors is made further apparent in
                         the low price of the volume.
                    The encyclopedia is organized into five major sections: "Landscapes
                         and Peoples," "Society and Culture,"
                         "Community and Social Life," "Economy and
                         Technology," and "Public Life." Each major
                         section is in turn partitioned into between three and nine subsections and
                         begins with one 
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (September 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University.
                         
                         or two pages of "Section
                         Contents" which list the entries in that section and its
                         subsections. A casual reader who scans the brief "General
                         Contents" listing at the beginning of the book is unlikely to
                         grasp the depth and span of the volume; a detailed three-column index
                         extends over nearly the last 100 pages as an aid to more careful readers.
                         Unfortunately, the editors did not include a list of maps, illustrations,
                         tables, and photographs, and, although the helpful
                         "Reader's Guide" promises a "credits
                         index at the end of the volume" (p. xiii), this reviewer was
                         unable to find a credits list of the 275 photographs and 25 reproductions
                         of paintings and drawings in the volume. Nevertheless, many readers will
                         find familiar sights illustrated in this reference work. This reviewer was
                         delighted to find a photograph showing the Main Street of his
                         wife's hometown of 
                              Crawfordsville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , circa 1930 (p. 1077), and another reproducing an aerial view
                         of Memorial Stadium at his home institution of the University of Nebraska
                         (p. 869). A guide to maps and tables would have been a helpful aid for
                         readers interested in geographical patterns or numerical quantities.
                    Readers interested in the literature and art of the Midwest will be
                         especially pleased with the work. Indeed, the Society and Culture section -
                         which includes subsections on language, folklore, literature, arts, sports
                         and recreation, and media and entertainment - comprises nearly four-tenths
                         of the entire volume. But history, political science, and geography are
                         also well represented. The treatments of rural, small town, and
                         metropolitan settlement patterns and lifestyles are rewarding, as are the
                         discussions of labor movements, politics, religious and cultural
                         institutions, and science and technology. By this reviewer's
                         count, there are about 200 longer overview essays and nearly 1500 shorter
                         topical entries in this wonderful volume. The American
                              Midwest: An Interpretive Encyclopedia deserves to be included in
                         the collections of public libraries, middle- and high school libraries, and
                         college and university libraries throughout the Midwest. The
                         book's low list price should make it an affordable addition to the
                         private libraries of interested residents of the region it depicts. All of
                         the many people who worked on this fine volume deserve a round of applause
                         from us Midwesterners. In short, this volume warrants an overall rating of
                         "very highly recommended."
                    J. CLARK ARCHER is professor of geography in the Department of
                         Anthropology and Geography, University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
               
               
               
                    Federal Justice in 
                                   Indiana
                               The History of the United States District Court for
                              the Southern District of Indiana By George W. Geib and
                         Donald B. Kite Sr. (
                              Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007. Pp. xix, 335.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                    This book, the first official history of the U.S. District Court for the
                         Southern District of Indiana, was produced at the request of the historical
                         society of that court. The authors are, respectively, an academic who
                         specializes in 
                              Indiana
                          history, and an 
                              Indianapolis
                          attorney who earlier served as a clerk for the judges of the
                         Southern District. Although not part of a series, the book appears at a
                         time when numerous works on midwestern state legal and judicial history are
                         being produced, including those comprising the Ohio University Press series
                         on Law, Society, and Politics in the Midwest. The book is easily accessible
                         to its intended audience of both attorneys and interested laypersons.
                    This volume is organized as a chronological account of the court's
                         history, beginning in 
                              Indiana's
                          territorial period under the guidelines spelled out in the
                         Northwest Ordinance of 1787, then proceeding with the court's
                         institution under the U.S. Constitution, and its development, growth, and
                         changes during the almost two centuries of 
                              Indiana
                          statehood. The authors focus on several specific topics in
                         each period: administrative structure and operations, court personnel,
                         political influences, evolution of 
                              Indiana
                          law, and significant and interesting topics with which the
                         court has dealt. Their sources include court records, oral histories of
                         various judges, and a variety of secondary materials.
                    The authors present a clear picture of the growth and administrative
                         operation of the federal courts in 
                              Indiana
                         . They provide biographical material about judges and other
                         major staff people who have served the court, including political factors
                         which frequently influenced their selection. They explain how the operation
                         of the court has evolved and expanded, leading to the creation of the
                         separate northern and southern districts and to the development of altered
                         responsibilities in such areas as bankruptcy and the responsibilities of
                         magistrates.
                    Providing adequate treatment of the many varied topics which have occupied
                         the court's time over two hundred years was obviously a major
                         challenge for the authors. They touch on such wide-ranging issues as land
                         disputes, controversies raised by the Civil War, strikes and other labor
                         controversies, desegregation during the civil rights movement, political
                         corruption, prisoners' rights, pornography, and the posting of the
                         Ten Commandments in public places, culminating with an account of a well-
                              publicized controversy over
                         ownership of stolen international art. The list is not, nor can it be,
                         comprehensive. The authors have selected an interesting variety of topics,
                         without making claims that these are necessarily the most important issues
                         with which the court dealt at any given time.
                    This volume fills a need for a well-organized documentation of the federal
                         courts in 
                              Indiana
                         . It presents in a single volume a wealth of information about
                         the court's personnel, operation, and evolution during its first
                         two hundred years. One could wish, however, that the authors had done more
                         to place the court's work in the context of the larger history of
                         the federal court system, particularly in comparison to the evolution and
                         work of other federal courts in the Midwest.
                    REBECCA S. SHOEMAKER is professor of history emerita, Indiana State
                         University, 
                              Terre
                                   Haute
                         .
               
               
                    Worthy of the Gospel of ChristA History of the Catholic
                              Diocese of 
                                   Ft.
                                        Wayne
                              -
                                   South
                                        Bend
                              By Joseph M. White (
                              Huntington
                         , 
                              Ind.
                         : Our Sunday Visitor Publishing, 2007. Pp. xiv, 609.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $29.95.)
                    Joseph M. White undertakes the ambitious task of presenting a sweeping
                         narrative history of the Roman Catholic diocese of 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         -
                              South
                                   Bend
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . In the main, albeit not exclusively, the author draws on an
                         enormous and varied collection of secondary sources in his effort to
                         demonstrate how a small pioneer mission effort grew into a substantive
                         religious presence in the state. The book is divided into four parts: the
                         early initiatives of frontier Catholics, the establishment of the 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                          bishopric, the administrative and cultural expansion of the
                         first half of the twentieth century, and the forces that propelled the
                         diocese through the second fifty years of the century and into the next.
                         Subjects range from the religious feelings of Potawatomi and Miami Indians
                         to the formation of the Catholic press; the outbursts of anti-Catholicism
                         in the state; the impact of the powerful University of Notre Dame at 
                              South
                                   Bend
                         ; the modern challenges fueled by liturgical, financial, and
                         societal changes; and the national upheaval resulting from the
                         church's responses to sexual abuse by certain clergy members. With
                         such a plethora of topics - both interwoven and unrelated - an almost
                         overwhelming number of people, church agencies, and local parishes inhabit
                         each chapter.
                    White does an outstanding job of presenting this lengthy institutional record in a straightforward, easy-to-
                         follow style. The account will have special import for those acquainted
                         with 
                              Indianapolis
                         , 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         , 
                              Gary
                         , 
                              Huntington
                         , or any of the many other 
                              Indiana
                          sites mentioned. The material about enclaves of ethnic
                         Catholics - Poles, Croatians, Germans, Hungarians, Irish, Italians,
                         Lithuanians, Romanians, and Belgians - shows how, where, and why a rich
                         assortment of European groups, along with indigenous families, built 
                              Indiana's
                          Catholic population. Further, this work meshes with current
                         trends in Catholic history, for it avoids applauding only male clerics of
                         high position, embracing all laborers in the vineyard. For example, the
                         laity is rightly credited with the vibrancy of the Knights of Columbus,
                         Daughters of Isabella, National Council of Catholic Women, National Council
                         of Catholic Men, and Christian Family Movement. The indefatigability of
                         sisters in the founding and staffing of schools and hospitals is
                         prominently described. Accordingly, the book gives witness to the deeds of
                         those men and women - secular and religious - who committed themselves to
                         securing sacred and social services for the Catholic population of 
                              Indiana
                         , and it is certain to be an invaluable reference tool for
                         anyone interested in the religious or ethnic history of the state.
                    In addition, the author touches on high-profile, controversial subjects,
                         tracing a diocesan clash with a teachers' union, the dismissal of
                         a popular basketball coach, and, in recent years, the financial and social
                         repercussions caused by sexual misconduct charges leveled against some
                         priests. Nonetheless, the book, which includes an afterword by sitting
                         bishop John M. D'Arcy, is generally laudatory, as reflected in the
                         first part of the title: Worthy of the Gospel of Christ.
                         Thus, in its celebration, the text sidesteps the critical assessments that
                         would have added greater insights into some events or the actions of
                         certain key figures. This is disappointing, but the positive aspects of
                         White's meticulously researched and chronologically organized
                         monograph remain considerable. This book demonstrates the value of placing
                         religion at the center of any study that explores the ways in which
                         American communities formed and reformed, evolving over many years. White
                         gives the story of 
                              Indiana
                          Catholicism a place in the history of the state and in the
                         larger context of the growth of the country. This work is a significant
                         addition to regional, religious, and American history.
                    ANNE M. BUTLER is emeritus professor of history, Utah State University, 
                              Logan
                         . She has published extensively on the subject of Roman
                         Catholic nuns and sisters in the American West and is completing a
                         monograph on that subject.
               
               
               
                    From Pioneering to Persevering Family Farming in 
                                   Indiana
                               to 1880 By Paul Salstrom (
                              West
                                   Lafayette
                         , 
                              Ind.
                         : Purdue University Press, 2007. Pp. xii, 208. Illustrations,
                         notes, index, bibliography. Paperbound, $23.95.)
                    "Hoosiers still care about family farming," asserts Paul
                         Salstrom, author of From Pioneering to Persevering: Family
                              Farming in 
                                   Indiana
                               to 1880. This, despite the fact that notably absent
                         from the historiography of 
                              Indiana's
                          past is a book-length study of the history of the
                         state's agricultural development and rural life, particularly as
                         they relate to 
                              Indiana's
                          beginnings. Good relevant sub-regional and community studies
                         have been done, including Stephen A. Vincent's Southern Seed, Northern Soil (1999) and Richard
                         Nation's At Home in the Hoosier Hills (2005).
                         Salstrom hopes that his broadly conceived history of 
                              Indiana
                          agriculture will close that gap; however, given the growth and
                         dynamism of the fields of rural and agricultural history and the important
                         connections being made to larger themes and narratives of
                         nineteenth-century history, the project looms as a tall (but not
                         impossible) order to fill.
                    With few hints to the reader as to its organization and thematic development,
                              From Pioneering to Persevering is, quite simply, a
                         very basic story about the considerations that influenced and characterized
                         nine- teenth-century family farming in 
                              Indiana
                          (and the Midwest, in general). The study ends in 1880 to avoid
                         dealing with the sweeping changes of the twentieth century. The single
                         expressed question that absorbs Salstrom is why family farming was so
                         economically viable in early 
                              Indiana
                         ; his rather reductionist answer is that the world of family
                         farming disintegrated with "the eventual invention of efficient
                         corn harvesters" (p. 106).
                    Salstrom's chapters explore Native American agriculture before and
                         after European contact; why settlers came and where they settled; the
                         origins of the Corn Belt; pioneering in central, western, and northern 
                              Indiana
                         ; agricultural pioneer Solon Robinson; competitive market
                         development; and a final assessment. Topical coverage is overwhelmingly
                         based upon secondary sources, most of which the author accepts
                         uncritically. Salstrom also tends to make some rather outlandish
                         statements, such as the assertion that "Euro-Americans'
                         land hunger certainly went back" to the fall of the Roman Empire
                         (p. 35). The reader is hard-pressed to make that connection - and others in
                         this book, such as links between Midwest agriculture and Thomas
                         Jefferson's role in the Declaration of Independence, and also
                         between the region's farms and Europe's Dark Ages.
                    Where Salstrom succeeds is in outlining a narrative of the state's
                              history that precedes
                         Euro-American settlement and that demonstrates the multiple influences
                         asserted by Native Americans, the French, and the British. Histories of
                         farming in the early Midwest need to address the complexities and
                         consequences surrounding native-white relations, including evolving federal
                         Indian and land policies, as they most certainly figured prominently in the
                         pioneering experiences. The model for this type of scholarship is R.
                         Douglas Hurt's The 
                                   Ohio
                               Frontier (1996). Salstrom also provides a very
                         useful bibliography of both early 
                              Indiana
                          and the emerging Midwest. Essentially, those generally
                         interested in 
                              Indiana
                          history may be satisfied here; those seeking a more
                         complicated or detailed history of the state's early agriculture
                         will not.
                    GINETTE ALEY is assistant professor of history, University of Southern
                         Indiana, 
                              Evansville
                         . Her most recent publication is "A Republic of Farm
                         People: Women, Families, and Market-Minded Agrarianism in 
                              Ohio
                         , 1820s-1830s," 
                                   Ohio
                               History (Spring 2007).
               
               
                    Triumph at the Falls The Louisville
                              and Portland Canal By Leland R. Johnson and Charles E.
                         Parrish (
                              Louisville
                         , 
                              Ky.
                         : Department of the Army Corps of Engineers, 2007. Pp. viii,
                         340. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Free.)
                    Leland R. Johnson and Charles E. Parrish have succeeded in capturing the
                         story of designing and building the two-mile Louisville and Portland Canal
                         passage around the Falls of the Ohio. Examining the
                         canal's history in fifty-year segments beginning in the early
                         nineteenth century, they present the positive side of the planned
                         obsolescence of these canal structures, built and maintained to ensure safe
                         travel over dangerous rapids and falls that have challenged Indian and
                         pioneer canoes, flatboats and steamboats, and today's improved
                         inland river craft.
                    The chapters trace the challenges and advancements of five engineering
                         phases, beginning with 
                              Kentucky's
                          victory over 
                              Indiana
                          when both were vying to build a canal around the Falls. The
                         authors recount the successive structures on the site, from a series of
                         three locks completed in 1830 to aid in the safe navigation of inland river
                         commerce to the present-day twin locks, measuring 1,200 feet in length,
                         that accommodate towboats maneuvering massive, multiple barges through the
                         canal.
                    The authors also examine the ideas and leadership which led to the success of
                         the project. Topics include: the work of dedicated citizens; the transfer
                         of responsibility to the U.S. government and to the Corps of Engineers; advancements in larger and more
                         powerful boat design; the effects of wars, floods, and financial failures;
                         engineering improvements; federal policy shifts; the canalization of the
                              Ohio River;
                         cooperative efforts of public-private water power development; and the
                         concern of environmental changes caused by dam and lock improvements. The
                         authors demonstrate why periods of change and growth of inland river
                         commerce, occurring approximately every fifty years, necessitated the
                         enlargement of locks and navigation facilities at the
                              Falls.
                    Readers interested in 
                              Indiana
                          canals will appreciate Josiah White's 1818
                         "bear trap" dam invention: "two long panels or
                         leaves that collapsed one atop the other-opening valves to admit river
                         water beneath the panels caused them to rise and dam the river; closing the
                         valves allowed the panels to fall to the bottom" (p. 158). Other
                         figures profiled in the canal's history include contractor Robert
                         English, whose 1841 patent for a floodgate based on a
                         "trapdoor" design resembled the operational design of the
                         Wabash & Erie Canal Clear Creek Floodgate, removed in 1999 by the
                         Indiana Department of Transportation. Major Stephen H. Long's
                         contributions to the Louisville and Portland Canal are detailed and mention
                         is made of his work on Wabash & Erie dams, possibly referring to
                         his patent for a 
                              Carroll
                                   County
                          towing path bridge which crossed the canal over the Wabash River. The
                         authors write about Sylvanus Lothrop, who, after selling his interest in
                         the Louisville and Portland Canal, left to design a "Wabash River lock and
                         dam," (p. 37) probably at 
                              Pittsburg
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . The book also details the failure of the Fort Wayne and
                         Southern Railroad's 1852 plan - supported by Indiana Governor
                         Joseph Wright and the 
                              Louisville
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         , City Council - for a marine line extending to 
                              Jeffersonville
                          and then tunneling under the Falls to
                         connect with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. 
                              Indiana
                          history buffs may reconsider one possibility for their
                         state's nickname: the authors could find no existing record of
                         Samuel Hoosier, sometimes credited for the moniker.
                    Additional maps would have aided in following the progress of the canal
                         through its several expansions and proposed improvements both on 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Indiana
                          shores. Triumph at the
                              Falls is readable, informative, and
                         well-researched, and the authors have contributed significantly to the body
                         of work on American canals. An 1867 report on the condition of the
                         Louisville and Portland Canal by auditor James Guthrie could also describe
                         the efforts of Johnson and Parrish: "It affords me pleasure to
                         report the existence of important and decided evidences of plans well
                         matured[,] material selected with judgment, and work executed in the most
                         substantial manner."
                    
                    THOMAS E. CASTALDI lives in 
                              Fort
                                   Wayne
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , where he is Allen County Historian. He is the author of three
                         books about the Wabash & Erie Canal, the host of northeast 
                              Indiana
                          public radio's "On the Heritage
                         Trail," a historian for the Wabash & Erie Canal
                         Interpretative Center at 
                              Delphi
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , and the moderator of the Wabash & Erie Canal Towpath
                         Trail project.
               
               
                    Jewish Communities on the Ohio River A History
                         By Amy Hill Shevitz (
                              Lexington
                         : University Press of Kentucky, 2007. Pp. xi, 266.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $50.00.)
                    Amy Hill Shevitz takes as her subject Jewish life in twenty-four towns lying
                         along the Ohio
                              River between 
                              Pittsburgh
                          and 
                              Cairo
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , including 
                              Madison
                         , 
                              Evansville
                         , and 
                              Mount
                                   Vernon
                          in 
                              Indiana
                         . Quintessentially urban people, Jewish immigrants and their
                         descendants tended to make their new American homes in large cities.
                         Accordingly, both scholarly and popular interpretations of the Jewish
                         experience are conditioned by its predominantly urban character. Until
                         recently, Jewish communities outside of large population centers attracted
                         little scholarly concern. Except for 
                              Cincinnati
                         , 
                              Louisville
                         , 
                              Pittsburgh
                         , 
                              Evansville
                         , and 
                              Wheeling
                         , the communities in Shevitz's study were small to
                         midsized towns that presented unique challenges to their Jewish citizenry.
                         Lee Shai Weisbach addressed these issues in his definitive Jewish Life in Small-Town 
                                   America
                               (2005), published shortly before Shevitz completed
                         her manuscript. Shevitz's book thus plows through some freshly
                         cultivated territory. Still, the reader interested particularly in Jewish
                         life in any of these twenty-four Ohio River communities will find
                         informative accounts of local history, lay and religious personalities,
                         economic strategies, religious observance, communal organizations,
                         anti-Semitism, and the social and economic linkages between the
                         communities.
                    Ten relatively brief chapters discuss the evolution and decline of Jewish
                         life along the Ohio
                              River from the earliest settlement of German and Alsatian
                         Jews in the nineteenth century to the present. The post-World War II
                         period, Shevitz contends, set in motion irreversible social and economic
                         changes to which Jews outside of metropolitan centers could not adapt in
                         the long term. Outmigration from town to city, declining Jewish birth
                         rates, a corresponding atrophy in synagogue membership in small and
                         midsized towns, the changing farm economy, and the inability of merchants
                         and commercial establishments (the
                         economic core of Jewish life in the twenty-four towns) to compete with
                         national retail chains doomed the Jewish future in communities of modest
                         size.
                    Shevitz argues that her twenty-four communities constitute a distinct region
                         where the germination of middle-class American values and emergent
                         pluralism dovetailed with the values and aspirations of the first
                         German-Jewish settlers. Jewish newcomers in the region set their course on
                         fitting into their communities by participating in civic life and earning
                         the respect of their non-Jewish neighbors. Shevitz suggests that Judaism
                         was thus transformed into an American religion. Yet these and other
                         features are not unique to the region, as they were reproduced across the 
                              United States
                          wherever Jewish settlements emerged. German Jews, emancipated
                         from European ghetto life by political changes in the German states and
                         embracing the liberalizing trends of Reform Judaism, realized their goal of
                         incorporation into the social and economic life of the new country. Eastern
                         European Jews, arriving later in the nineteenth century, also managed,
                         though less smoothly, the adjustment process both within and beyond the
                         locales the author examines.
                    Commendably, Shevitz observes that anti-black violence was a much more
                         powerful force than anti-Semitism, even with the deepening vilification of
                         Jews in the 1920s and 1930s. She cites 
                              Evansville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , and 
                              Cairo
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , in particular as places where racism against African
                         Americans "diverted much attention from the Jews" (p.
                         168). One could easily extend these examples. Of the 1893 dedication of
                         Temple Israel's new building on the main street of 
                              Paducah
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         , Shevitz writes that it "announced the Jews'
                         central place in 
                              Paducah's
                          life" (p. 121). In that year, as well as in 1892, two
                         black men were lynched in 
                              Paducah
                         , and two more suffered the same fate in 1916. These atrocities
                         remind us that narratives of immigrant success, such as those Shevitz
                         effectively documents, co-existed with a grim history of anti-black
                         brutality and the gross inequities of a racial caste system that also
                         flourished in the Ohio Valley.
                    JACK GLAZIER, professor of anthropology at Oberlin College, 
                              Ohio
                         , is currently completing a book on African American life and
                         race relations in 
                              Hopkinsville
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         .
               
               
               
                    Making the Voyageur World Travelers and Traders in the
                              North American Fur Trade By Carolyn Podruchny (
                              Lincoln
                         : University of Nebraska Press, 2006. Pp. x, 414.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $29.95.)
                    This is the first scholarly book about the contract workers who literally
                         propelled the fur trade into the far western and most northern reaches of 
                              Canada
                          as the teamsters of the waterways. It surpasses Grace Lee
                         Nute's entertaining and anecdotal 1931 classic, The
                              Voyageur, in both depth and breadth of coverage.
                         Podruchny's multidisciplinary study reflects the most recent
                         themes, trends, and theories in analyzing historical evidence from the
                         perspectives of class and character, gender and geography, economics and
                         ethnicity. She covers all aspects of the personal and professional lives of
                         the voyageurs employed in the 
                              Montreal
                         -based fur trade from the time of the British conquest of 
                              Canada
                          in 1763 to the merger of the rival North West and
                         Hudson's Bay companies in 1821.
                    Regrettably, Podruchny omits the equally significant voyageurs of earlier
                         eras, as well as those who plied the Missouri, Mississippi, Illinois, Wabash, and Ohio Rivers and other
                         areas south of the Great
                              Lakes. A large number of voyageur brigades participated in
                         the Canadian fur trade over several generations - perhaps 3,000 boatmen at
                         one time in the early nineteenth century - but the author's
                         limited focus prevents a much-needed analysis of the extensive cross-border
                         contacts among personnel and companies in the many fur wests of North
                         America. Nonetheless, Podruchny has performed a Herculean task in
                         extracting information about the highly mobile and mostly illiterate
                         voyageurs from a variety of documentary sources, and her study should
                         stimulate similar research for the fur trade in 
                              Indiana
                         , which is long overdue.
                    While careful scholarship promotes the discovery of previously ignored data,
                         it can also produce written syntheses that are so cautious as to be
                         inconclusive. Podruchny's repetitious narrative is replete with
                         tentative insertions of "might" and
                         "possibly," and she often poses questions, rather than
                         providing definitive answers based on her accumulated data. For example,
                         she is frustratingly noncommittal about the voyageurs' diet,
                         failing to resolve contradictory eyewitness evidence that they ate about
                         eight pounds of meat per day but usually had slim rations and sometimes
                         faced starvation.
                    Her main goal - to demystify and demythologize the voyageurs'
                         "world" - is only partially accomplished, since those
                         indentured servants lived in several worlds, separated by
                         vast distances and changing over many decades. Although the voyageurs sang
                         their legendary songs not because they were
                         "happy-go-lucky," but to stay awake, to make their physically taxing
                         work more endurable, and to pace the strokes of their canoe paddles, other
                         myths are not so easily dispelled. These frontier
                         "proletarians" rarely saved their earnings or showed much
                         interest in upward mobility; they played tricks on one another and deserved
                         their reputation as heavy drinkers; and their frequent sexual contacts with
                         Indian women only sometimes led to a kind of "marriage,"
                         and that for but a short time. The author succeeds in demonstrating the
                         voyageurs' varied skills and physical endurance, but explanations
                         more convincing than masculinity theory are still needed if readers are to
                         understand the strong, strange fascination that lured them into the most
                         inaccessible regions of the continent with the harshest climate and
                         greatest dangers.
                    Readers who want an author to demonstrate authority in providing definitive
                         conclusions may find this book a frustrating journey - too much paddling
                         without reaching a destination.
                    J. FREDERICK FAUSZ, associate professor of history, University of
                         Missouri - St. Louis, has published on the fur trades in
                         seventeenth-century Chesapeake Bay and in eighteenth-century 
                              Missouri
                         . He was the organizer and program chair of the 2006 North
                         American Fur Trade Conference held in 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                         .
               
               
                    1812 War with 
                                   America
                               By Jon Latimer (
                              Cambridge
                         , 
                              Mass.
                         : Harvard University Press, 2007. Pp. xiv, 637. Illustrations,
                         notes, bibliogra- phy, index. $35.00.)
                    For almost two centuries, American historians have striven to invest the War
                         of 1812 with enough significance to lift it out of the general obscurity in
                         which it languishes. In the process, they tend to interpret the conflict as
                         a consolidation of national independence, a follow-up to the War for
                         Independence, and an opportunity for Americans to prove that their new
                         republic was here to stay. Surely this is the most common theme in the
                         stories that Americans told themselves about the War of 1812. The
                         best-known tales relate the victories of Oliver Hazard Perry's
                         hastily constructed flotilla on Lake Erie in September 1813 and Andrew
                         Jackson's improvised defense of 
                              New
                                   Orleans
                          in January 1815. This celebratory interpretation has always
                         been problematic, however. It requires turning the ineptitude of the
                         American government, as well as a string of military disasters that
                         climaxed in the burning of the indifferently defended national capital in the late summer of 1814,
                         into evidence of the enduring power of a democratic spirit that resides
                         more in the will of its people than in its political institutions.
                         Americans have worked hard to include the War of 1812 in a national
                         narrative about the progress of American freedom. Now comes the experienced
                         military historian Jon Latimer to suggest that in so doing scholars and the
                         general public have missed the conflict's true significance.
                    Latimer writes from an avowedly British perspective. If his Americans
                         sometimes seem like one-dimensional stock characters, well, turnabout is
                         fair play. Latimer brilliantly locates the War of 1812 within the
                         Napoleonic Wars of the era. Some historians have gestured at this global
                         perspective; Latimer makes the most of it. In 1812: War with 
                                   America
                              , the British are professionals confronting difficult
                         challenges created by the huge expanse of the North American theater and
                         the necessity of playing second fiddle to events on the other side of the
                              Atlantic.
                         Latimer does not shy away from criticizing the decisions of British
                         officers on the ground in North America, including the dubious (and
                         ultimately fatal) choices of Major-General Sir Edward Pakenham in the
                         lead-up to the Battle of New Orleans. Nevertheless, 1812 offers an
                         important corrective to the usual American perspective on the enemies of
                         the republic. Even when Latimer is blatantly partisan - in describing the
                         burning of 
                              Washington
                          as a just response to the destructive behavior of American
                         forces, he cannot resist saying that the immediate impact was to create
                         "among the unfortunate inhabitants a feeling of shock and
                         awe" (p. 318)- his judgments are smart and sound.
                    Latimer's greatest achievement lies in making a plausible case for
                         counting the War of 1812 as a victory for the British, who thwarted the
                         major initial American objective: the conquest of 
                              Canada
                         . According to Latimer, the origins of the war lay in American
                         belligerence, while its most important outcome was the survival - not of
                         the 
                              United States
                          - but of 
                              Canada
                         . Canadians find it easier to commemorate the war because they
                         can celebrate it as a spirited and ultimately successful fight against
                         American aggression.
                    Historiography aside, most readers will simply enjoy reading 1812: War with 
                                   America
                              . Latimer writes with confidence and flair. He is
                         particularly adept at breathing life into his characters and at organizing
                         the details of so many separate actions into a coherent whole. The result
                         is a lively book that is by far the most compelling account of the War of
                         1812 I have ever read.
                    ANDREW CAYTON, Distinguished Professor of History at Miami University, 
                              Oxford
                         , 
                              Ohio
                         , is co-author with Fred Anderson of The Dominion
                              of War: Empire and Liberty in North America, 1500-2000
                         (2005).
               
               
               
                    The Black Hawk War of 1832 By Patrick J. Jung (
                              Norman
                         : University of Oklahoma Press, 2007. Pp. xiv, 275.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
                    Between April and August 1832, the Sauk warrior, Black Hawk, and 1,100 of his
                         supporters crossed the Mississippi River and returned to their homelands in 
                              Illinois
                          in defiance of a federal order. Their decision to question the
                         legality of the treaties of 1804 and 1816 resulted in the deaths of
                         approximately 520 members of the "British" band of the
                         Sauk tribe, along with a significant number of Fox (Meskwaki), Kickapoo,
                         and Winnebago (Ho-Chunk) allies. In contrast, 77 white civilians,
                         volunteers, and regulars lost their lives. After the British
                         band's initial victory at 
                              Stillman's Run
                         , along the Rock
                              River above modern-day 
                              Dixon
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         , the Sauk lost three successive battles in southern and
                         southwestern 
                              Wisconsin
                         , culminating in the devastating loss of life at the Battle of
                         Bad Axe, above 
                              Prairie du Chien
                          on the Mississippi River. In just five months, both the Sauk and
                         American settlers dehumanized each other in a war that regularly featured
                         the mutilation of the dead and wounded. And in the end, the war became the
                         last act of military resistance to federal Indian policy for the Algonquian
                         peoples of the Midwest, as both the Native allies and enemies of the Sauk
                         resigned themselves to the Indian Removal Act.
                    In a war that featured an over-abundance of intimate violence, it sometimes
                         becomes difficult to discern the motivations of those involved. This is
                         especially the case for Black Hawk and his many supporters. Their attempt
                         to return to 
                              Saukenuk
                          and the rich cornfields that they had cultivated since moving
                         there in 1767 seems like a fool's errand. Historian Patrick J.
                         Jung tells us that Black Hawk's decision to return was informed by
                         the Sauk's misunderstanding of the Treaty of Ghent, which they
                         believed defended their right to their homelands. Sauk diplomatic missions
                         to British outposts in 
                              Ontario
                          led some to believe that the British might come to their aid.
                         Finally, Black Hawk followed the advice of a Winnebago Prophet named
                         Wabokieshiek, who suggested that the Sauk might be able to remain at 
                              Saukenuk
                          if they remained peaceful.
                    Unfortunately, the context of American settlement is largely missing from
                         Jung's analysis. For example, the proliferation of American lead
                         miners, the growing monopoly of the American Fur Company, and the presence
                         of squatters on their lands deeply antagonized the Sauk. Rather than
                         addressing these crucial elements of the story, Jung argues that
                         "Black Hawk should have been more objective in his analysis of the
                         situation," and given up his claims in 
                              Illinois
                         .
                    
                    These and other conclusions assume that Black Hawk shared the same
                         epistemological vision of the world as the settlers who fought against him
                         and the historians who have written about him ever since. Yet one could
                         argue that the Black Hawk War, and the madness that its combatants
                         exhibited toward each other, illustrates the profound cultural differences
                         that increasingly shaped relations between American Indians and Europeans
                         on the lands once characterized as a cultural "middle
                         ground."
                    In The Black Hawk War of 1832, both the Sauk and their
                         famous leader are victimized by bad advice, their own irrational
                         decision-making, and an "anti-Americanism" that, for
                         Jung, are analogous to the pan-Indian resistance movements led by Little
                         Turtle, Blue Jacket, and Tecumseh between the Northwest Indian War and the
                         War of 1812. Yet there are important limits to these connections, including
                         the fact that the primary aim of Black Hawk and his people was to return to
                         the village that had sustained them for generations. In contrast, both the
                         Northwest Indian War and the War of 1812 witnessed much larger numbers of
                         multi-ethnic combatants who fought to preserve a vast territory and an even
                         wider variety of cultures.
                    The intimate violence that characterized the Black Hawk War resulted in a
                         primary source record that is fraught with prejudices, misunderstandings,
                         and self-serving attempts to shape subsequent memories of the war. In this
                         book, Jung does not situate these sources in a varied enough context to
                         provide his readers with multiple perspectives on one of the more important
                         and troubling events in American history.
                    STEPHEN WARREN is assistant professor of history, Augustana College, 
                              Rock
                                   Island
                         , 
                              Illinois
                         . He is the author of The Shawnees and Their
                              Neighbors, 1795-1870 (2005).
               
               
                    More Than Neighbors: Catholic Settlement and Day
                              Nurseries in 
                                   Chicago
                              , 1893-1930 By Deborah A. Skok (
                              DeKalb
                         : Northern Illinois University Press, 2007. Pp. x, 241. Notes,
                         bibliography, index. $38.00.)
                    Using her 2001 University of Chicago dissertation as a base, Deborah A. Skok
                         brings together the methods and concerns of women's history,
                         Catholic history, urban history, immigration history, parish history, and
                         demography into a single meticulously researched and engaging work.
                    The acknowledgements recog- nize the giants of Progressive Era
                         women's history, especially Catholic women. Skok spent
                         considerable time researching at Catholic institutions, usually a sign that
                         the resources have been largely ignored by non-Catholic historians. Skok
                         correctly calls work on Catholic
                         settlement houses "largely invisible" (p. 3). Elucidating
                         this otherwise marginalized history is clearly the purpose and value of
                         this book. Catholic settlement houses did not follow the "classic
                         pattern" by which such institutions evolved, the author notes, but
                         emerged from three different sources - individual charity, organizational
                         effort, or parish support. Skok organizes the book according to these
                         approaches rather than adopting a less useful chronological
                         consideration.
                    Skok highlights the differences between Protestant and/or non-sectarian
                         settlement endeavors and Catholic efforts. Both in their promotional
                         published fiction and in the reality of their work, Protestant rescuers
                         were people who descended below (in a gesture of noblesse oblige) to pull
                         people up; in the Catholic experience, both in fiction and fact, the
                         rescuers were part of the existing community. Common religious affiliation
                         brought the Catholic settlement workers closer to their charges than were
                         the upper-class Protestant women who performed the same services. Skok
                         emphasizes that these early Catholic social service efforts also provided
                         opportunities for women to increase their influence in the church and to
                         move beyond Catholic social and political circles.
                    Skok identifies Pope Leo XIII's 1891 encyclical on social issues as
                         a driving force behind laywomen's efforts to assist the Catholic
                         poor. Among Catholic Chicagoans, the settlement work that followed in the
                         wake of the document was about helping co-religionists - unlike Protestant
                         facilities, Catholic kindergartens were multi-ethnic and not segregated by
                         class. Protestant and secular reformers were moving away from nurseries,
                         but Catholics, more likely to be wage-laboring mothers, continued to open
                         daycares which often evolved into larger, more diverse entities with a
                         greater array of services. In their work, Catholics preferred the word
                         "charity" to "reform" due to the
                         negative connotations of the latter in the Catholic community, but that
                         changed as laywomen started to professionalize their social work.
                         Competition with Hull House and similar entities likely sped the
                         professionalization process.
                    Skok's work expands the two-dimensional view of competition between
                         Protestant missionaries and selfless Catholic nuns for the allegiance of
                         new immigrants. By focusing on Catholic laywomen, Skok reveals that their
                         competition for influence was often not Protestant women but Catholic
                         clergy, Catholic editors, Socialists, anti-clericals, Italian nationals,
                         city politicians, and padrones.
                    Skok also considers the methods Catholic women employed in their efforts to
                         mold behavior, especially that of young people. These efforts yielded great
                         fruit in providing employment opportunities and an otherwise unknown
                         personal autonomy and fulfillment for residents. Many of the programs would become permanent
                         departments of parishes and functions of diocesan charities - all made
                         possible through the "substantial boost from below"
                         provided by settlement workers (p. 178).
                    This book's setting is 
                              Chicago
                         , a common site for studies of American Catholicism of this
                         era. More work remains to be done on other midwestern cities such as nearby 
                              Gary
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , as well as on cities with less substantial immigration, such
                         as 
                              Indianapolis
                         . Future studies might also consider the aftermath of the
                         integration of upwardly mobile Catholic women. The move of Catholics into
                         non-sectarian charities was often an indication of their general acceptance
                         into the macro-culture and a loss of their distinctive identity. It seems
                         that acculturation was the result, regardless of who piloted the
                         effort.
                    MICHAEL D. JACOBS is assistant professor of history at the University of
                         Wisconsin-Baraboo. His research focuses on American ethnicity, diversity,
                         and intolerance movements.
               
               
                    Hull-House Maps and Papers A Presentation of
                              Nationalities and Wages in a Congested District of 
                                   Chicago
                              , Together with Comments and Essays on Problems Growing
                              Out of the Social Conditions By Residents of Hull-House, a
                         Social Settlement. Introduction by Rima Lunin Schultz (
                              Champaign
                         : University of Illinois Press, 2007. Pp. 178. Illustrations,
                         notes, appendix, index. $50.00.)
                    Citizen Jane Addams and the Struggle for
                         Democracy By Louise W. Knight (
                              Chicago
                         : University of Chicago Press, 2005. Pp. xvi, 582. Photographs,
                         abbreviations, notes, bibliography, index. $22.50)
                    Hull-House Maps and Papers was a groundbreaking text
                         published in 1895 by the residents of Hull House and edited by Jane Addams.
                         They described and measured group patterns associated with immigrants,
                         working conditions, specific laborers, labor unions, social settlements,
                         and art. Women's moral agency was central to their use of social
                         science to improve democracy and the lives of the disenfranchised. This
                         book is a towering statement by early sociologists, especially women, and
                         an outstanding example of the application of knowledge in the
                         community.
                    Hull House residents continued to map cultural, social, political, and  demographic information in their
                         neighborhood for the next forty years. As the neighborhood was increasingly
                         studied (e.g. by occupations, family size, housing, milk quality, food use,
                         and epidemiology), the findings were charted and hung on the walls of the
                         settlement house for the neighbors to see and discuss.
                    The maps included in this reprint revealed to the people of the neighborhood
                         the patterns of their lifestyles and the implications of these patterns for
                         community issues and interests. Repeatedly, Hull-House residents and
                         neighbors initiated campaigns for major social changes as a result of this
                         information: e.g., establishing the eight-hour day, the minimum wage, and
                         the elimination of child labor. They also worked in numerous social
                         movements on behalf of labor unions, women's suffrage, and arts
                         and crafts.
                    Rima Lunin Schultz writes a clear, concise, and powerful introduction to the
                         text. She documents the significance of the book over the intervening years
                         and shows why it continues to be important. The combination of the original
                         text and Schultz's introduction make the book accessible to the
                         general public, just as the residents intended. Book clubs and study groups
                         could enjoy discussing this book and comparing its findings to contemporary
                         patterns of immigration, urbanization, and social problems. Midwestern
                         cities - for example, 
                              Indianapolis
                          and 
                              South
                                   Bend
                          - exhibit many patterns similar to those found in 
                              Chicago
                          in the past. I also recommend the book for levels of school
                         ranging from high school civics and social science courses through graduate
                         university training.
                    Louise W. Knight raises similar questions about citizenship and community in
                         her biography of Jane Addams. Knight documents Addams's life from
                         her birth in 1860 until the achievement of her "half
                         life" in either 1898 (p. 1) or 1899 (p. 409), what Knight calls
                         "the years of her becoming" (p. 1). Citizen:
                              Jane Addams and the Struggle for Democracy is premised on the
                         argument that Addams was raised in a Christian evangelical home with a
                         moral absolutist perspective: "By 1898 she had rejected the
                         individualistic, absolutist, benevolent ethics of her father and her own
                         class in favor of what she perceived to be the working-class ethic of
                         cooperative justice, which she found less selfish and
                         self-righteous" (p. 4).
                    Knight takes almost two hundred pages to arrive at the opening of Hull House.
                         Using archival information and extensive citations from Addams's
                         classic text Twenty Years at Hull-House (1910), Knight
                         labors to portray Addams and her family as rigid and emotionally cold. I
                         find neither her evidence nor argument compelling. Addams's early
                         life was filled with warm remembrances of the gentleness of her father, and
                         this affection and close relationship are lacking in Knight's
                         portrayal of them.
                    The vital Hull-House neighborhood and the whirl of activities surrounding
                         Addams become muted and boring in this
                         text. Knight's book is tedious and labored, oriented to supporting
                         her view of Addams as having been neither a true democrat nor citizen until
                         1899.
                    One need only read Hull-House Maps and Papers to find
                         Knight's cursory analysis of the book (pp. 326- 31) lacking in
                         depth and insight. I recommend reading the lively and humane Twenty Years at Hull-House to begin to understand Addams, her
                         neighbors and friends, and the generous worldview that makes 
                              America
                          a democracy.
                    MARY JO DEEGAN is professor of sociology, University of Nebraska -
                         Lincoln. She teaches and publishes on the history of sociology, and her
                         books include Race, Hull-House, and the University of Chicago:
                              A New Conscience Against Ancient Evils (2003).
               
               
                    Looking Beyond the Dixie Highway Dixie Roads and
                              Culture Edited by Claudette Stager and Martha Carver (
                              Knoxville
                         : University of Tennessee Press, 2006. Pp. xxi, 298. Maps,
                         illustrations. $48.00.)
                    This volume examines the history and roadside culture of the Dixie Highway,
                         one of the nation's first comprehensive road systems, designed in
                         the early twentieth century to provide better access from the Midwest to
                         the emerging tourist industries of the South. This handsome and
                         well-organized collection begins by exploring the local histories of the
                         road's planning and development in the period between the two
                         world wars. The subsequent ten chapters examine the roadside material
                         culture that emerged in the following decades.
                    
                              Indiana
                          entrepreneur Carl Fisher spearheaded the development of the
                         Dixie Highway in 1915. Fisher's contributions as businessman and
                         Good Roads proponent are the subject of the first chapter by Suzanne
                         Fischer, "The Best Road South: The Failure of the Dixie Highway in 
                              Indiana
                         ." Fisher's insistence that the highway
                         incorporate existing local roads and tourist attractions gave the road its
                         character as a major tourist route, but also lead to its meandering
                         structure and to its separate eastern and western divisions.
                    Martha Carver addresses the quandaries of managing money and mountains while
                         constructing the 
                              Tennessee
                          portion of the roadway. The material problems and marketing
                         potential of the Florida
                              Everglades are the topic of Carrie Scupholm's
                         chapter. Jeffrey L. Durbin and Christie H. McLaren detail the conflicting
                         priorities of locals and tourists in the development of better roads in 
                              Georgia
                          and 
                              Arkansas
                         , respectively. Sara Amy Leach explores the role of women in
                         merging preservation with highway
                         construction. The material of the highway itself is the focus of Walter S.
                         Marder's "Pleasing the Eye: Brick Paving and the Dixie
                         Highway in the 
                              Sunshine
                                   State
                         ."
                    Shifting to the cultural landscapes along the highway, R. Stephen
                         Sennott's survey of urban hotels and Katherine Fuller's
                         analysis of Populuxe motels in 
                              Myrtle
                                   Beach
                         , 
                              South
                                   Carolina
                         , explore differing classes of roadside accommodations. Blythe
                         Semmer and co-authors Ruth Nichols Keenoy and Robbie D. Jones explore the
                         regional shifts in lodging in the Great Smokey Mountains and 
                              Tennessee's
                          disappearing recreational caves. Some of the strongest
                         chapters in the collection address the idiosyncratic developments in
                         roadside culture. Scupholm's study of drive-in churches and
                         Carver's portrait of Harrison Mayes's religious roadside
                         advertisements astutely explore the tensions derived from rampant
                         commercialism and deep faith in the South. Karl Puljak develops a typology
                         of the roadside fireworks shack, and Kimberly D. Hinder examines the
                         cultural roots and development of 
                              Florida's
                          tourist towers. Kevin J. Patrick details the effects of
                         tourism on the natural landscape by tracing the shift from nature as
                         wilderness cathedral to nature as recreation and diversion. The collection
                         concludes with Robert M. Craig's "Pilgrimage Route to
                         Paradise: The Sacred and Profane Along the Dixie Highway," which
                         shows the endurance of the Streamlined Moderne aesthetic of the road in
                         today's commercial landscape.
                    This collection contributes to our understanding of early roadside
                         development and culture, while it calls on us to appreciate and preserve
                         these fading landscapes. The book grew out of the work of the Society for
                         Commercial Archeology, which is "the oldest national organization
                         that encourages the study of the unique historic significance of
                         twentieth-century commercial landscape and culture." The
                         contributors, most of whom are historians of architecture or historic
                         preservation professionals, blend academic and professional concerns. While
                         there is little in the way of analysis of the segregation and hostility to
                         outsiders that occurred during this period in southern culture, this
                         collection offers a call to remember a roadside suffused with history and
                         character rather than homogeneity and monotony.
                    NICOLE KING is assistant professor of American Studies at the University
                         of Maryland Baltimore County and author of "Behind the Sombrero:
                         Identity and Power at South of Border, 1949-2001" in Dixie Emporium: Tourism, Foodways, and Consumer Culture in the
                              American South (2008).
               
               
               
                    Selling the Race Culture, Community, and Black 
                                   Chicago
                              , 1940-1955By Adam Green(
                              Chicago
                         : University of Chicago Press, 2007. Pp. xiv, 306.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $35.00.)
                    In Selling the Race, Adam Green examines Black 
                              Chicago
                          and its role in shaping a national consciousness among African
                         Americans. Green argues that blacks in 
                              Chicago
                          during and after World War II developed an imagination and a
                         sense of group life that reconfigured existing views of politics and racial
                         identity - changes that remain influential today. For Green, blacks, at
                         this time and in this city, engaged the challenges of modernity in an
                         unprecedented fashion.
                    The substance of Green's analysis is found in five chapters. Chapter
                         one investigates the history of the 1940 American Negro Exposition in 
                              Chicago
                         , the first black-organized world's fair. Green pays
                         particular attention to the role of the event's principal
                         organizer, Claude Barnett, founder of the Associated Negro Press. He points
                         out that, although the exposition failed to attract sufficient attendees or
                         revenue, the event offered evidence of Black 
                              Chicago's
                          awareness of its pivotal place in American life.
                    Chapter two examines the centrality of Black 
                              Chicago
                          in the nation's popular music. Green argues that 
                              Chicago
                          blacks gained significant leverage in a music business that
                         became more decentralized after 1940. He explores this thesis through brief
                         investigations of 
                              Chicago
                          - connected music icons Mahalia Jackson, Louis Jordan, Muddy
                         Waters, and Willie Dixon, and through a consideration of 
                              Chicago's
                          role in black-appeal radio and its central progenitor, disk
                         jockey Al Benson.
                    Chapter three examines the history of the Associated Negro Press, the black
                         wire service spawned by Barnett. For Green, the press and
                         Barnett's politics further affirmed 
                              Chicago's
                          national importance as a bridge to broader developments in
                         film and television and to new political strategies.
                    Chapter four investigates the emergence and impact of the Chicago-based,
                         black-owned publishing company, Johnson Publications, and its Ebony Magazine. Green writes that Ebony firmly
                         embodied the central role of Black 
                              Chicago
                          in shaping a national black consciousness and highlighting the
                         growing importance of race in a maturing market economy.
                    The fifth chapter theorizes about the impact of the 1955 brutal murder of
                         fourteen-year-old Chicagoan Emmett Till by 
                              Mississippi
                          white supremacists. For Green, 
                              Chicago's
                          role in universalizing this event affirmed the city's
                         ascendance as the cultural capital of Black 
                              America
                         .
                    Though informative, Green's study has some notable flaws. His claim
                         that events in Black 
                              Chicago
                         
                          between 1940 and 1955 were
                         unprecedented is untenable. Green's analysis is neither
                         comparative nor significantly evaluative of relevant prior phenomena, as
                         illustrated by the superficial chapter on music. Green ignores the
                         nationalizing role of entertainment circuits and the leverage maintained by
                         black unionized musicians during earlier periods when certain technological
                         innovations in sound reproduction were not available.
                    While Green writes with a sense of certainty, he erroneously asserts that 
                              Chicago's
                          Savoy Ballroom was a theater and that it and the Savoy
                         Ballroom in 
                              New
                                   York
                          were opened or owned by the Balaban and Katz corporation.
                         Further, while the opening of the Parkway Ballroom in the 1940s no doubt
                         offered some competition to the Regal Theater, Green's assertion
                         that the structure rivaled the Regal, suggests that he does not understand
                         the differences in the size and social function of these two
                         institutions.
                    Other tenuous claims indicate that Green's book should be read with
                         caution. Throughout the book, Green references sociologist E. Franklin
                         Frazier's The Negro Family in the 
                                   United
                                        States
                               (1939) and Black Bourgeoisie
                         (1957) as the bases of characterizations Green claims to debunk. However,
                         Green routinely misrepresents Frazier's ideas, ignoring, for
                         example, Frazier's positive predictions regarding the black
                         family, and confusing Frazier's views with those of sociologist,
                         later Senator, Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Nonetheless, Selling
                              the Race (particularly chapters one and three) is a useful
                         contribution to existing histories of Black 
                              Chicago
                         .
                    CLOVIS E. SEMMES is professor of African-American studies at Eastern
                         Michigan University, 
                              Ypsilanti
                         . He is author of Cultural Hegemony and
                              African-American Development (1992); Roots of
                              Afrocentric Thought: A Reference Guide to Negro Digest/Black
                         World, 1961-1976 (1998); and The Regal
                              Theater and Black Culture (2006).
               
               
                    Rivers Revealed Rediscovering 
                                   America's
                               WaterwaysBy Jerry M. Hay(
                              Bloomington
                         , Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. 308. Illustrations, maps.
                         $19.95.)
                    When the Delta Queen Steamboat Company created the job of
                         "Riverlorian," it made an important contribution to the
                         field of public history. For over three decades, Delta Queen Riverlorians
                         have entertained and edified passengers with their unique blend of academic
                         knowledge and hands-on expertise. Jerry Hay, a 
                              Floyds
                                   Knobs
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , river rat and longtime Delta Queen employee, has transcribed
                         his enjoyable and respected oral presentations into this book about the
                         role of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys in
                         American history and culture.
                    "Rivers Revealed," Hay begins,
                         "offers a blend of river adventure stories with emphasis on the
                         lessons I've learned from my mistakes, the sights I've
                         seen, and the people I've met while boating. I've written
                         this book while working aboard steamboats as a Riverlorian or traveling on
                         my own paddle wheel houseboat" (p. 2). Hay's lifetime
                         growing up along and sailing 
                              America's
                          western rivers is evident on every page of this book. So too
                         is his knowledge of folklore and his skill at storytelling.
                    Although chapter 22 is entitled "Potpourri," the
                         book's previous twenty-one chapters also reflect this methodology.
                         After relating his boyhood fascination with rivers ("Boy in a
                         Johnboat"), Hay takes the reader on a route as meandering and, at
                         times, as fascinating as the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. Navigation
                         advice ("Reading the River," "River Guide
                         Books," "Navigable River Knowhow") precedes and
                         follows human-interest stories ("Rescue from a Dock,"
                         "Gilligan the Goose," "Grand Excursion
                         2004," and "The Great Duck Race"), which are
                         interspersed with historical essays ("The Evolution of
                         Riverboats," "River Royalty") and a glossary
                         ("Language of the Rivers"), which is juxtaposed with a
                         transcribed folktale ("The Ghost of the Mary Greene"),
                         combined with eclectic riveriana ("Top Ten River Towns,"
                         "Steamboat Passengers," "The Restless
                         River"), and the telling of various personal river experiences
                         ("Canoeing Misadventures," "Bizarre River
                         Experiences," "Nine Days on a Towboat"), and
                         more. There is no chronological or topical organization.
                    Hay writes well; his prose flows along the book's winding course.
                         Ordinarily, one would assume that a collection like this was composed of
                         previously published newspaper and magazine articles, but this does not
                         appear to be the case. Hay has been telling many of these stories for years
                         on the Delta Queen, Mississippi Queen,
                         and American Queen, and on the several PBS, National
                         Geographic, and History Channel television programs that appear on his
                         crowded resume. In Rivers Revealed, Hay's oral
                         tales are served up in lively prose.
                    "River travel allows us to see a part of our world that few people
                         experience," write Jerry Hay. "It is my hope that anyone
                         reading this book will never look at the river the same way again"
                         (p. 2). River historians, folklorists, and buffs will enjoy and learn from
                              Rivers Revealed: Rediscovering 
                                   America's
                               Waterways. It can sit on the shelf, ready for
                         reading in long or short installments.
                    MICHAEL ALLEN is professor of history and American Studies, University
                         of Washington, Tacoma. His books include Western Rivermen,
                              1763-1861: Ohio and Mississippi Boatmen and the Myth of the Alligator
                              Horse (1990), A Patriot's History of the 
                                   United
                                        States
                              , co-authored with Larry Schwikart (2004), and Congress and the West, 1783-1787 (forthcoming).
               
               
               
                    Mysteries of SexTracing Women and Men through American
                              HistoryBy Mary P. Ryan(
                              Chapel
                                   Hill
                         : University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. 432. Notes,
                         bibliography, index. $37.50.)
                    Mysteries of Sex is a remarkable synthesis that covers vast
                         chronological, geographical, and topical terrain. Mary P. Ryan's
                         intriguing analysis ranges from the sixteenth century to the opening of the
                         twenty-first, exploring subjects as varied as the European conquest of the
                         Americas, the emergence of domesticity, slavery and race, citizenship,
                         work, social and sexual revolutions, and immigration. Her bibliography
                         alone, amounting to nearly fifty pages, is testament to the enormity of her
                         accomplishment.
                    Seeking to unravel the "process whereby the distinction between male
                         and female is created, adapted and repeatedly recreated" (p. 3),
                         Ryan conceives of her project as a series of "mysteries"
                         for the historian-detective to solve. As chapter titles such as
                         "Where Have the Corn Mothers Gone?" "What is the
                         Sex of Citizenship?" and "Where in the World is the
                         Border between Male and Female?" indicate, Ryan (like many of the
                         scholars on whose work she draws) sees "mysteries of sex"
                         as central, not tangential, to American political, social, and economic
                         history.
                    The greatest strength of Ryan's book (and there are many) is its
                         ability to persuasively piece together the longue dure,
                         and hence to illuminate important continuities where other scholars
                         perceive dramatic change - and vice versa. In the process, Ryan boldly
                         transgresses traditional chronological boundaries. Her chapter on wage
                         work, "How Do You Get from Home to Work to Equity?," is a
                         case in point. By tracing the history of women wage earners (a story
                         usually told in more truncated segments) from 1900 to 1960, Ryan challenges
                         interpretations that stress women's "sudden"
                         entrance into the paid labor force. "New Women" of all
                         classes flocked to the workforce in the 1910s and 1920s, seeing wage
                         earning not as drudgery, but as the key to social and economic
                         independence. Indeed, Ryan argues, employment had become so commonplace and
                         so desirable that these same women eagerly reentered the labor force when
                         opportunity or economic need arose. The typical World War II
                         "Rosie" was not the young novice wage earner of popular
                         imagination, but rather a middle-aged married woman. Raised in families in
                         which working wives and mothers were the norm, her daughters - hardly the
                         unhappy full-time housewives portrayed in Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique (1963)- worked after marriage in
                         large numbers (married women accounted for 60 percent of all female wage
                         earners in 1960). As their ranks expanded dramatically in the 1960s and 1970s, it was wage-earning women -
                         simultaneously exhilarated by their relative economic independence and
                         frustrated with unequal pay and limited career opportunities - who made
                         second-wave feminism a mass movement. Conversely, Ryan's analysis
                         of immigration, which compares turn-of-the-century Eastern and Southern
                         Europeans to a second, post-1965 wave of Asians and Latinos, emphasizes
                         change. Rejecting simplistic descriptions of immigrant families as rigidly
                         and unchangingly patriarchal, she shows that by the late twentieth century,
                         Korean, Vietnamese, Mexican, and Filipina wives and mothers were nearly as
                         likely to hold jobs as were their native-born counterparts.
                    A brief review can only hint at the richness of this book. Mysteries of Sex is best read as a series of loosely connected
                         essays that do not necessarily add up to a whole. Nor should they, for as
                         Ryan persuasively demonstrates, sex, gender, and sexuality operate on
                         multiple levels and in multiple contexts. In the end, I'm not
                         quite sure that her title is apt. Perhaps because Ryan so convincingly
                         solves the puzzles she puts before the reader, little sense of mystery
                         remains. While the case is far from closed, Mysteries of
                              Sex is likely to remain the most compelling and definitive
                         interpretation of its subject for decades to come.
                    WENDY GAMBER is professor of history at Indiana University, Bloomington.
                         She is the author, most recently, of The Boardinghouse in
                              Nineteenth-Century 
                                   America
                               (2007) and is currently at work on a book titled
                         "The Notorious Mrs. Clem: Crime and Culture in the Gilded
                         Age."
               
          
          
               
               
               
               
          
     
