
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 102, Issue 2, pages 89-182. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:102+issue:2+year:2006&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            From Internment to Indiana: Japanese Americans, the War Relocation Authority, the Disciples of
                    Christ, and Citizen Committees in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            NANCY NAKANO CONNER
            On the eve of World War II, Indiana possessed almost no Japanese population and certainly nothing
                    that could be called a Japanese American community. The attack on Pearl Harbor brought this tiny and
                    obscure segment of the state's population into sudden prominence. On that fateful day, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star managed to find two Japanese Americans to interview: Professor Toyozo W
                    Nakarai, a teacher of Semitic languages and literature at 
                        Butler
                     University, and Harry Sasaki, operator of a coffee and tea stand in the City Market.
                    Both proclaimed their support for the 
                        United States
                     government, and, as the Star headline read, "Will Fight if
                    Necessary, Say 2 Long Residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."1
            
            
               Nancy Nakano Conner is director of grants and director of metadata and collaborations at the
                        Indiana Humanities Council, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . She holds a Ph.D. in English from UCLA and an M.A. in history from IUPUI. Her
                        thesis was entitled "Forming a Japanese American Community in Indiana:
                        1941-1990" (Indiana University, 2005).
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 8, 1941. On the day after the Pearl Harbor attack, Nakarai
                        submitted a letter of resignation to the dean of the College of Religion, who accepted the
                        letter, tore it into small pieces, and said no more about it. Nakarai continued on the faculty
                        at the college (later the Christian Theological Seminary) and became a prominent scholar of the
                        Dead Sea Scrolls after their discovery in 1947. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star Magazine, September 12, 1965; Keith
            
            
            That Nakarai and Sasaki were among a very small number of Japanese in Indiana in the early 1940s was
                    the end result of a historical pattern that dates back to the late nineteenth century. As the
                    American population diversified, Hoosiers held to an anti-immigrant position that was noticeably out
                    of step with the expanding and increasingly urban Midwest. Even as most Indiana residents looked
                    inward and tried to resist intrusive change from outside, however, a few had reason to take a much
                    more transnational view. Among them were religious denominations with ties to the international
                    scene through their missionary operations. I will show how a Protestant denomination with its
                    international headquarters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Disciples of Christ, took a leading role in a well-coordinated, national public
                    and private effort to move Japanese Americans out of internment camps and resettle them in towns and
                    cities across the nation's heartland. While the number of resettlers in Indiana would
                    remain small in relation to nearby states, the efforts of this dedicated group resulted in a tenfold
                    increase in the Hoosier state's Japanese American population by the end of World War II.
            The Asian presence in Indiana had never been very conspicuous. Twenty-nine persons of Chinese descent
                    resided in the state in 1880; a decade later their numbers were augmented by a handful of Japanese
                    (see Table 1). The increased presence of Japanese immigrants here and elsewhere coincided with the
                    beginning of the "new" or second wave of immigration that also brought growing
                    numbers of southern and eastern Europeans to America during the late nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries. Most of the Japanese settled on the West Coast; those who came to the Midwest followed
                    the pattern that James 
                        Madison
                     notes of other second-wave immigrants, who settled in other states of the Old Northwest
                    in much greater numbers than they did in Indiana. By 1920 Indiana had the largest proportion of
                    white, native-born citizens in the nation.2
            
            
               Watkins, Christian Theological Seminary, 
                                Indianapolis
                            : A History of Education for Ministry (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 2001), 277. Sasaki operated his 
                            Japan
                         Tea Company from 1912 until his death in 1971, after which his widow continued the
                        business. He was well known in the market area for his black felt hat, smoking pipe, and sense
                        of humor. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, January 19, 1971.
               
                  2 James H. 
                            Madison
                        , The Indiana Way: A State History (1986; 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1990), 173; 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana Through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State
                            and Its People, 1920-1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 3. Histories of Indiana written at mid-century allude to, but do
            
            
            
               Table 1 Indiana Japanese and Chinese Population, 1880-19403
               
               
                  
                  Japanese
                  Chinese
               
               
                  1880
                  0
                  29
               
               
                  1890
                  18
                  92
               
               
                  1900
                  5
                  207
               
               
                  1910
                  38
                  276
               
               
                  1920
                  81
                  283
               
               
                  1930
                  71
                  279
               
               
                  1940
                  29
                  208
               
            
            Economic factors account, in part, for Indiana's relatively low proportions of Japanese and
                    other new immigrants in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 
                        Indianapolis
                     lagged behind other large midwestern cities both in its total population and in the
                    total number of industrial jobs. Ball State professor of social sciences Robert L. LaFollette
                    rejoiced in the pages of this journal in 1929 that Indiana had all but missed "the
                    pollution of the stream of political and social intelligence" by the influx of Roman
                    Catholic southern and eastern Europeans into the region. He attributed this anomaly to
                    Indiana's comparative lack of economic opportunity and heavy industry, to its early land
                    settlement by old-stock Europeans, and to its lack of a hinterland that would feed a central
                        metropolis.4
            
            More recent historians have identified the anti-foreign attitude typified by LaFollette as a reason
                    in itself that immigrants tended to bypass Indiana-Hoosiers had a reputation as backward and
                    nativist. The state's 
                  not attempt to explain, the low number of immigrants in Indiana during the period of
                            industrialization around the turn of the twentieth century. John D. Barnhart and Donald E
                            Carmony, Indiana from Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 298-300; Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 365, 368-69.
                  
                     3 U.S., Eleventh Census, 1890: Vol. 1, Population, 474; U.S., Twentieth Census, 1980: Vol. 1, Population, 16-26.
                  
                     4 Robert L. LaFollette, "Foreigners and their Influence on
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, 25 (March 1929), 22-23.
                            LaFollette (1894-1967) was a relative of 
                                Wisconsin
                             Senator Robert M. LaFollette.
               
                     upland southern and New 
                        England
                     settlers, according to James J. Divita, were traditionally wary of any trend that could
                    bring diverse or multicultural elements into their environment. In 1907 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of Trade called for the restriction of foreign immigration, a sentiment shared by
                    other civic groups such as the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club. 
                        Madison
                     observed that "the belief that Hoosiers were generally alike, that they
                    avoided extremes, that they held on to past traditions, that they represented what was typical and
                    perhaps even best about America-all this provided a leitmotif running through the history of the
                    state in the period 1920-1945."5
            
            The story of the small but significant influx of Japanese Americans into a state with so little
                    historical record of welcoming new immigrant groups begins in the aftermath of the Japanese attack
                    on Pearl Harbor in December 1941. On February 19, 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed
                    Executive Order 9066, authorizing the military to establish restricted zones and to exclude any and
                    all persons from these areas. By the end of the year the army would evacuate the entire population
                    of Japanese and Japanese Americans-approximately 120,000 people- from 
                        California
                    , western 
                        Oregon
                    , western 
                        Washington
                    , and southern 
                        Arizona
                    . The internees went first to local assembly centers and then to ten internment camps in
                    eastern 
                  California, Arizona, Arkansas, 
                            
                                Colorado
                            
                        , Idaho, Utah
               , and Wyoming. Forty years later, in 1983, the Commission on Wartime
                    Relocation and Internment of Civilians would conclude that the evacuation and internment were not
                    justified by military necessity but were prompted rather by race prejudice, war hysteria, and a
                    failure of political leadership.6
            
            Few Americans at the time, however, raised their voices against such anti-foreign, even xenophobic,
                    sentiments. Conspicuous among the dissenters to Roosevelt's action were representatives of
                    the multidenominational home missions establishment. For several decades, 
                  
                     5 James J. Divita, "Without Tenement: The State of Indiana
                            Ethnic History," in The State of Indiana History 2000, ed. Robert
                            M. Taylor, Jr. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2001), 91-124; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Through Tradition and Change, 6.
                  
                     6 U.S., Department of the Interior, War Relocation Authority, WRA: A Story of Human Conservation (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1946), viii, 13; Roger Daniels, Asian America: Chinese and
                                Japanese in the 
                                    United States
                                 Since 1850 (1988; Seattle, 1995), 214-17, 338. Upon the passage of the
                            Civil Liberties Act of 1988, the U.S. government issued a formal apology and a redress
                            payment to all surviving internees.
               
                    
                    
                  Street scene, 1943, Manzanar Relocation Center, 
                                California
                             Photograph by Ansel Adams, Courtesy Library of Congress
                American churches had been sending missionaries to 
                        Japan
                    , resulting in a cadre of active and returned missionaries of many denominations. In
                    1908, the Home Missions Council of North America organized in 
                        New York
                     City for interdenominational cooperation in matters of population growth, declining
                    rural areas, and immigrant welfare.7 In the days after Pearl Harbor, Dr. Frank
                    Herron Smith, superintendent of the Japanese Methodist churches in 
                        California
                    , took the initiative in coordinating their efforts to stop what they feared would be
                    the mass evacuation of Japanese Americans. Dr. Mark A. Dawber, executive secretary of the Home
                    Missions Council, hurried to the West Coast, where he commissioned Smith's group to
                    establish the Protestant Church Commission for 
                  
                     7 Everett L. Perry, "National Council of Churches,"
                            in Encyclopedia of Religion and Society, ed. William H. Swatos, Jr.
                            (Walnut Creek., Calif., 1998), 321. A January 1943 letterhead of the Home Missions Council
                            described it as "The Interchurch Agency of Home Missions Boards and Societies of
                            Twenty-Three Denominations," including Methodist, Presbyterian, the Society of
                            Friends, National Baptist, African Methodist Episcopal, African Methodist Episcopal Zion,
                            and Christian Methodist Episcopal.
               
                     Japanese Service, with the Rev. Gordon K. Chapman, formerly a
                    Presbyterian missionary in 
                        Japan
                    , as its executive secretary. Smith and Chapman-along with Galen M. Fisher, a former
                    Y.M.C.A. secretary in 
                        Japan
                    ; W. C.James, a local 
                        Quaker
                    ; and Dr. C. A. Richardson, a secretary of the Methodist board-called on General John L.
                    DeWitt, the Western Defense Commander, to urge him to hold hearings for individual Japanese,
                    offering church buildings and returned missionaries to act as interpreters. DeWitt refused to meet
                    with the group personally and sent a substitute in his place.8
            
            When Congressman John H. Tolan arrived on the West Coast to hold investigative hearings on the
                    Japanese American issue, he found church people among the most active in testifying against
                    wholesale evacuation and internment. Dr. Paul Reagor, president of the Northern 
                        California
                     Church Federation, supported by Smith, Chapman, Fisher, and James, spoke at the 
                        San Francisco
                     hearings. Floyd Schmoe, a 
                        Quaker
                     connected with the American Friends Service Committee, reported that eight of the
                    twelve people who spoke against evacuation at the Tolan committee's Seattle hearings on
                    March 11, 1942, were churchrelated. Outnumbered four-to-one by people testifying in favor of
                    internment, opponents failed to convince the committee, which was, in any case, merely advisory to
                    the military authorities under General DeWitt.9 On March 18,
                    Roosevelt's Executive Order 9102 created the War Relocation Authority (WRA) to oversee the
                    evacuation and relocation of Japanese Americans.
            Unable to influence federal policy, the missionary community focused its attention on helping the
                    west coast Japanese population. One member denomination of the Home Missions Council, the
                    Indianapolisbased Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) operated a mission church serving the
                    Japanese in 
                        California
                    . Direct oversight of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     group's efforts fell to the United Christian Missionary Society (UCMS), an arm
                    of the church formed in 1920 by the union of several Disciples of Christ mission groups-the
                    wealthiest (and therefore most powerful) of 
                  
                     8 Toru Matsumoto, Beyond Prejudice: A Story of the Church
                                and Japanese Americans (
                                New York
                            , 1946), 13-14.
                  
                     9 Matsumoto, Beyond Prejudice, 15; Floyd Schmoe,
                            "Seattle's Peace Churches and Relocation," in Japanese Americans: From Relocation to Redress, ed. Roger Daniels, Sandra C.
                            Taylor, and Harry H. L. Kitano (rev. ed., Seattle, 1991), 117-22.
               
                     which was the Christian Woman's Board of Missions. Like
                    the parent church, the UCMS maintained headquarters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .10
            
            In early March 1942, UCMS President Robert M. Hopkins sent a representative, William R. Holder, to 
                        Los Angeles
                     in response to a plea from the Japanese Christian Church and Institute, a key Disciples
                    congregation established before the war. Holder spoke to the congregation on Sunday, March 8, and
                    met with the church board that afternoon. On March 9, he filed his report to the home office, which
                    published it in the April 1942 issue of World Call, the UCMS magazine. The report
                    gives an interesting snapshot of the church's desperate attempts to deal with the looming
                    Japanese American crisis. At the time of its writing, evacuation seemed certain but internment did
                    not. Rumors suggested that the people would be "assigned for resettlement in places as yet
                    undetermined." Holder wrote, "The picture of them wandering about, wanted nowhere
                    but forced to keep moving, haunted one's mind." Disciples of Christ members at
                    other churches in southern 
                        California
                     were asked to offer their homes as places where members of the Japanese American
                    congregation could store their household goods.11 By May, as one local pastor
                    would later recall, "nearly forty years of concerted effort of Disciples of Christ abruptly
                    came to an end" as the evacuation project began in earnest.12
            
            Scholars and popular writers often use the term "relocation" to refer to the
                    removal of Japanese Americans from their homes in the West to the internment camps, but the WRA
                    quickly came to see its work in a different light-as literally the "relocation" of
                    people from one part of the country to other regions. Sensitive to the "hostility, doubts
                    and fears of the public at large," the agency tried to prepare host communities in advance
                    of the "controlled relocation" that it proposed for the west coast evacuees. The
                    WRA's official policy, which entailed not only relocation but also dispersal, rested on the
                    agency's belief that small numbers of 
                  
                     10 Lester G. McAllister and William E. Tucker, Journey in
                                Faith: A History of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1975), 344-51. The Disciples maintained missions in 
                                Japan
                            , out of which convert Toyozo W. Nakarai came to 
                                Butler
                             University. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star Magazine, September 12, 1965.
                  
                     11 William R. Holder, "Love Not Evacuated," World Call, 24 (April 1942), 14.
                  
                     12 Kojiro Unoura, "Christian Ministry in Exile," World Call, 26 (November 1944), 19.
               
                     Japanese Americans could be resettled in new areas of the
                    country with less opposition than large numbers.13
            
            The policy of dispersal was more than a wartime exigency. Government officials hoped that
                    assimilation would provide a permanent solution to the "Japanese problem" by
                    eliminating west coast Japanese enclaves altogether. Japanese Americans were therefore urged to take
                    advantage of relocation opportunities in many different parts of the country; once resettled, they
                    were asked not to associate with each other but rather to try to blend in with the local population.
                    This philosophy was shared at the highest levels. President Roosevelt, speaking in a November 1944
                    press conference, reported that "a good deal of progress has been made in scattering them
                    through the country, and that is going on every day … 75,000 families scattered around
                    the 
                        United States
                     is not going to upset anybody."14 As historian Roger
                    Daniels writes in his standard history of the subject: "Both Franklin D. Roosevelt and his
                    War Relocation Authority had high hopes that, after the war, the new Japanese American communities
                    would contain the majority of the Japanese American population."15
            
            In attempting to relocate thousands of people, the federal government looked first to the
                    Intermountain West. However, racial prejudice and hysteria there echoed the mood of the Pacific
                    Coast, and all of the region's governors (except Ralph Carr of 
                        Colorado
                    ) refused to cooperate with the resettlement program. Meeting in Salt Lake City on April
                    7, 1942, the governors and their attorneys general raised every kind of protest from fear of mob
                    violence to economic and fiscal concerns. These bitter complaints were heard by Colonel Karl R.
                    Bendetsen of the Western Defense Command, Tom C. Clark of the Wartime Civil Control 
                  
                     13 U.S., Department of Interior, WRA, The Relocation
                                Program (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1946), 4, 14-15. The vanguard group leaving the camps was the so-called
                            "College Nisei," second-generation, American-born Japanese. By 1945, eight
                            Indiana colleges hosted 25 Japanese American students: DePauw University, Earlham College, 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Hanover
                             College, Indiana Technical College, 
                                Manchester
                             College, St. Mary's College, and 
                                Valparaiso
                             University. Thomas James, Exile Within: The Schooling of Japanese
                                Americans, 1942-1945 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1987), 112-39; Justin Libby, "Japanese," in Peopling Indiana: The Ethnic Experience, ed. Robert M. Taylor, Jr., and
                            Connie A. McBirney (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1996), 298-312.
                  
                     14 Roosevelt quoted in Roger Daniels, Prisoners Without
                                Trial: Japanese Americans in World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1993), 80. Roosevelt may have meant "people," not families,
                            as the total number interned was approximately 120,000.
                  
                     15 WRA, WRA, 132-33; Daniels, Asian America,
                        286-87.
               
                     Administration, and Milton S. Eisenhower, at that time the
                    director of the WRA. The meeting drove home the point that if Japanese Americans were to be
                    resettled away from the West Coast, they might find a warmer welcome farther inland, especially if
                    the people of the states receiving them could be carefully prepared.16
            
            In response to the challenge of building a more favorable attitude toward relocation and dispersal,
                    the WRA turned its efforts to developing public-private partnerships that would bring the
                    government's mission together with those of local church groups and citizen committees.
                    Among those groups, the WRA found willing partners among members of the national church missionary
                    community that had already mobilized to support resettlement. 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Disciples of Christ were, as we have seen, actively engaged in the task of
                    supporting their Japanese American members in 
                        California
                    . The church's efforts were coordinated by its UCMS Committee on War Services,
                    formed in 1941, and headed by Willard M. Wickizer, director of the Home Missions Division of the
                    UCMS. Additional committee members came from Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, Missouri, Virginia
               , and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.17 Through this committee, the UCMS continued to shepherd its
                    flock of approximately 900 Japanese American Disciples of Christ members, now being scattered
                    throughout the nation.18 In the late summer of 1942, at its International
                    Convention at Grand Rapids, 
                        Michigan
                    , the Disciples of Christ's general assembly passionately discussed Japanese
                    American internment. The UCMS, with the approval of its cabinet and board of managers, put forward a
                    resolution expressing concern for the maintenance of democratic principles in wartime and calling
                    the internment of more than 100,000 people-70 percent of them American citizens- without the filing
                    of charges or conviction for any crime, contrary to American ideals of justice. The resolution
                    called for hearing boards for internees, release of those judged loyal, aid in securing jobs, and
                    compensation for losses. After removing some language deemed critical of 
                  
                     16 WRA, The Relocation Program, 6-8; Audrie Girdner
                            and Anne Loftis, The Great Betrayal: The Evacuation of Japanese-Americans
                                During World War II (
                                London
                            , 1969), 116.
                  
                     17 Willard M. Wickizer to Committee on War Services, January 18, 1945,
                            Committee on War Services (hereafter CWS) collection (AC #81-40), box 1 (Disciples of Christ
                            Historical Society, 
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn.); McAllister and Tucker, Journey in Faith, 394-95,
                            407. Other 
                                Indianapolis
                             members included Cleo Blackburn, Clifford H. Jope, Mrs. H. B. Marx, and William
                            T. Pearcy.
                  
                     18 "James Sugioka to Important Post," World Call, 24 (September 1942), 20.
               
                     the government, "The revised document was passed by an
                    overwhelming vote, despite the frantic efforts of one or two delegates to encompass its
                        defeat."19
            
            With consensus forged, the denomination was well prepared for the September 24, 1942, joint meeting
                    held between the Home Missions Council and the Federal Council of Churches in 
                        New York
                     City.20 At this meeting, two WRA representatives, Thomas W. Holland
                    and John H. Provinse, explained in detail the strategy for resettlement and made recommendations as
                    to how the churches could assist. When asked how the WRA intended to start the project, Holland
                    replied that "we intend to concentrate effort in a relatively few places like
                            
                  Chicago, Cleveland, Minneapolis
                or Des
                    Moines-nine or ten mid-west communities. This would be the resettlement of the first
                    thousand." The discussion also addressed Catholic and Jewish collaboration, conditions for
                    release of internees, and methods of assisting with job placement. Asked whether periodic check-ups
                    on the resettlers would be necessary, Holland replied, "I would like to see these people
                    restored to complete freedom, wards of nobody. But it might be well, in cases where single girls are
                    employed, for someone on the local committee to investigate carefully the position open and then
                    after she begins work to keep an eye on how she gets along."21
            
            At a second joint meeting two weeks later the church representatives established the Committee on
                    Resettlement of Japanese Americans. Fourteen constituent denominations, including the Disciples of
                    Christ (represented by Miss Dale Ellis, executive secretary of institutional missions for the UCMS),
                    joined forces to initiate the committee's work of organizing local support groups and
                    finding jobs and housing for resettiers. They agreed on a budget of $10,000-$
                    15,000 for administration. The YMCA and YWCA sent representatives to the third meeting of the
                    Committee on Resettlement, held in 
                        Chicago
                     on October 25, 1942. Toru Matsumoto, an assistant and later director for resettlement
                    on the 
                  
                     19 "Convention Resolutions," World
                                Call, 24 (September 1942), 16.
                  
                     20 The Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America was organized
                            with thirty-three Protestant denominations in 1908 as part of the Social Gospel
                            movement's push toward ecumenism. In 1950, the Council of Churches and the Home
                            Missions Council merged with ten other organizations to form the National Council of
                            Churches.
                  
                     21 "Minutes of Special Group Called to Consider Plans for
                            Japanese Resettlement," September 24, 1942, 
                                New York
                             City, CWS, box 1; Disciple Herald, 1 (December 1945),
                        2.
               
                    
                    
                  Packing up, 1943, Manzanar Relocation Center A crowd gathers to say farewell to
                            the young women (left foreground) preparing to leave for resettlement Photograph by Ansel
                            Adams, courtesy Library of Congress
                committee's staff, wrote that "as those present expressed their views,
                    representing wide ranges of community life, resettlement came to seem not only possible but highly
                    desirable." By the end of October, George E. Rundquist, a 
                        Quaker
                     who had given up his publishing business to work voluntarily on behalf of Japanese
                    Americans, assumed the position of executive secretary for the committee.22
            
            Just over two months later, on January 4, 1943, the government's first midwestern field
                    office opened in 
                        Chicago
                    . During the course of the 
                  
                     22 Matsumoto, Beyond Prejudice, 55-56; J. Quinter
                            Miller (secretary-treasurer of the Committee on Resettlement) to committee members, November
                            10, 1942, CWS, box 1. The fourteen constituent bodies were Church of the Brethren,
                            Congregational and Christian Churches, Disciples of Christ, Evangelical Church, Evangelical
                            and Reformed Church, Society of Friends, Mennonites, Methodist Church, Northern Baptist
                            Convention, Presbyterian Church in the U.SA., Protestant Episcopal Church, Reformed Church
                            in America, United Brethren Church, and United Presbyterian Church. The same group of
                            churches was active on the Protestant Church Commission for Japanese Service, which took
                            responsibility for working inside the relocation camps. The commission cooperated with the
                            Committee on Resettlement but operated independently.
               
                     year, additional "area" offices opened in
                            
                  Cleveland, Kansas
                City, Salt Lake City, 
                  Denver, New York
                City, and 
                        Little Rock
                    , with approximately thirty-five smaller "district" offices
                    established in secondary cities. These offices handled contacts with potential employers of Japanese
                    Americans, monitored and tried to improve public attitudes toward the resettlers, and provided
                    services to newly arrived evacuees from the camps.
            Not all midwesterners approved of the new federal policy. In Indiana, the 
                        Marion County
                     Building Trades Council fired off an immediate protest, which was delivered to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., by Congressman Louis Ludlow. WRA deputy director E. M. Rowalt assured Ludlow
                    that Indiana would not receive evacuees unless the sentiment of each community was first
                    ascertained. Rowalt further attempted to soothe the objectors by noting that the candidates for
                    resettlement were accustomed to working in agriculture and service occupations, not in high-paying
                    war plants.23
            
            Four months later, an article in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star announced the opening of a WRA field office on the sixth floor of the Circle
                    Tower in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Edmond T. Cleary, the relocation officer for Indiana, promised that evacuees would be
                    placed only in those Hoosier communities where positive sentiment already existed. To ensure that
                    existing workers would not be displaced by cheap labor, Cleary affirmed that the Japanese Americans
                    would receive the prevailing wage rates in local communities. "We are here only to fill a
                    need if the need exists," he proclaimed, adding that the evacuees had received security
                    clearances and were available for farm labor.24
            
            The week after Cleary announced his arrival in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , George Rundquist sent a letter to representatives of two local church groups-executive
                    secretary Howard J. Baumgartel of the Church Federation of Greater 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Dale Ellis of the UCMS. Rundquist advised Baumgartel and Ellis to contact Cleary
                    and to begin the task of assisting the government's relocation efforts: "I believe
                    now is the time for you to organize your forces to open up homes for evacuees who might resettle in
                    your city. Possibly you could arrange also to meet some of the evacuees at the station as they
                    arrive, and plan to render 
                  
                     23 WRA, The Relocation Program, 19; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 29, 1943.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 13, 1943.
               
                     other services you may deem necessary to help in the
                    satisfactory relocation and assimilation of these people into the community." Rundquist
                    also asked the church officials to keep his staff informed of resettlement activities undertaken by
                    the churches in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .25
            
            The Church Federation had already formed an opinion regarding how it would respond to the Japanese
                    American crisis. At a March 11, 1943, meeting of the Federation's Inter-racial Committee-a
                    group of black and white clergy and laymen organized in 1926 to deal with matters concerning African
                    Americans and African American churches- Baumgartel brought up the plans to resettle Japanese
                    Americans in midwestern cities. Much discussion ensued, but because some members felt that 
                        Indianapolis
                     was not ready to accept the Japanese, the committee could not reach an agreement. In
                    fact, "the talk also pointed out that the members of this committee themselves were not in
                    accord about their attitudes toward the situation." The issue was therefore tabled, and
                    minutes of Church Federation records bear no evidence that the question was ever discussed again.26
            
            The Disciples of Christ, on the other hand, were fully committed and determined to conduct the work
                    of the national Committee on Resettlement. The UCMS had already hired James Sugioka, an elder in the
                    Hollister (
                        California
                    ) Christian Church before the war, to assist relocated Japanese Americans in 
                        Colorado
                    's Arkansas Valley.27 In 1944 the UCMS
                    brought Sugioka to its 
                        Indianapolis
                     office and charged him with the task of maintaining contacts both with the internment
                    camps and with Disciple congregations across the country.
            Historian Sandra C. Taylor has enumerated the challenges faced by the Committee on Resettlement in
                    its efforts to aid Japanese American 
                  
                     25 George E. Rundquist to Dale Ellis, May 18, 1943, CWS, box 1; WRA,
                                The Relocation Program, 89.
                  
                     26 Inter-racial Committee, Minutes, March 11, 1943, in Church
                            Federation of Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Records, 1886-2002 (M0755), box 89 (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Edwin L. Becker, From Sovereign to Servant: The Church
                                Federation of Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1912-1987 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987), 21, 38-39.
                  
                     27 Sugioka fled 
                                California
                             to settle in 
                                Colorado
                             with his family. After the war ended, Sugioka stayed on with the UCMS,
                            eventually becoming an ordained minister in the Disciples of Christ chuTch and interim
                            minister at three Indiana churches. Girdner and Loftis, The Great
                            Betrayal, 117; Kathleen 
                                Van
                             Nuys, "Retired Minister Recalls Nightmare," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 7, 1977.
               
                     relocation.28 In parallel with the
                    practical problem of finding jobs and housing, she points to two public relations issues: reassuring
                    internees inside the camps about their prospects if they were to relocate and convincing those
                    outside the camps to support the effort. In the latter case, they were guided by a church coalition
                    "Plan for General Promotion" (a copy of which had been attached to the minutes of
                    the September 24, 1942, joint meeting), which called for "publicity in the public press
                    and, in particular, in the religious press toward this same end." On the copy of the report
                    now filed in the Disciples of Christ archive, the phrase "publicity in the public
                    press" has been crossed out-evidently on the advice of WRA representative Holland, who had
                    reasoned that "a wide publicity campaign would probably arouse the country unnecessarily.
                    It would get communities excited over a ‘Japanese invasion,’ for
                    example." To a follow-up question about publicity within the churches, however, Holland
                    responded, "You should make them fully aware of the mechanics of the project and of what is
                    involved. This is different from putting items into the local newspapers."29 Protestant groups approached the public relations issue by publishing literature: bulletins
                    for the internees that reported conditions in specific eastern and midwestern cities, and pamphlets
                    for their congregations aimed at stirring up favorable sentiment toward the resettlers.30
            
            The WRA also fostered the "inside" public relations campaign. In August and
                    September 1943, the agency sent photographer Charles E. Mace to the Midwest. Beginning in 
                        Chicago
                     on August 18, Mace proceeded to 
                        Cleveland
                    , then spent four days in Indiana (August 24-27), before heading to 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Kansas
                     City, with the assignment to depict the amenities of life in order to attract more
                    internees to the area. The caption for one Indiana photograph reads: "The residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     are for the most part amusement lovers. The city boasts dozens of theaters, both
                    legitimate and movie. One of the latter is the Indiana, shown here." Another photograph
                    shows "A street scene in The 
                  
                     28 Sandra C. Taylor, "‘Fellow-Feelers with the
                            Afflicted’: The Christian Churches and the Relocation of the Japanese During
                            World War II," in Japanese Americans, ed. Daniels et al., 126.
                  
                     29 "Minutes of Special Group Called to Consider Plans for
                            Japanese Resettlement," September 24, 1942, CWS, box 1.
                  
                     30 Matsumoto, Beyond Prejudice, 142-44; Gordon K.
                            Chapman, "Memorandum on the Scope, Function, and Policies of the Western Protestant
                            Church Commission for Japanese Service," December 9, 1942, CWS, box 1.
               
                    
                    
                  Marie Kitazumi, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , August 25, 1943 WRA photographer Charles Mace depicted Japanese Americans in 
                                Indianapolis
                             engaging in patriotic activities. Here, resettler Marie Kitazumi, employed as a
                            secretary in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , purchases a war bond under the auspices of the Colonial Dames Photograph by
                            Charles E. Mace, courtesy of The Bancroft Library, University of 
                                California
                            , Berkeley
                Circle, the hub of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     business district. In the center are shops, theatres, restaurants, a church, etc. Buses
                    to and from all parts of the city take on and unload passengers here." Mace also
                    photographed the countryside west of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and all along his route. He presents good farm land and a shot of 
                        Plainfield
                     with the caption: "A small town typical of those found in the Midwest farming
                        regions."31
            
            
               
                  31 War Relocation Authority Photographs of Japanese-American Evacuation
                        and Resettlement (BANC PIC 1967.014-PIC), vol. 43, section E, WRA nos. H-193, H-188, H-199 (The
                        Bancroft Library, University of 
                            California
                        , Berkeley), online at http://www.oac.cdlib.org/dynaweb/ead/calher/jvac/ (click on
                        Container Listing, Series 12, Group 84).
            
            
            Mace photographed four Japanese Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                    -all young women, three employed as secretaries and one as a waitress. Two, Marie
                    Kitazumi and Monica Itoi, are shown "at the entrance to a church where they attend
                    services." Their clothing and hair styles could not be more "American."
                    Kitazumi is also shown purchasing a $100 war bond at a Colonial Dames booth,
                    "with money saved from her salary." Mace's photographs and their
                    captions, in other words, not only try to show 
                        Indianapolis
                     in its best light, they also portray the resettlers as model citizens who fit in well
                    in their new communities.
            As depicted in the photographs, the resettlers who came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     would seem to be typical of the demographic group most likely to leave the camps, which
                    Dorothy Swaine Thomas characterized as "the most highly assimilated segments of the
                    Japanese American minority" or "Christian-secular nonagricultural Nisei."
                    In other words, one problem that the local committees did not have to deal with, at least initially,
                    was that of cultural adjustment. Most of the early resettlers were not immigrants; as Nisei, they
                    were middle-class, English-speaking citizens who had grown up in American schools and neighborhoods.
                    At the time of World War II, the Nisei would have been people in their twenties and thirties.32
            
            The WRA worked to form favorable "outside" public opinion as well. On November 16,
                    1943, WRA director Dillon S. Myer came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to speak at a meeting of state commanders and state adjutants of the American
                        Legion.33 Acknowledging his dismay at the negative sentiments about the
                    relocation program, which the Legion had expressed in various resolutions, he welcomed the chance to
                    give them "full and accurate information." Myer explained in detail the
                    WRA's method of compiling a comprehensive docket on each individual who applied for release
                    from the internment camps. He emphasized the difference 
                  
                     32 Dorothy Swaine Thomas, The Salvage: Japanese American
                                Evacuation and Resettlement (Berkeley, Calif., 1952), 125, 128. Thomas, a
                            UC-Berkeley sociologist, directed the Japanese American Evacuation and Resettlement Study, a
                            large-scale independent research study conducted in four of the internment camps and in 
                                Chicago
                             during the war.
                  
                     33 Two months earlier, an international labor publication had
                            commended the Indiana chapter of the American Legion for "exposing" a
                            "powerful coalition" in its "widespread campaign of
                            propaganda" to "saturate the Mid-West" with cheap Japanese labor
                            relocated from the Pacific Coast. "Deport All Japs, Says Legion," International Teamster, 40 (September 1943), 33; "Jap Girl
                            Lectures to Churches on Jap ‘Culture,’" International Teamster, 40 (November 1943), 26.
               
                     between these camps and the internment camps built by the
                    Department of Justice to imprison suspicious enemy aliens, declaring that the purpose of the
                    WRA's camps was "to provide places where the evacuees could be quartered while we
                    were developing an orderly program of relocation in normal communities." Myer did not
                    neglect to point out the pragmatic arguments for resettlement: the expense of maintaining the camps,
                    their consumption of goods and materials needed elsewhere, and the nationwide manpower shortage. But
                    he also appealed to the Legion's desire to promote American ideals, something impossible to
                    do in "an atmosphere which makes a mockery of our American traditions." Myer
                    considered this speech, which was reported in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, to be a significant step forward, remarking in a memorandum the following
                    month that within the leadership of the American Legion, "unfriendly though it has been, we
                    have secured a substantial amount of understanding and support."34
            
            The Disciples of Christ eventually joined in this effort to sway "outside" public
                    opinion. At the church's international convention in 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , October
                    17-22, 1944, the delegates issued a resolution on the "Restoration of Rights to Americans
                    of Japanese Descent." The resolution, duly reported in World Call,
                    expressed thanks to the federal government for its efforts in resettlement work, to the Home
                    Missions Council for its service in the relocation camps, and to "churches around the
                    country which have helped to find employment for these people, have secured community acceptance,
                    and have supplied them with spiritual guidance." It then pointedly thanked the FBI and the
                    War Department for making public the fact that these people were not guilty of sabotage in 
                        Hawaii
                     (as had been widely reported) and the Selective Service for allowing Japanese Americans
                    to serve in the armed forces and for publicizing their "exceptional record on the European
                    Front as well as in the South Pacific." In conclusion, the delegates called upon the
                    federal government to remove "whatever restrictions have been imposed 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 17, 1943; Dillon S. Myer, "The Relocation
                            Program," speech to the American Legion, November 16, 1943; Myer, memorandum to the
                            staff of the WRA, December 21, 1943, Papers of Dillon S. Myer (Harry S. Truman Library,
                            Independence, 
                                Missouri
                            ), online at
                            http://www.trumanlibrary.org/whistlestop/study_collections/japanese_internment/docs.php.
                            Myer added: "There are a great many people in this country who feel that all
                            persons of Japanese ancestry should be confined under heavy guard for the duration of the
                            war. I want to say right here and now that 1 consider such a proposal fundamentally un
                            American."
               
                     upon these people because of race" and restore to them
                    "all of the freedoms which other Americans enjoy."35
            
            The UCMS Committee on War Services stepped up its efforts to carry out its "inside"
                    communications task in January 1945, when it began publishing a newsletter for its scattered
                    Japanese American flock. The Disciple Herald provided information about life on
                    the outside for internees who might be thinking of leaving the camps. "In this period of
                    unparalleled readjustment," wrote the committee's executive secretary, Willard M.
                    Wickizer, "we want to be of every possible help." News items about Japanese
                    Americans who had resettled in 
                  Chicago, Rochester
                (
                        Minnesota
                    ), 
                  Cleveland, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Cincinnati
                     appeared in the first issue. "Generally speaking, prejudice is less, east of
                    the Missouri River, or roughly, east of 95 degrees latitude," declared
                    the Disciple Herald, although it also warned against some states with
                    discriminatory laws. Admitting that housing was a major headache, the publication advised resettlers
                    to start with leads from friends, newspapers, or a committee. It also summarized the favorable
                    employment picture: domestic jobs ("usually a stepping stone to something better for those
                    with ability"), industrial jobs ("even for those with language
                    difficulty"), farming opportunities in both the North and South, and, most enticingly,
                    professional positions ("skilled trade, clerical and so on-all for the applying and
                        taking").36
            
            Occasionally, the Disciple Herald reported opportunities in Indiana, such as an
                    offer by Otto Frenzel of Carmel to provide $150 per month and a furnished five-room
                    bungalow in exchange for the services of a couple. G. Ikeda of 
                        Knox
                     advertised for a family interested in farming, noting a school bus service and location
                    "near Bass Lake, a famous fishing spot." Offering a salary of $80 to
                    $90 per month, electricity, five tons of coal per year, one gallon of milk per day, 400
                    pounds of meat per year, a place to raise chickens for family use, and a plot of land for a home
                    garden, Lawrence Lindley of 
                        Hagerstown
                     commented: "Salary may seem low but it is no lower than those prevailing in
                    that area and a man is able to save."37
            
            
               
                  35 "Actions at 
                            Columbus
                        ," World Call, 26 (December 1944), 36.
               
                  36
                        News Bulletin, 1 January 1945), 2-3; News Bulletin, 1 (March 1945), 1-2;
                        copies in CWS, box 1. After its first issue, the bulletin was renamed The Disciple
                            Herald and seven additional issues were published before it ceased operation in October
                        1946.
               
                  37
                        Disciple Herald, 1 (July 1945), 3; "An Opportunity," WRA
                        correspondence file, box 2 (Disciples of Christ Historical Society).
            
            
            In Indiana, the Committee on War Services also worked to locate jobs in its role as liaison for the
                    state. In July 1943, Miss Jessie M. Trout, a Disciples missionary, along with Paul Sato and Mr. and
                    Mrs. Alfred Tsukamoto, toured rural Indiana communities under the sponsorship of the UCMS and WRA.
                    Seeking to survey the farm labor situation and gauge community sentiment toward Japanese Americans,
                    they met with more than 1,700 people, including farm groups, church groups, town officials, and
                    industrialists. The World Call reported: "Even when there was early
                    evidence of suspicion or apathy, the simple telling of the story almost invariably won
                        friends."38
            
            The public-private effort also engaged the assistance of local volunteers to find housing in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . On one level, the WRA solicited recommendations via an advisory committee led by
                    Rowland Allen, personnel manager of L. S. Ayres and Company department store, and Mr. and Mrs.
                    Howard J. Baumgartel (he had been unable to mobilize the Church Federation of Greater 
                        Indianapolis
                    ). Other participants included Howard Nyhart (executive secretary of the city's
                    Chamber of Commerce) and his wife, William Book, Eugene Foster (of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Service Foundation), and Alvin T. Coate (a "prominent 
                        Quaker
                    "). An aside in a WRA report notes that the problem with the black community
                    "disappeared under some of our able Negro leaders' guidance. Mr. Cleo Blackburn,
                    known throughout the city, has been our principal aid.",39 Additional
                    support came from social and governmental agencies, such as the YWCA and the 
                        United States
                     Employment Service, whose manager, a Mr. Bennett, attended some of the committee
                    meetings. In Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , the secretaries of the YWCA took an active part in helping the relocation officers,
                    arranging meetings for them with the heads of other agencies in their communities.'40
            
            One of Mace's Indiana photographs portrays a meeting of the "committee on
                    housing," a group of nicely dressed women, including one or two African Americans. They are
                    "discussing ways and means of 
                  
                     38 "A Truly Christian Service," World
                                Call, 25 (September 1943), 4.
                  
                     39 Blackburn was the executive director of Flanner House, an ordained
                            Disciples of Christ minister, and a member of the UCMS Committee on War Services. Michelle
                            D. Hale, "Cleo W. Blackburn," in The Encyclopedia of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , ed. David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1994), 323-24.
                  
                     40 "Final Report of 
                                Indianapolis
                             District Office," 2-3, Records of the War Relocation Authority, record
                            group 210, box 6, folder 2D (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                    
                    
                  A meeting to consider Japanese resettlement in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , August 26, 1943 Mrs. Royal McLain (standing left) addresses a group discussing
                            accommodations for incoming resettlers (local WRA officer Edmond T. Cleary is seated at
                            table center) Photograph by Charles E. Mace, courtesy of The Bancroft Library, University of 
                                California
                            , Berkeley
                finding suitable quarters for the many relocatees who are finding employment in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."41 Organized late in 1943, the committee wrote to all the
                    women leaders of all the churches in 
                        Indianapolis
                     regarding the housing dilemma. The committee was disappointed, however, when Hoosiers
                    offered only temporary housing, excluding families with children. The relocation office found only
                    one viable method of obtaining housing for families-"having employers furnish a house along
                    with the job if they wanted to secure Japanese help."42
            
            The combined public and private efforts drew 254 Japanese Americans (202 of them American born) to
                    Indiana. Who were they? We do not know a lot about them, as there are very few documentary sources
                    specific to Indiana or 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Some were regular folks, like Mrs. T. Kawada, a beautician, and her daughter, Alyce,
                    who studied music and worked part-time in the city library. A small number had a military
                    connection. When the war began, Japanese Americans were already serving in the armed forces of the 
                        United States
                    , and some enlisted or were drafted 
                  
                     41 WRA Photographs, H-183.
                  
                     42 "Final Report of 
                                Indianapolis
                             District Office," 5.
               
                     during the months between Pearl Harbor and the evacuation from
                    the West Coast. When the army moved 250 of them inland to Fort Benjamin Harrison on the east side of 
                        Indianapolis
                    -where their weapons were taken away and they were assigned to menial tasks-the
                    relocation program allowed their wives and fiancees to follow. Some of the Japanese American
                    soldiers from Fort Harrison eventually went to fight in Europe with the 100th Infantry
                    Battalion/442nd Regimental Combat Team, but others remained throughout the war and settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                     permanently afterward. For example, after an honorable discharge, Henry Nishida hired
                    on with a local trucking firm.43
            
            In February 1946, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district office of the War Relocation Authority closed its doors. The following year,
                    the WRA reported that over 25,000 Japanese and Japanese Americans had relocated to the Midwest. 
                        Chicago
                     drew the largest number; other popular destinations included 
                  Cleveland, Detroit
               , and 
                        Minneapolis
                    /
                        St. Paul
                     (see Table 2). The recurring historical pattern of low migration rates to Indiana, as
                    compared with the other states of the Old Northwest and upper Midwest, held true for this diaspora.
                    Why, comparably, did Indiana draw so few resettlers? Why did the city of Des Moines attract more
                    than the entire Hoosier state? Indiana may have been distinctive, but it was not alone in its
                    history of low immigration and anti-foreigner attitudes.
            
               Table 2 Midwestern Destinations of Evacuees by State (and City)44
               
               
                  
                     
                                Illinois
                             (
                                Chicago
                            )
                  12,776
                  (11,309)
               
               
                  Indiana
                  254
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Iowa
                             (Des Moines)
                  641
                  (378)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             (
                                Detroit
                            )
                  3,047
                  (1,649)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Minnesota
                             (
                                Minneapolis
                            )
                  2,046
                  (1,354)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Missouri
                             (
                                St. Louis
                            )
                  1,108
                  (469)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Ohio
                             (
                                Cleveland
                            )
                  4,422
                  (3,089)
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wisconsin
                             (Milwaukee)
                  769
                  (422)
               
               
                  Total
                  25,532
                  
               
            
            
               
                  43
                        Disciple Herald, 1 (January 1945), 3; Frances Ito, interview by author, March
                        15, 2004. Baumgartel reported that the Church Federation had made one contribution to the
                        relocation effort: encouraging citizens to welcome these soldiers, some of whom had been invited
                        into churches and also into homes. Inter-racial Committee, Minutes, March 11, 1943.
               
                  44 WRA, WRA, 203-205.
            
            
            One reason for Indiana's lack of attraction may have been lukewarm positive influences
                    rather than outright negative factors. As evidenced by the need for the inside publicity campaign,
                    people in the internment camps were generally reluctant to venture out into unfamiliar and
                    potentially hostile parts of the country. Even though the majority had been cleared to leave by July
                    1943, many hesitated because they feared public reaction and, having suffered economic losses, were
                    worried about jobs and housing. To counteract this uncertainty, employers from some cities, driven
                    by the shortage of home front manpower during the war, recruited workers aggressively. The Stevens
                    Hotel in 
                        Chicago
                    , for example, hired several hundred evacuees through strong recruiting efforts. Cities
                    such as 
                  Chicago, Minneapolis
               , and 
                        Cleveland
                     could also offer more jobs and a wider range of occupations. Finally, although housing
                    remained scarce, church groups in 
                  Chicago,
                            Cleveland, Cincinnati
               , and Des Moines, led by the American Friends Service
                    Committee and the Brethren Service Committee, operated hostels to provide reasonably priced living
                    accommodations until resettlers could find permanent housing.45 There is no
                    indication that 
                        Indianapolis
                     or other Indiana cities offered any of these incentives to relocating Japanese
                        Americans.46
            
            Michael Albert, one of the first scholars to write about resettlement in the Midwest, points out
                    three factors that influenced the choice of 
                        Minnesota
                     as a destination for Japanese Americans leaving the internment camps. One was the
                    presence of the Military Intelligence Service Language School that recruited Japanese-speaking Nisei
                    from the internment camps to serve as translators in the Pacific. The 
                        Minneapolis
                    /
                        St. Paul
                     area also had many colleges and universities that accepted Nisei students, including
                    Macalester, Hamline, St. Catherine's, St. Thomas, 
                  
                     45 WRA, The Relocation Program, 30-31, 33, 40, 46;
                            Taylor, "'Fellow-Feelers with the Afflicted,'" 126. In
                            his discussion of the wartime experiences of resettlers in 
                                Cincinnati
                            , Allan W. Austin makes special mention of 
                                Cincinnati
                            's Friends Hostel. Austin, "‘A Finer Set of Hopes
                            and Dreams’: The Japanese American Citizens League and Ethnic Community in
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1942-1950," in Remapping
                                Asian American History, ed. Sucheng Chan (Walnut Creek, Calif., 2003), 87-90.
                  
                     46 To the contrary, an international labor publication cheered the
                            combined efforts of the American Federation of Labor, the Congress of Industrial
                            Organization, and Hoosier laborers in 
                                Michigan
                             City and 
                                South Bend
                             for blocking employer plans to offer jobs to relocating Japanese. "No
                            Jap Help Wanted Here-Unions Keep Them Out of Two Mid-West Cities," International Teamster, 41 (January 1944), 23.
               
                     St. Cloud, and Carleton. Finally, Albert remarks on
                    "the prompt mobilization of 
                        Minnesota
                     agencies to aid resettlers moving into the area."47
            
            Thomas M. Linehan suggests that 
                        Cleveland
                    's popularity as a destination for Japanese American resettlers, second only to 
                        Chicago
                    , may be attributed in part to the city's well-developed network of charities
                    and social service agencies, which in turn contributed to the effectiveness of its citizen group,
                    the 
                        Cleveland
                     Resettlement Committee for Japanese Americans. By mid-1945 the committee had a
                    membership of 75, with a 15-to-20-member executive committee. Linehan's research also
                    indicates the participation of several different Protestant denominations, as well as Jewish and
                    Catholic charities.48
            
            Two final reports submitted to the WRA also provide explanations for the state's lack of
                    success in placing resettlers. However, these documents offer two very different interpretations of
                    what happened in Indiana. The first theory is found in the "History of the North Central
                    Area," written from the viewpoint of the 
                        Chicago
                     area office, which served as a headquarters for the region. This report noted the
                    Midwest's overall success in its resettlement campaign, compared with other regions of the
                    country. The writer argues that it could hardly have been the physical characteristics of the area,
                    still less the climate, that attracted Japanese Americans. Rather, it was the "excellent
                    reception given to resettlers by the people of the Middle West." Relocation officers had
                    anticipated great difficulty in convincing employers to hire the Japanese Americans. Instead, their
                    clients were eagerly sought after and easily placed, requiring minimal assistance.49
            
            As a result, the North Central Area report praised the laissez-faire approach that developed in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Minneapolis
                     ("one job, one housing, and you're on your own") as
                    wholesome, normal, and supportive of the resettlers' return to independence. In contrast,
                    the report criticized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office's "protective attitude" as "tending to 
                  
                     47 Michael Albert, "The Japanese," in They Chose 
                                    Minnesota
                                : A Survey of the State's Ethnic Groups, ed. June Drenning
                            Holmquist (
                                St. Paul
                            , Minn., 1981), 559.
                  
                     48 Thomas M. Linehan, "Japanese American Resettlement in 
                                Cleveland
                             During and Alter World War II," Journal of Urban
                            History, 20 (November 1993), 54-80.
                  
                     49 "History of the North Central Area," 12-26,
                            Records of the War Relocation Authority, record group 210, box 6, folder 1A. The report
                            comments: "The climate of the area is somewhat rugged and while we have heard
                            thousands of expressions of dislike for it by resettlers, we have heard no
                            compliments" (p. 16).
               
                    
                    
                  Mary Matsamura, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , August 26, 1943 
                                Indianapolis
                             employers carefully supervised the hired resettlers. This WRA promotional
                            photograph shows 
                                Indianapolis
                             restaurant owner Walter Eaton with Mary Matsamura, whose pin bears two service
                            stars representing her husband and brother in the armed services Photograph by Charles E.
                            Mace, courtesy of The Bancroft Library, University of 
                                California
                            , Berkeley
                continue the paternalism of the relocation center." The citizens'
                    committee and relocation officers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     carried on a policy of "preselection," scrutinizing applications from
                    internees and approving only those they considered "superior people,"
                    well-educated and highly desirable. According to this report, committee members and relocation
                    officers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     (and, to some extent, 
                        St. Louis
                    ) slowed down the resettlement process by insisting on taking resettlers personally to
                    prospective employers and by housing them as domestics in carefully selected homes. In contrast, the
                    members of the Milwaukee committee merely lent their names to the letterhead and assumed almost no
                    actual responsibilities.50
            
            
               
                  50 "History of the North Central Area," 13-14,
                    19-20.
            
            
            The report that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office submitted to the WRA paints a very different picture. In this opinion, "
                        Indianapolis
                    ' acceptance of the Japanese Americans seemed highly improbable in the
                    beginning." Within an otherwise articulate and grammatical report, there is an odd
                    statement that hints at endemic conservatism and caution: "Hoosiers have a very substantial
                    background. They do not make over strange faces." The first representative of the WRA to
                    visit 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ted Waller, found "negative responses" in the political situation
                    and with the labor unions. He perceived opposition from the International Teamsters' Union
                    (with its national headquarters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) as well as the 
                        Marion County
                     Building Trades Council (a fear verified by their quick protest of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     WRA office).51 In contrast, he found the C.I.O. to be a staunch
                    supporter of resettlement. Waller recommended that the WRA's officers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     consult individuals in labor, the American Legion, government, and business before
                    "releasing Japanese Americans in Indiana." In addition, the report states that the
                    first major problem was the "anti-Japanese attitude of the Negro community towards the
                    arrival of a new minority." This prejudice apparently stemmed not from hatred of people of
                    Japanese ancestry, but rather from fear on the part of African Americans that the newcomers would
                    threaten the recent gains in employment which they had enjoyed as a result of the wartime shortage
                    of manpower. The report explains the housing difficulty as resulting from the influx of defense
                    workers and the boom town conditions that had already hit 
                        Indianapolis
                     by the time the relocation office began its work.52 Thus, Hoosiers
                    seeking to bring Japanese Americans from internment to Indiana worked against prevailing prejudices
                    in the community, in competition with contemporary job seekers, and in spite of limited recruiting
                    efforts on the part of the state's employers and universities. They combined careful
                    scrutiny and close supervision of resettlers with the willingness to counteract local attitudes and
                    to promote the cause of justice.
            
               
                  51 Henry Tani, who visited 
                            Indianapolis
                         in early 1944 at the invitation ol Immanuel Evangelical and Reformed Church to
                        speak in support of the relocation program, indicated that the opposition of the American Legion
                        and the Teamsters had made it impossible to find jobs for more than 50 Japanese Americans in the
                        city. "Hostile Japs Hoodwink Churches-Spread Propaganda for Jobs in War
                        Centers," International Teamster, 41 (February 1944), 17-18.
               
                  52 "Final Report of 
                            Indianapolis
                         District Office," 1-5.
            
            
            Regardless of the regional relocation patterns, what is so striking about the process as seen from
                    the vantage point of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is the level of coordination and the flow of information around the country, which in
                    turn enabled churches and committees to take action. It was a truly cooperative interdenominational
                    and interagency effort. For example, the hostels for new resettlers were sponsored in the midwestern
                    states by the American Friends Service Committee (
                        Cincinnati
                     and Des Moines), the American Baptist Home Mission Society (
                        Cleveland
                    ), the 
                        Detroit
                     Council of Churches (
                        Detroit
                    ), the Lutheran Church (
                        Minneapolis
                    ), and "cooperating Protestant, Jewish, and Catholic groups" (
                        Kansas
                     City). Others around the country were operated by various committees, councils, and
                    churches. Membership in this network, and dedication to its ideals, may have prompted the Indiana
                    groups that assisted with the relocation program to go against the prevailing local attitude of
                    suspicion regarding outsiders and Japanese Americans in particular.53
            
            As the relocation program came to an end, Japanese Americans living in the Midwest could either
                    return to the West Coast or stay in their new homes. A December 1945 letter from relocation officer
                    Marie Kitazumi advised resettlers who wanted to return to their former homes on the West Coast to
                    hasten their applications for financial assistance for travel or shipping of property held in WRA
                    warehouses. For those who decided to stay, however, she promised that other agencies in the area
                    would continue to provide services to resettlers. A directory later published by the WRA listed the
                    following 
                        Indianapolis
                     agencies: Legal Aid Society, Y.W.C.A, Council of Social Agencies, Church Federation,
                    Department of Public Welfare, and 
                        United States
                     Employment Service. Kitazumi concluded her letter by writing, "I hope that
                    you, like most people who have come in this district during the past several years, are planning to
                    make your new home a permanent one. I know that you will continue to find opportunity and security
                        here."54
            
            The censuses of 1950 and 1960 demonstrate that many Japanese Americans remained dispersed throughout
                    the nation (see Table 3). In 
                  
                     53 Matsumoto, Beyond Prejudice, 144-45.
                  
                     54 Marie Kitazumi to resettlers, December 31, 1945, CWS, box 2; WRA,
                                A Directory of Agencies, Groups, and Individuals Who Have Made their
                                Services Available to Resettlers in the North Central Area (n.d.), CWS, box
                        2.
               
                     the North Central region, the numbers were impressive. 
                        Illinois
                     had seen an increase from 462 in 1940 to 11,646 in 1950. Substantial gains were also
                    recorded in 
                        Michigan
                     (from 139 to 1,517), 
                        Minnesota
                     (from 51 to 1,049), and 
                        Ohio
                     (from 163 to 1,986). In 1940 the region was home to only 1.24 percent of the total
                    mainland Japanese American population; in 1950, its share had grown to 13.21 percent.
            
               Table 3 Japanese American Population by Mainland Region, 1940-196055
               
               
                  
                  1940
                  1950
                  1960
               
               
                  Pacific Coast
                  112,353(88.5%)
                  98,310 (69.4%)
                  178,985 (68.8%)
               
               
                  Mountain West
                  8,574(6.8%)
                  14,231(10%)
                  17,549(6.8%)
               
               
                  North Central
                  1,571(1.2%)
                  18,734(13.2%)
                  29,318(11.3%)
               
               
                  South
                  1,049(0.8%)
                  3,055(2.1%)
                  16,247(6.2%)
               
               
                  Northeast
                  3,400 (2.7%)
                  7,438 (5.3%)
                  17,962 (6.9%)
               
               
                  Total
                  126,947 (100%)
                  141,768 (100%)
                  260,061 (100%)
               
            
            Historians and investigating commissions have chronicled the dire effects of the removal on Japanese Americans-in terms of lost homes, possessions, and livelihoods-but they
                    have only recently begun to examine the significant effects of the dispersal on both the Japanese
                    population and the nation as a whole. An emerging consensus suggests that, because of wartime
                    conditions, Japanese Americans who went east benefited from unprecedented employment opportunities
                    outside the ethnic enclave, in industrial work, white-collar work, and other professions. The
                    Midwest is clearly a key part of this emerging story, illustrated in the following passage from a
                    memoir by one resettler: "Hoping to find employment in a hotel, I journeyed to 
                        Chicago
                    . No sooner had I arrived than I discovered that beauty operators were in great demand,
                    so I was able to obtain work in my profession… . Despite the war, I found very 
                  
                     55
                            
                                Campbell
                             Gibson and Kay Jung, "Historical Census Statistics on Population
                            Totals By Race, 1790 to 1990, and By Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, For The 
                                United States
                            , Regions, Divisions, and States," Working Paper Series No. 56,
                            Population Division, U. S. Census Bureau, 2002,
                            http://www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0056.html.
               
                     little discrimination in the Midwest compared with 
                        California
                    . I also found a warm neighborhood church."56
            
            If, as the saying goes, all that is required for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing, then
                    the corollary might be that for good people to do something, they have to think globally, organize
                    nationally, and act locally. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was called upon to do its part in Japanese American resettlement because then, as now,
                    although not in the very top rank, it was "on the map" at the national level, both
                    as a major city and as the headquarters of prominent national organizations. When the call came,
                    there were people in 
                        Indianapolis
                     who were prepared to answer. This group was not large, and it did not gain widespread
                    support in the community, but those who took on the mission of aiding Japanese Americans during
                    World War II acted with courage and conviction in a state that presented them with many challenges.
            
               
                  56 Grace Nakano, "Full Circle," in Triumphs
                            of Faith: Stories of Japanese-American Christians During World War II, ed. Victor N.
                        Okada, (
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1998), 91. U.S., Department of the Interior, War Agency Liquidation Unit (formerly
                        WRA), People in Motion: The Postwar Adjustment of the Evacuated Japanese
                        Americans (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1947), 147-48; an example of recent scholarship is Charlotte Brooks,
                        "In the Twilight Zone between Black and White: Japanese American Resettlement and
                        Community in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1942-1945," Journal of American History, 86 (March
                        2000), 1655-87.
            
         
         
         
            Asian Indians in Indiana
            M. GAIL HICKEY
            Asian Indians are among the fastest growing immigrant groups in the 
                        United States
                     today. Eighty-two percent of Asian Indian immigrants now living in the U.S. arrived
                    between 1980 and 2000, and their population more than doubled in the 1990s. Currently, the U.S.
                    Asian Indian population totals nearly 2 million. In 2004 nearly 17,000 Asian Indians lived in
                    Indiana-up more than 2,000 since 1999 and more than double the Asian Indian population recorded in
                    the state ten years earlier.1
            
            In spite of this numerical presence, the American media often present the Asian Indian community and
                    its individual members in stereotypic ways, portraying students as antisocial intellectuals, men as
                    dependable employees who nevertheless lack initiative, and women as silent and subservient spouses.
                    Unfortunately, research that might counter the stereotypes is extremely sparse, and few firsthand
                    accounts document the everyday Vives of Asian Indian immigrants in the Midwest.2
                    The growing presence of Asian Indians here and elsewhere in 
                  M. Gail Hickey is professor of educational studies at Indiana University-Purdue
                            University-Fort 
                                Wayne
                            . She wishes to thank the Indiana Historical Society and IU 
                                Bloomington
                             for providing financial support for this project. Special thanks also are due
                            to the folks at the Center for the Study of History and Memory, IU 
                                Bloomington
                            , for their encouragement and support during critical stages of the project.
                  
                     1 U.S., Census Bureau, We the People: Asians in the 
                                    United States
                                , December 2004, http://www.census.gov/prod/2004pubs/censr-17.pdf;
                            U.S., Census Bureau, American Fact Finder, Fact Sheet for Asian Indian Alone or in Any
                            Combination, http://factfinder.census.gov.
                  
                     2 Herbert R. Barringer, David T. Takeuchi, and Peter Xenos,
                            "Education, Occupational Prestige, and Income of Asian Americans," Sociology of Education, 63 (January 1990), 27-43; H. S. Bhola, 
               
                     the U.S., and the diversity of their experiences, calls for new
                    study and interpretive techniques that can suitably capture their memories and preserve their
                    experiences.
            Traditionally, scholars studied immigration history through the use of ships' passenger
                    lists, federal statistics and, where available, documents, diaries, letters, and other memoirs.
                    During the lifetimes of contemporary immigrants, however, the ready availability of telephones, fax
                    machines, and e-mail has made letter writing and the keeping of diaries almost a lost art.
                    Fortunately, oral history provides a way to access contemporary immigrants' narratives
                    about their experience. Such primary sources represent nothing less than history in the
                    making-firsthand accounts captured at a distinct moment in the acculturation process- that may prove
                    vital to historians and other researchers later attempting to understand the larger picture of
                    American immigration and assimilation. Allesandro Portelli commends oral-history research for its
                    firsthand insights into people's interpretations of their personal and historical
                    experiences. Donald Ritchie says oral history may well be the modern substitute for the written
                    memoir. Numerous scholars address oral history's capacity to document vital information
                    about memory, culture, class, race, ethnicity, gender, and power. In brief, today's social
                    research is tomorrow's historical documentation.3
            
            
               "Asian Indians," in Peopling Indiana: The Ethnic
                        Experience, ed. Robert M. Taylor Jr. and Connie A. McBirney (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996), 38-53; Margaret A. Gibson, Accommodation Without Assimilation:
                            Sikh Immigrants in an American High School (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1988); Arthur W. Helweg and Usha M. Helweg, An Immigrant
                            Success Story: East Indians in America (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1990); Beloo Mehra, "The Home-School Relations: An Exploration into the
                        Perspectives of Parents and Schools on Asian Indian Cultural Model of Schooling," (PhD
                        diss., University of 
                            Illinois
                         at 
                            Urbana
                        -
                            Champaign
                        , 1998); Gargi R. Sodowsky and John C. Carey, "Asian Indian Immigrants in
                        America: Factors Related to Adjustment," Journal of Multicultural
                            Counseling and Development, 15 (July 1987), 129-41; Esther L. Yao,
                        "Understanding Indian Immigrant Learners," Elementary School
                            Guidance and Counseling, 23 (April 1989), 298-305.
               
                  3 Allesandro Portelli, The Death of Luigi Trastuili and Other
                            Stories: Form and Meaning in Oral History (
                            Albany
                        , N.Y., 1991), 1-28; Donald Ritchie, "Introduction," in Corrine A.
                        Krause, Grandmothers, Mothers, and Daughters: Oral Histories of Three Generations
                            of Ethnic American Women (
                            Boston
                        , 1991), iii; Jack Dougherty, "From Anecdote to Analysis: Oral Interviews
                        and New Scholarship in Educational History," Journal of American
                        History, 86 (June 1999), 712-23; Antoinette Errante, "But Sometimes
                        You're Not Part of the Story: Oral Histories and Ways of Remembering and
                        Telling," Educational Researcher, 29 (March 2000), 16-27; Barbara
                        Finkelstein, "Revealing Human Agency: The Uses of Biography in the Study of Educational
                        History," in Writing Educational Biography: Exploration in Qualitative
                            Research, ed. Craig Kridel (
                            New York
                        , 1998), 45-59; Michele Foster, Black Teachers on Teaching (
                            New York
                        , 1997); Michael A. Frisch, A Shared Authority: Essays on the Craft and
                            Meaning of Oral and Public History (
                            Albany
                        , N.Y., 1990).
            
            
            This article presents and analyzes a summary of oral-history interviews with ninety Asian Indian
                    immigrants who reside in Indiana. Conducted between 1994 and 2002 among Asian Indians from northern,
                    central, and southern Indiana, the interviews in this project provide information about
                    immigrants' daily life in the U.S., marriage customs, family life, religious traditions,
                    and methods for defining ethnic identity4 Participants present some views
                    clearly attributable to generational difference-first-generation adult immigrants shared certain
                    obvious traits when compared to second-generation individuals who were born and/or raised in
                    Indiana-but as a rule, their views of Indian and American cultural practices vary greatly from each
                    other. Taken as a whole, the interviews demonstrate significant intergroup diversity among Asian
                    Indians in Indiana. This article explores their accounts of cultural encounter, their conceptions of 
                        India
                    , their lives in Indiana, and their reflections on the interaction of identity and
                    tradition.
            Not only do the data presented here challenge media stereotypes, they also demonstrate the inadequacy
                    of past scholarly methods for exploring immigrant experience. Early models of assimilation, such as
                    those put forth by historian Oscar Handlin or sociologist Milton M. Gordon, viewed acculturation as
                    a sequential and unidirectional process that could not be resisted or changed.5
                    Later models, such as that offered by historian John Bodnar in The Transplanted
                    (1985), provided a more nuanced view of immigration history by combining it with the precise 
                  
                     4 Ninety persons from the Indian subcontinent voluntarily participated
                            in this study designed to explore Asian Indians' experiences of immigration and
                            cultural change. Time spent in the 
                                United States
                             ranged from 2 to 42 years and, at the time of their interviews, all
                            participants resided in a midwestern state. Ages of interviewees varied from 18 to 64 years;
                            just over 60 percent were male. Participants in this project reflect the diverse regional,
                            religious, and language makeup of the Indian subcontinent (more so than the general U.S.
                            Indian population). When possible, husbands and wives were interviewed in their own homes
                            simultaneously by a male/female research team. An open-ended questionnaire combined with a
                            semi-structured interview design facilitated the collection of richly textured narratives.
                            All interviews (from two to four hours in length) were tape recorded, transcribed, and
                            checked by interviewees for accuracy and clarity. Contextualist paradigms provided a
                            theoretical structure for data gathering and analysis. Lloyd H. Rogler,
                            "International Migrations: A Framework for Directing Research," American Psychologist, 49 (August 1994), 701-708. In the text of this
                            article, some names have been changed to preserve anonymity.
                  
                     5 Oscar Handlin, The Uprooted: The Epic Story of the
                                Great Migrations that Made the American People (
                                Boston
                            , 1951); Milton M. Gordon, Assimilation in American Life: The Role
                                of Race, Religion, and National Origins (
                                New York
                            , 1964).
               
                     quantifying tools and the social activism of the new social
                    history. Yet, the diversity of Asian Indian experience requires a still broader and more flexible
                    framework than those employed for the retrospective study of European immigration.6 I subscribe to psychologist Dina Birman's more open-ended view of acculturation as
                    "those phenomena which result when groups of individuals having different cultures come
                    into continuous first-hand contact with subsequent changes in the original pattern of either or both
                        groups."7 Such a view allows for the possibility of what some
                    scholars have called bi-cultural competence, a theory which suggests that, given proper conditions,
                    immigrants and their children will become highly functioning members of the adopted society while
                    they selectively retain elements of the birth culture.8
            
            This study is significant for what it can tell us about Indiana, a state not normally known for its
                    high degree of ethnic diversity. The history of Indiana's early settlement, however, is
                    linked to peoples of diverse origin.9 Since the 1965 Immigration and
                    Naturalization Act, the population of Indiana, like other states, has quietly changed to reflect
                    once again the dynamism of global population movements. The oral history project summarized here
                    documents a specific, understudied, contemporary immigrant group in Indiana as an initial step
                    toward recasting Indiana history to better reflect the state's growing diversity. By 2000,
                    the children of many first-generation Asian Indians were reaching young adulthood and beginning to
                    raise families of their own. Capturing the experiences and perceptions of Indiana's Asian
                    Indian population at this new and fast-changing stage can help future historians document the
                    immigrants' arrival, their acculturation to American society, and their impact upon the
                    culture of Indiana.
            
               
                  6 Rita Chi-Ying Chung and Marjorie Kagawa-Singer, "Predictors of
                        Psychological Distress among Southeast Asian Refugees," Social Science and
                            Medicine, 36, 1 (1993), 631-39.
               
                  7 Dina Birman, "Acculturation and Human Diversity in a
                        Multicultural Society," in Human Diversity: Perspectives on People in
                            Context, ed. Edison J. Trickett, RoderickJ. Watts, and Dina Birman (
                            San Francisco
                        , 1994), 261-84.
               
                  8 John W. Berry, Ype H. Poortinga, Marshall H. Segall, and Pierre R.
                        Dasen, Cross-Cultural Psychology: Research and Applications (
                            New York
                        , 1992).
               
                  9 Bhola, "Asian Indians," 38-53.
            
            
            ASIAN INDIAN IMMIGRATION TO THE UNITED STATES
            The experiences of late twentieth- and early twenty-first-century Asian Indians in Indiana contrast
                    starkly with those of Asian Indian "pioneer" immigrants in early twentieth-century
                    America. Sikh males from the western Indian state of Punjab, one of the earliest documented groups
                    of Asian Indian immigrants, arrived in the 
                        United States
                     between 1907 and 1914. Bringing considerable farming skills and patience for working
                    long hours under a hot sun, they found employment as laborers and foremen on the West Coast.
                    Eventually they married Mexican women-many of whom were themselves recent immigrants to the 
                        United States
                    , having fled from the violence of the Mexican revolution.10
            
            Following on the heels of the Sikhs came students from north and east 
                        India
                    . Many sought refuge in the 
                        United States
                     after having agitated for 
                        India
                    's independence. The students hoped to be able to vent their pro-independence
                    (and often anti-British) sentiments in the U.S. without fear of repercussion. Unfortunately, the
                    federal government proved unsympathetic to their political leanings and placed harsh restrictions
                    upon Indian Asian immigrant communities.
            The U.S. Immigration Act of 1917 had barred all Asian immigrants from gaining citizenship. The U.S.
                    Supreme Court's 1923 ruling that Asian Indians were Asians forced many previously
                    naturalized Asian Indian citizens to give up their citizenship. With this ruling, legal immigration
                    of Asian Indians to the 
                        United States
                     came to an end. Not until the passage of the Atlantic Charter in 1941 did Asian Indians
                    (along with other Asian immigrants such as Japanese and Koreans) receive the right to become
                    American citizens. Even then, the number of Asian Indian immigrants to the 
                        United States
                     was almost too small to count. Nearly fifty years would pass before large groups of
                    Asian Indian immigrants would again arrive in the 
                        United States
                    .11
            
            
               
                  10 Gibson, Accommodation without Assimilation, 41.
               
                  11 Surinder J. Bhardwaj and N. Madhusudana Rao, "Asian Indians in
                        the 
                            United States
                        : A Geographic Appraisal," in South Asians Overseas: Migration
                            and Ethnicity, ed. Colin Clarke, Ceri Peach, and Steven Vertovec (
                            New York
                        , 1990), 197-217; Joan M. Jensen, "East Asians," in 
                            Harvard
                        
                        Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups, ed. Stephan Thernstrom (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1980), 296-301; Emily C. 
                            Brown
                        , Har Dayal: Hindu Revolutionary and Rationalist (Tucson, Ariz.,
                        1975).
            
            
            The 1965 Immigration and Naturalization Act raised the restrictive immigration quotas for
                    non-European nations and initiated a "third wave" of immigration composed largely
                    of Asians and Latin Americans. The act allowed legal entry for 170,000 immigrants per year from the
                    eastern hemisphere, with a limit of 20,000 from any one country, and gave preference to those with
                    needed occupational skills and to family members of permanent residents. On one hand, this change in
                    immigration policy represents an American sense of cultural pluralism emerging out of the civil
                    rights movement's challenge to racist legal codes and institutions. On the other hand,
                    lawmakers also recognized that welleducated and skilled immigrants from the developing world could
                    meet growing labor shortfalls in medicine, engineering, research science, and higher education.
                    Thus, the 1965 immigration law opened the door to a select, but significant, number of Asian Indian
                    immigrants.
            Modern immigrants originate from across the Indian nation rather than from a single region. Although
                    the largest numbers of immigrants come from the western state of Gujarat, significant numbers
                    continue to come from more northerly Punjab, from the eastern state of West Bengal, and from
                    southern states such as Kerala and Tamil Nadu. They are less likely than their predecessors to
                    settle in ethnic enclaves, choosing instead to take up residence throughout urban and suburban
                    areas. Geographic dispersion stems largely from the generally high socioeconomic status of
                    immigrants arriving in the 1960s and 1970s, many of whom came to the 
                        United States
                     to pursue post-graduate education and/or professional opportunities in the fields of
                    medicine, engineering, and science. Most of these immigrants chose to live alongside upwardly mobile
                    colleagues in suburban areas rather than in ethnic neighborhoods.12 There are,
                    however, concentrated areas of Asian Indians in 
                  Los
                        Angeles, New York, Chicago
               , and 
                        Houston
                    . Madhulika Khandelwal, an Asian Indian and professor at Queens College in 
                        New York
                    , writes: "These neighborhoods are receiving areas and there's a
                    pattern of immigrants 
                  
                     12 Bhardwaj and Rao, "Asian Indians in the 
                                United States
                            ," 197-217; Kan V Chandras, "Training Multiculturally
                            Competent Counselors to Work with Asian Indian Americans," Counselor
                                Education & Supervision, 37 (September 1997), 50-60; Helweg and Helweg, An Immigrant Success Story, 108-33; Marcia Mogelonsky,
                            "Asian-Indian Americans," American Demographics, 17
                            (August 1995), 32-39; Ronald Takaki, Strangers From a Different Shore: A
                                History of Asian Americans (
                                Boston
                            , 1989).
               
                    
                    
                  Indian states and cities Modern Indian immigrants come from many regions of 
                                India
                            , including Punjab, Kerala, West Bengal, and Tamil Nadu U.S. Central
                            Intelligence Agency, courtesy Indiana University Geography and Map Library
               
                     grants first arriving here" where they "set
                    up networks and resources" and then "later move to higher income, more suburban
                        residences."13
            
            Until 1980, Indian immigrants in the 
                        United States
                     lacked any "official" unique racial identity as they were stuck
                    somewhere between black and white. In 1975, the Association of Indians in America submitted that
                    "Indians are different in appearance; they are equally darkskinned as other non-white
                    individuals and are, therefore, subject to the same prejudices."14 In
                    response to such calls for recognition, the U.S. Census Bureau began differentiating Asian subgroups
                    in 1980. The newfound distinctions created both frustration and esteem throughout the Asian Indian
                    American population.
            Between 1980 and 1990, the Asian Indian population in the U.S. increased 125.6 percent, totaling
                    815,219 by 1990. That population more than doubled in the next decade to over 1.9 million by the end
                    of the twentieth century. Census 2000 data show the greatest concentration of the Asian Indian
                    population in the 
                        New York
                     City/
                        New Jersey
                     area (200,000), followed by 
                        Los Angeles
                     (69,000) and the 
                        Chicago
                    /Gary area (60,000). Sixty-one percent of Asian Indian adults hold a college degree.
                    Sixty percent of employed U.S. Asian Indians hold managerial or professional positions; 30 percent
                    work in technical, sales, or administrative support positions; the remaining 10 percent work in
                    other fields. More than 5,000 serve as faculty at U.S. colleges or universities.15
            
            ASIAN INDIANS IN INDIANA
            Indiana's Asian Indian population has mirrored the nation's in its rapid growth,
                    increasing from 361 persons in 1960 to nearly 17,000 in 2004. As holds true nationally, the
                    state's Asian Indian population tends to reside in or near major metropolitan areas.
                    However, Asian Indian immigrants in the Hoosier state bear two significant distinctions. Unlike
                    Asian Indian communities in 
                        California
                     or 
                        New York
                    , where the vast 
                  
                     13 Madhulika S. Khandelwal, Becoming American, Being
                                Indian: An Immigrant Community in 
                                    New York
                                 City (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 2002), 89.
                  
                     14 Vinay Lai, "Establishing Roots, Engendering Awareness: A
                            Political History of Asian Indians in the 
                                United States
                            ," in ‘Live Like the Banyan Tree’:
                                Images of the Indian American Experience, ed. Leela Prasad (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1999), 42-48.
                  
                     15 U.S., Department of Commerce and Census Bureau, We the
                                Americans: Asians, September 1993, http://www.census.gov/apsd/wepeople/we-3.pdf;
                            U.S., Census Bureau, American Fact Finder, Fact Sheet for Asian Indian Alone or in Any
                            Combination and U.S., Census Bureau, Fact Finder, Data Set, 2004 American Community Survey,
                            http://factfinder.census.gov.
               
                     majority of immigrants live in urban city centers, Asian
                    Indians in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     tend to settle in suburban areas near universities. Moreover, Indiana's Asian
                    Indian population differs from those in other states (including 
                        Illinois
                    ) in that it has formed no Indian neighborhoods or ethnic enclaves.
            In terms of income and educational attainment, Indiana's Asian Indians resemble their
                    counterparts in other states. The median family income of Asian Indians residing in Indiana was
                    $56,630 in 1999, in a state where the $41,567 overall median income fell short
                    of the $42,100 national average. This trend holds true in states with large Asian Indian
                    populations, such as 
                  New York, California
               , and 
                        New Jersey
                     (the nationwide median Asian Indian income was $69,470). One explanation for
                    these higher-than-average income figures may be found in the data on immigrants'
                    educational attainment. Researchers have noted that Asian Indian immigrants as a group tend to have
                    more years of education than the U.S. population as a whole.16 This trend holds
                    true in Indiana: according to the 2000 census, 71 percent of the state's adult Asian Indian
                    residents possessed at least the equivalent of a bachelor's degree, compared to 19.4
                    percent of the general adult population.17
            
            Indiana's Asian Indians differ from their counterparts nationwide in other ways. An
                    overwhelming majority of U.S. Asian Indian immigrants are Hindu, with only minor representation from
                    the Islamic, Sikh, and Christian faiths. Nationally, there are high concentrations of Asian Indian
                    immigrants from Gujurat and Punjab. Indiana's Asian Indian community represents all of 
                        India
                    's major geographic regions, languages, and cultures. Furthermore, Hindu, Sikh,
                    Christian, and Muslim immigrants are scattered throughout Indiana's various metropolitan
                    and suburban areas. Thus, the Asian Indians who participated in this project reflect-more so than
                    the general U.S. Indian population-the diverse regional, religious, and language makeup of the
                    Indian subcontinent.
            THE EXPERIENCE OF CULTURAL ENCOUNTER
            Asian Indian immigrants' sense of self, as well as their sense of their place in the U.S.
                    and in Indiana, appears to be characterized by an overarching sense of personal and social
                    diversity. Some of this perception 
                  
                     16 Bhardwaj and Rao, "Asian Indians in the 
                                United States
                            ," 197-217.
                  
                     17 U.S., Census Bureau, American Fact Finder, Fact Sheet for Asian
                            Indian Alone or in Any Combination and Fact Sheet for Indiana,
                        http://factfinder.census.gov.
               
                     may grow out of 
                        India
                    's dramatic internal differences as a nation that recognizes sixteen national
                    languages (including English, which is taught in most schools) and four prominent religious
                    communities: Hindu, Muslim, Christian, and Sikh (other religious traditions in 
                        India
                     include Jainism, Judaism, and Zoroastrianism). Hindus, who represent the largest
                    religious group in 
                        India
                     at almost 83 percent of the population, also make up the largest group of Asian Indian
                    immigrants to the 
                        United States
                    .18 Over several centuries, rules from Hindu scripture pertaining to
                    diet, marriage, ritual, and all matters of social custom have permeated daily Indian culture and
                    society. In spite of Hinduism's influence over Asian Indian traditions, considerable
                    diversity can be found throughout 
                        India
                    's geographic and cultural regions. The regional and religious diversity of
                    Asian Indian immigrants in Indiana presents itself in a variety of ways through their own words.
            Vellore, an engineer in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , describes how different regions in 
                        India
                     reflect the diversity of the people: "I want to touch upon something about on
                    the cultural side, to give you a flavor as to how multicultural [are] the religion, the language,
                    the traditions, and the different variations of the Indian people who live in different states
                    … . [T]he cuisine, the food, the habits, what they eat, when they eat-it is so
                    drastically different."19
            
            Mahese, a university student in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , also discusses regional differences in dietary traditions: "I live in South 
                        India
                    . Okay, so the contrasts between North Indian and South Indian are pretty different. We
                    eat spicy foods. They eat more like, you know, sweet food."
            Whereas most Jain and many Hindu communities follow vegetarian diets, some Hindus from coastal
                    regions-such as West Bengal or Kerala-are more likely to eat chicken and fish. Followers of the Sikh
                    tradition are typically meat eaters and do not follow the same restrictions as the Hindus. Today,
                    one is likely to find vegetarian foods and Indian spices in most large American grocery stores,
                    including those in 
                  
                     18 Prema Kurien, "Gendered Ethnicity: Creating a Hindu Indian
                            Identity in the 
                                United States
                            ," American Behavioral Scientist, 42 (January 1999),
                            648-70; R. Stephen Warner, "Work in Progress Toward a New Paradigm for the
                            Sociological Study of Religion in the 
                                United States
                            ," American Journal of Sociology, 98 (March 1993),
                            1044-93.
                  
                     19 The tapes and transcripts of some of the interviews cited herein
                            are from the Indian American Communities oral history collections, #065-#068, Center for the
                            Study of Memory and History, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. Additional materials for other interviews remain in the
                            author's possession.
               
                     Indiana. However, immigrants who arrived before the 1970s and
                    1980s obtained nourishing vegetarian food or spices only with great difficulty. One interviewee who
                    arrived in Indiana in the late 1960s comments: "When I came to Purdue, I mean, it was very
                    difficult to cook and, because I was not a good cook. We didn't get any of the spices and
                    things of that type to make the food good. We had no cars, you know, so it used to be a friend would
                    take us to the grocery store. So it was a little bit difficult because of the food problem, you
                    know?" Other interviewees recall getting together with fellow Asian Indians to make monthly
                    trips to 
                        Chicago
                    's Devon Street for food and spices. Several remember their first few months as
                    vegetarian Hindus in the U.S. for the endless amounts of salad and cheese sandwiches on white bread.
            As an alternative, many Asian Indian immigrants felt obligated to give up certain dietary habits that
                    they had maintained strictly while in 
                        India
                     out of religious or moral obligations. Says Meera: "By religion, [in my
                    family] we are Hindus. We don't eat beef so that's one thing. But we have adapted
                    to that also, so [eating beef is] fine, but not on a regular basis. If it's served once in
                    a while, I might eat it. But I am not too strict, and that's why I do that."
                    Divia's family in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     is typical of most interviewees in that they tend to eat traditional Indian food at
                    home and American food outside the home. "I make Indian food every day. We eat out
                    ‘American food,’" she says. Mehjabeen, a graduate student in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , appreciates having Indian food with her family on a regular basis while also
                    understanding that traditional Indian cooking is very time- and work-intensive. Her mother,
                    Mehjabeen reports, "always cooks Indian food, and meals take a while to make. By the time I
                    get home, she's exhausted."
            Vellore discusses his family's attempts to retain Asian Indian dietary traditions at home:
                    "We still, for the most part, cook Indian food. That's what we eat. We of course
                    enjoy ‘American food,’ too! But as you probably know, if you don't
                    watch out ‘American food’ tends to be more fat laden, so we try to avoid that.
                    So we still stick to the Indian cuisine as much as possible-vegetarian. When we do eat
                    non-vegetarian, we generally don't eat beef. We eat chicken and fish, but predominantly our
                    food consists of vegetables and fruit, and the Indian ingredients. It's generally low in
                    fat and well balanced." Rajesh and his family also try to adhere to a vegetarian diet.
                    Rajesh's family, however, is motivated by religious principles: "We eat rice,
                    curries, bread, and vegetables. I'm a vegetarian. Like around, I'd say, 30 to 40
                    percent of Indian population are  vegetarian. It's part
                    of true religion. It's kind of religious that you don't eat meat, and most of the
                    population is not supposed to eat beef."
            As with dietary practice, the Asian Indian religious experience in Indiana manifests great diversity.
                    The majority of interviewees were Hindu, although Jains, Christians, Zoroastrians, and Sikhs also
                    participated in the project. With a few exceptions, most interviewees identified themselves as
                    religious or spiritual persons. The ways in which they practice their religions and communicate
                    their devotion, however, are quite different.
            Meera suggests that there are various levels of religiosity in the Asian Indian community:
                    "There are some who are practicing every week. They get together every week. There are
                    groups of Indians who are very religious. There are groups who are kind of medium and some of whom
                    don't do anything. Probably, I would come in the medium. I go to the main festival groups,
                    some religious functions or celebrations, but not on a regular basis."
            Several interviewees describe religion as more of an abstract experience, and indicate that they do
                    not practice their religion with any sort of regularity or custom. Referring to themselves as
                    "cultural Hindus," they often consider the culture of the religion-as well as the
                    native geography and language-to be of greater value than the actual theistic qualities or rituals.
                    Anthropologists Helweg and Helweg note that for these immigrants Hindu values and belief systems
                    provide "an overriding unity [of] ideological principles."20
                    When asked about his religious affinity, Amitava responds that he is a Hindu but does not engage in
                    daily ritual or practice. For such persons, the appeal of Hinduism is often located in its secular
                    quality, and not in a doctrinaire quality that begs for regular or frequent adherence.
            Interviewees are more likely to speak of their religion as a pervasive influence on their culture and
                    belief systems than to speak of specific theological beliefs. The scarcity of Hindu temples in the
                    U.S. provides one-but by no means the only-explanation of the fact that Asian Indian Hindus worship
                    in their homes.21 Kavitha talks about the Hindu practice of puja, or worship.
                    "If you go to our houses, we have a little room or a little corner where there is a little
                    [religious symbol], and they have candles around, and little statues." Meera believes that
                    "Hinduism 
                  
                     20 Helweg and Helweg, An Immigrant Success Story,
                            180-84.
                  
                     21 Bhola, "Asian Indians," 38-53.
               
                     is just the way you live. It is not an organized religion where
                    you have to attend [regularly]. You can pray at home."
            Religion can play a central role in identity development as immigrants deal with elements of cultural
                    change, and may serve as a vehicle for cultural transmission. Some scholars suggest that Asian
                    Indian immigrants with children frequently renew their religious affiliations after arriving in the
                    U.S., viewing participation in religious celebrations and traditions as a method of
                    "raising Indian consciousness among their children."22
            
            Closely linked to religion, family issues-such as socializing with the opposite sex and arranged
                    marriages-are also part of the experience of cultural encounter. Many immigrants are hopeful that
                    their sons and daughters will choose partners from within the Asian Indian community. According to
                    several interviewees, Asian Indians consider religious affiliation a serious criterion for selecting
                    a child's marriage partner. Shahnaz, a Muslim in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , expects her daughter to marry a Muslim. "It doesn't matter from
                    where, as long as he is Muslim and he can pray and follow their religion together," she
                    says. "[If not], what will they teach their children?"
            They also expect their children to trust their elders' advice concerning potential mate
                    selection. Mitoholi, a female student born and raised in 
                        India
                    , spoke favorably of arranged marriage: "The way we view family in 
                        India
                     and here, the way American students do, it's very different. Indians, we just
                    give a lot of respect [to our parents]. That's just another reason why arranged marriages
                    happen. Daughters respect their parents; they respect their choice. They are willing to do anything
                    for their parents. If their parents want them to get married to this particular person, then they
                    will get married."
            On the other hand, Puja, a student raised in the 
                        United States
                    , says of the possibility of her parents arranging her marriage: "They know I
                    won't ever go for it. [If I were] to say maybe, ‘You look [for a mate for
                    me],’ they would be more than happy to look. My mom likes fixing people up. She knows not
                    to even think about it for me, like, because I have 
                  
                     22 Kurien, "Gendered Ethnicity," 648-70; Warner,
                            "Work in Progress," 1044-93; Steven Vertovec, "Hindus in Trinidad
                            and Britain: Ethnic Religion, Reification and the Politics of Public Space," in Nation and Migration: The Politics of Space in the South Asian Diaspora,
                            ed. Peter van der Veer (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1995), 132-56; Parmatma Saran, The Asian Indian Experience in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1985).
               
                     plenty of cousins who are older than me that are girls and need
                    to get married [before I do]. So I am just like, ‘You go worry about
                    them.’"
            Even though Puja rejects the idea of an arranged marriage for herself, she respects her
                    parents' hope that she marry a person of Indian descent. But left to her own devices, Puja
                    would prefer someone born in the 
                        United States
                     because "There are a lot of things that I just don't understand,
                    [things] that persons born in 
                        India
                     do that I just don't get. There's a lot of stuff that American-born
                    people do that, like, I do understand."
            Jay said his immigrant parents "expected me to follow [traditional] Indian paths, but I
                    almost couldn't because, I mean, I guess I could, but it was harder. I felt like it was
                    harder for me to follow along the traditional paths because of what my friends were doing.
                    That's what it seemed like everyone was doing, you know, and I didn't want to be
                    different than anyone else."
            Asian Indian immigrant experience in Indiana betrays a great variety of adaptation and acculturation.
                    Kavitha, a graduate student in 
                        Bloomington
                    , perceives such diversity as key: "I see 
                        India
                     as a very diverse country and I see the culture as being a very diverse culture. I
                    think that the one word to describe it would be diverse …. [W]hat makes me a unique
                    person is because I've, you know, cherished all these diversities."
            CONCEPTIONS OF INDIA
            Just as they do with their culture, Indiana's Asian Indian immigrants define and imagine 
                        India
                     itself in many different ways. Each interviewee remembers and defines 
                        India
                     according to personal experience. First-generation immigrants share some similar
                    experiences in 
                        India
                     and in the U.S. and, as a result, tend to remember 
                        India
                     in similar ways. For example, they grew up in 
                        India
                    , and many experienced firsthand what it was like to speak native languages, formally
                    practice their religion, attend Indian schools, and follow local social and dietary customs. Unable
                    to share such experiences, second-generation interviewees instead define and imagine 
                        India
                     according to family traditions, religious events, and family trips to 
                        India
                    . Extended family trips to 
                        India
                     were mentioned by both first- and second-generation interviewees as important factors
                    in their children's sense of identity development; most interviewees with children
                    mentioned that they travel as a family to 
                        India
                     at least every two to three years.
            
            The 
                        India
                     of today is, in many ways, quite different from the 
                        India
                     remembered by older first-generation interviewees. Modern 
                        India
                     presents two faces to the world: preindustrial and postmodern.23
                    Some larger cities in 
                        India
                     appear on the surface much like cities found in modern Western societies, with
                    McDonald's restaurants and young people in jeans. Bangalore and Hyderabad have been
                    referred to as the Silicon Valley of 
                        India
                    . Yet much of the rural population continues to live in undeveloped villages where
                    people earn their living through agriculture.
            Despite these changes and, even after recent trips to 
                        India
                    , most first-generation interviewees describe an 
                        India
                     similar to the society of their own parents' generation. They remember, for
                    example, an 
                        India
                     in which the educational system was extremely rigid and the student/teacher and
                    child/parent relationships were based on utmost respect. Often, these same persons indicated their
                    belief that the second generation has not maintained this same level of respect for authority. One
                    interviewee recalls his school days in Calcutta: "I had a very good time in school. I think
                    that the school system was rigid, with respect to the American secondary education but also more
                    pressure was placed on the students, for mathematics in general and other areas. I thought looking
                    back, knowing the basic ‘R's,’ reading, writing, and arithmetic, I
                    was better prepared there in Calcutta than my sons who get their educations here. The competition
                    was more strenuous. The schools there maintained a much higher standard."
            Jay, a second-generation interviewee, finds his first-generation "traditional
                    Indian" parents stricter than those of his American classmates. He attributes this
                    strictness to their imagined 
                        India
                    : a place which has escaped Western influence, a society where one's family
                    always comes first, a setting in which one always defers to one's elders. Jay reports that
                    in comparing their imagined 
                        India
                     to the U.S.-with its high divorce rate, gangs, alcohol and drug abuse-his parents find
                    the latter to be less than a model society. His parents, he says, often advise him,
                    "‘Oh, you know, it's not so great here. And the traditional Indian way
                    is so, so much better than the American [way].’" At times, Jay feels this
                    imagined 
                        India
                     might be employed to discourage the younger generation from adopting undesirable
                    American ways: "And they will, like, you 
                  
                     23 Vijay K. Raina and Harry Dhand, "Reflections on Teaching
                            History in the Developing World: An Indian Experience," The Social
                                Studies, 91 (March/April 2000), 84-88.
               
                     know, use examples of things that, you know, don't
                    work very well in this society and try to compare them to things that work well in the old
                    traditional Indian society."
            LIVING IN INDIANA
            Most interviewees conceptualize American society broadly in their narratives, rather than discussing
                    Indiana or the Midwest specifically. Some exceptions occur, however. Nalin, an anesthesiologist in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , recalls some negative first impressions of his new home: "Some of the
                    shocking things coming to the 
                        United States
                     for the first time, coming from 
                        India
                     [in the 1970s], the women don't smoke in 
                        India
                    . They still don't-probably 99 percent don't smoke. The guys do, but
                    the women don't. It was almost like, if a woman has a cigarette in her hand, it's
                    almost like exposing herself in public, you know, more or less, that sort of strong no-no for a
                    woman to do that." Nalin liked the area he lived in and loved his work, but felt torn about
                    raising his family so far away from 
                        India
                    . Later these impressions were outweighed by shared family experiences. "I knew
                    that if I live here and my brother lives in 
                        India
                    , we won't see each other as often as we see each other now. So, I asked my
                    brother if he would move to the 
                        United States
                    ." When Nalin's brother began a medical practice in
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , "the best thing happened," Nalin says,
                    "because while our kids were growing up and his kids were growing up, they saw each other
                    so much, to the point that they don't even call each other cousins, you know, they were
                    like brothers and sisters to each other. You know, they are very close to each other. And
                    that's something that we feel that, like, eventually when we'll be gone, they will
                    have kind of strong family ties with each other and, you know, that that will help them a
                    lot."
            Raja, a 
                        Bloomington
                     physician, interviewed for positions across the country. Of his decision to live in
                    Indiana, Raja says, "I liked the practice, I liked the town, especially the university
                    setting, I thought it would be a nice place to raise kids, so that's how we kind of decided
                    to come here." Nag, a chemist in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , debated whether to return to 
                        India
                     after completing his PhD in North America when, he reported, "I got an offer
                    from Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio. I got another offer from Eli Lilly and Company in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and I got about three offers from 
                        India
                     …. I looked at all of them, and my main aim at that time was to go to a
                    place where you could do good research in chemistry. So I joined Lilly in 1967."
            
            Bob, an insurance agent in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , moved from Punjab with his family when he was ten years old. Indiana work life has
                    presented two sides to him: "The good things are the fact that I am my own boss.
                    …I have a lot of freedom, a lot of independence. [The] down side is the fact that being a
                    minority in a state like Indiana limits me somewhat. You know, there's still a good old boy
                    network here, but I've been able to overcome some of those things, and I don't
                    make that an issue… . [W]e do have friends and relatives in other parts of the country,
                    and they say seeing an Indian's not really a big deal in 
                        California
                     and 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     even, but it definitely is more pronounced here."
            Jai, who works in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area, reports experiences similar to Bob's. While he has enjoyed an improved
                    standard of living since moving to Indiana, and acknowledges finding greater professional
                    opportunities, not everything in his career experience has been positive. "I guess the
                    discrimination would be that, if you're qualified for a certain opportunity and perhaps
                    better than [the] rest of the crowd around you, and you're still not able to receive that
                    [opportunity] …. If that is because of race, or something else, I don't
                    know," Jai mused. "Lot of time, [the discrimination is] subtle. I have run into
                    supervisors who had [that] attitude."
            Kanwal, an architect in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , reports that "things have shifted and changed for the better, and so [Asian
                    Indian immigrants] can breathe a little bit easier. When I came to the city in '67, there
                    were many incidents that would be uncomfortable." Kanwal notes how, as an orthodox Sikh who
                    wore a turban, he was asked to leave a public place, which banned hats. He responded to an
                    "Apartment for Rent" advertisement, only to be told the apartment was not
                    available. "This was something that I had already witnessed to some degree in 
                        Detroit
                    ," Kanwal recalls, "so I wasn't quite totally unfamiliar with
                    this-that this had nothing to do with the apartment being already rented out. They were
                    uncomfortable with my ethnic background and with my headdress, and with my accent. Things are
                    improving every single day in terms of people's acceptance of other people."
                    Kanwal adds that this subtle shift in tolerance of others is responsible for his active involvement
                    in the International Center at Indiana University. "Under one roof," Kanwal says
                    of the Center, "[in] one place, [people can] share their culture with one another. And not
                    only with one another, but with the community at large-show their food habits, their dances, their
                    languages, their traditions, their customs, their arts, their crafts, their ideas, their ideals. And
                         introduce them in a constructive, positive way that these
                    are all part of our community, and we [are able to] learn one from one another."
            Prema, formerly a teacher in 
                        India
                    , worked with children to counteract prejudice toward Asian Indians after she and her
                    husband Bill moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    . "I had the wonderful experience of talking to children and telling them about 
                        India
                    ," she says. Teachers in a nearby community invited Prema to visit their
                    classes where, she reports, "I gave talks on Indian issues …. I think I
                    broadened their understanding of the world and the different cultures in many ways by being there,
                    and showing and sharing with them." Prema explains how important it is for young children
                    to be exposed to cultures and ethnicities other than their own, saying: "There were
                    children who wrote me and said, I feel like visiting 
                        India
                     after your talk,' [or] 'I would never think that way about 
                        India
                     before.' It's like in their mind's image, 
                        India
                     is stuck where it was- God knows when-with just people in rags, and begging, and no
                    food and so on. They have no idea of the long history and culture of 
                        India
                    ."
            IDENTITY AND TRADITION
            The experience of cultural encounter, conceptions of 
                        India
                    , and life in Indiana all influence the interviewees' definition of identity.
                    When asked if they identified themselves as Indian, Indian American, or simply American, several
                    first-generation interviewees discuss their Indian and American identity traits. Vimal says:
                    "I am an Indian American. I have more Indian character, and I still hang on to those
                    things. Whereas [our second-generation children] are logical. They don't hang onto it. They
                    are Americans so they don't have that distinction, or prejudice if you want to call it.
                    They consider themselves American first, but you know, of Indian parents. We [of the first
                    generation] are Indian first and Americans second." Vimal's words demonstrate
                    first-generation Asian Indian immigrants' tendency to become U.S. citizens and adopt many
                    American customs, while simultaneously identifying themselves as "more Indian"
                    than their second-generation children and younger Indian acquaintances.
            Interviewee responses suggest that, just as earlier Irish or Italian immigrants embraced American
                    characteristics and integrated them into their lives, so too do members of Asian Indian communities
                    combine Indian and American traits in order better to assimilate into the American tapestry. Harbans
                    tells his son, who was born in the U.S.: "[L]ook, culture is like air. Once you are in
                    America, in 
                        Bloomington
                    ,  you are going breathe the air from, of this
                    place, you can't bring air from 
                        India
                     and so you are going to breathe the culture. But don't be in a hurry to
                    belong. And don't discard things Indian just because you feel inferior. Feel good about
                    yourself. Be proud of what you are, of your being, but then don't try to, necessarily, stop
                    the process of becoming, but don't be in a hurry and don't feel inferior in any
                    way. You're not."
            Second-generation Asian Indians inhabit a world composed of two distinct cultures: American and Asian
                    Indian. English is, for the most part, their first tongue, but they are likely to speak an Indian
                    language at the dinner table, or while visiting family at home or abroad in 
                        India
                    . Likewise, second-generation interviewees interact and socialize with fellow students
                    in a typically American manner, but are likely also to maintain some sort of social connection with
                    the local Indian community and participate in cultural events, religious programs, or
                    extracurricular activities.
            Some second-generation interviewees felt obliged to partake of religious and cultural programs and
                    events within the Asian Indian community. In reference to her father's request that she and
                    her siblings attend events sponsored by the 
                        India
                     Association (a pan-Indian social and cultural organization) events, Thara says,
                    "I don't think we ever took any ownership for it. It was my dad's thing.
                    We went because, you know, he wanted us to go. When we were little, it was just a party, there was
                    food and all that."
            Young second-generation Asian Indians, particularly those with one Asian Indian and one non-Asian
                    Indian parent, recall feeling unable to appreciate many of their parents' cultural and
                    religious traditions, especially during their adolescent years. While most second-generation
                    interviewees participated only reluctantly in community events during their formative years, these
                    persons developed a closer appreciation for Asian Indian ethnic traditions as adults. Many
                    second-generation interviewees indicated a connection between a growing appreciation for their Asian
                    Indian heritage and the desire to promote such appreciation in their own young children.
                    Thara's comments on her recent trip to 
                        India
                     are a case in point: "When I get off the plane in 
                        India
                     and the smell of 
                        India
                     hits me, it's a very familiar and comfortable smell. You know, it's
                    [a] second home in a sense. I do want my kids to have at least some of that same feeling that is a
                    part of them, that there are things about 
                        India
                     that are familiar and comfortable for them." Thara and other second-generation
                    Asian Indians often found elements of Asian Indian heritage comforting as they established their own
                    homes and began their families.
            
            
               Transmitting Indian culture across generations. Two participants in a night of
                        traditional dance, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 2004 Courtesy Indian Student Association, Indiana University
            
            The extent to which second-generation Asian Indians weave together Asian Indian and American cultural
                    fibers varies from one person to another. A few second-generation interviewees had traveled to 
                        India
                     to gain a better understanding of the country, whereas others sought knowledge from the
                    classroom, the kitchen, the local 
                        India
                     Association, or temple. Regardless of the source, second-generation Asian Indians are
                    choosing to learn more about their backgrounds, and making vital attempts to integrate them into
                    their American lifestyles. Further, many second-generation interviewees suggest that they hope to
                    pass down Indian values and traditions to their own children.
            The transmission of traditions and values resonates strongly for many Americans whose families
                    emigrated from countries such as 
                  Ireland, Poland
               , or 
                        Italy
                    . The transmission of traditions and values within Asian Indian families in Indiana
                    creates a equally strong bond between generations, and allows these relatively recent immigrants to
                    maintain similar ties with the language, food, religion, and traditions of their birth culture.
                    While some studies conducted with Asian Indians in large metropolitan areas have demonstrated that
                    the behaviors of second-generation youth are strongly influenced by non-Indian peers, analysis of
                    Indiana's Asian Indian narratives does not support this  finding.24 For example, most second-generation interviewees do not date.
                    Those who are married affirmed that they refrained from dating behaviors and co-educational
                    socializing prior to marriage. Parents tended to prefer some form of arranged marriage for their
                    children; young adults anticipated that they would, at the least, respect parental preferences
                    regarding future mate selection. First-generation interviewees restricted their children's
                    social activities to family outings or chaperoned visits with Asian Indian friends;
                    second-generation interviewees involved their children or expect to involve them in Asian Indian
                    cultural organizations and travel with their children to 
                        India
                     as ways of encouraging ethnic identity maintenance.
            CONCLUSION
            The story of Indiana's Asian Indian population has been one of an attempt to forge an Indian
                    ethnic identity that transcends the group's residential dispersion and embraces its
                    religious and cultural diversity. The 1965 Immigration and Naturalization Act provided opportunities
                    for skilled Asian Indians to settle in the 
                        United States
                    , and, over the next forty years, they did so in record numbers, expanding
                    Indiana's Asian Indian population and adding to the state's ethnic diversity. The
                    oral history project reported here contributes to a sparse but growing literature on the family
                    lives and everyday events of Asian Indian immigrants in the U.S. It also serves to provide
                    historians with firsthand accounts of the acculturative experiences of a specific immigrant group at
                    a crucial point in the group's history in the state of Indiana.
            Asian Indians living in Indiana tend to be well-educated professionals with above-average incomes who
                    reside in suburban areas near large cities and speak English fluently. Within the home, family and
                    education are valued highly, as are traditions and beliefs related to one's religion. The
                    community defines itself more by membership and/or participation in Asian Indian cultural events
                    than by residence in any type of ethnic enclave.
            Indiana's diverse Asian Indian communities effectively weave their Indian traditions and
                    values into the American tapestry. Like earlier immigrants to the 
                        United States
                    , the interviewees in this project are 
                  
                     24 Johanna Lessinger, From the Ganges to the Hudson:
                                Indian Immigrants in 
                                    New York
                                 City (
                                Boston
                            , 1995).
               
                     proud of their heritage, but they also are eager to participate
                    in the broader American experience. Most are American citizens, actively participate in local or
                    statewide activities, and send their children to public schools. At the same time, most interviewees
                    continue to honor Indian values and traditions, especially those related to family life and
                    childrearing.
            Currently, Indian food products are widely available and, in most metropolitan areas, there is at
                    least one 
                        India
                     Association or religious center. In their continued support for the more traditional
                    aspects of Indian culture, Asian Indian families in Indiana have more in common with their
                    counterparts in 
                        England
                     and 
                        Canada
                     than with Asian Indian families in larger U.S. cities.25 This
                    finding supports the body of immigration research which suggests that Asian immigrant parents in
                    particular may resist changing traditional family values. Researchers have found that length of
                    residence in the adopted country is not positively correlated with changes in parental attitudes and
                    behaviors. Many Asian immigrants, for example, continue to maintain traditional ideas about child
                    rearing, including expectations, norms, rules, and beliefs.26
            
            This oral history project also illuminates Asian Indian immigrants' bi-cultural competence.
                    Interviewees discuss selectively retained traditions of their birth culture, educational and
                    occupational experience in both 
                        India
                     and the U.S., and factors influencing adjustment to American society. They give special
                    emphasis to their personal perspectives of 
                        India
                    , and to their adjustment experiences. Values, traditions of social and familial
                    behavior, and religious beliefs retained by Asian Indian immigrants and transmitted to the second
                    generation have allowed members of the group to interact effectively within American society while
                    continuing to identify themselves as Asian Indians. Second-generation 
                  
                     25 Vanaja Dhruvarajan, "Ethnic Cultural Retention and
                            Transmission among First Generation Hindu Asian Indians in a Canadian 
                                Prairie
                             City," Journal of Comparative Family Studies, 24
                            (Spring 1993), 63-79; Avtar Brah, "Women of South Asian Origin in Britain: Issues
                            and Concerns," in Racism and Antiracism: Inequalities, Opportunities
                                and Policies, ed. Peter Braham, Ali Rattansi, and Richard Skellington (
                                London
                            , 1992), 64-78.
                  
                     26 Zha B. Xiong, Patricia A. Eliason, Daniel F. Detzner, and Michael
                            J. 
                                Cleveland
                            , "Southeast Asian Immigrants' Perceptions of Good Adolescents
                            and Good Parents," The Journal of Psychology, 139, 2 (2005),
                            15-175; Robert A. LeVine, "Human Parental Care: Universal Goals, Cultural
                            Strategies, Individual Behavior," in Parental Behavior in Diverse
                                Societies, ed. LeVine, Patrice M. Miller, and Mary Maxwell West (
                                San Francisco
                            , 1988), 3-12; Nga Anh Nguyen and Harold L. Williams, "Transition from
                            East to West: Vietnamese Adolescents and their Parents," Journal of
                                the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 28 (Juty 1989),
                        505-15.
               
                    
                    
                  Inauguration ceremony of the Hindu Temple of Central Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , February 4, 2006 Courtesy Hindu Temple of Central Indiana
                interviewees' perceptions of 
                        India
                     often differ from those of the first generation, and Asian Indian immigrants'
                    strong sense of diversity emerges as an overarching theme. It is perhaps their home lives that most
                    set Asian Indians in Indiana apart from their non-Indian neighbors. Interviewees consistently
                    contrasted their sense of self as successfully functioning bi-cultural workers and students with
                    their sense of self within the home and family environment.
            One has only to look around Indiana's larger cities to find evidence of the Asian Indian
                    presence. Several times a year, the UMAX Theater in 
                        Indianapolis
                     shows Bollywood films produced in Mumbai (Bombay). Last year, the 
                        India
                     newspaper Economics Times reported on Bollywood's growing popularity in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , as evidenced by the entertainment selections featured by local movie theater
                        outlets.27 In February 2006, the Hindu Temple of Central Indiana opened its
                    doors on the (far) east 
                  
                     27 Chidanand Rajghatta, "From 
                                India
                             to Indiana," The Economic Times Online, September 5,
                            2005, http://economictimes.lndiatimes.com.
               
                     side of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These changes point to the dynamic cultural landscape of the Hoosier state. The
                    authors of Sacred Circles, Public Squares (2003) recently described 
                        Indianapolis
                     in a manner that seems especially appropriate: "The picture of [
                        Indianapolis
                    ] as kind of a white-bread, purely mainstream Protestant town hasn't been true
                    for a century. But it is even less true now."28
            
            
               
                  28 Arthur E. Farnsley II, N. J. Demerath III, Etan Diamond, Mary Mapes,
                        and Elfriede Wedam, Sacred Circles, Public Squares: The Multicentering of American
                            Religion (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 2003), 8.
            
         
         
         
            REVIEW ESSAYS
            
                    Et in Arcadia
                
            The Growing Market for Local History
            PATRICK J. FURLONG
            Arcadia Publishing has brought out an amazing number of brief and reasonably priced works on local
                    history during the past few years, but these are books of very uneven quality and value. They range
                    from the intensely local (a single city park in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ), to the very personal (a memoir of 1950s 
                        Kokomo
                    ), to the carefully documented social history of an immigrant community (the Germans in 
                        South Bend
                    ).1 Arcadia's editorial touch is light; many of these books
                    would have benefited from stronger professional support. Unfortunately for librarians and anyone
                    attempting a subject search, none of them includes the customary Library of Congress
                    Cataloging-in-Publication Data.
            
               Patrick J. Furlong is professor emeritus of history at Indiana University 
                            South Bend
                        . He is author of Indiana: An Illustrated History (2d ed., 2001)
                        and a forthcoming history of 
                            St. Joseph County
                        .
               Editor's note: All of the books cited herein have the same publisher and nearly all
                        have the same city of publication. After the first citation in note 1, only variations from this
                        pattern will be noted.
               
                  1 Geoff Paddock, Headwaters Park: Fort 
                                Wayne
                            's Lasting Legacy (Images of America series;
                        
                            Chicago
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2002); Thomas D. 
                            Hamilton
                        , 
                            Kokomo
                        , Indiana (.Images of America series, 2002); Gabrielle Robinson,
                            German Settlers of 
                                South Bend
                             (Voices of America series, 2003).
            
            
            These volumes deal only sporadically in controversial or once-neglected topics. The Ku Klux Klan is
                    never mentioned in the 
                        Kokomo
                     book, but it plays a prominent part in the studies of 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Valparaiso
                    . Ethnic minorities are neglected in 
                  Elkhart, Kokomo, La
                            Porte, Michigan
                City, and 
                        Valparaiso
                    , but receive full coverage for 
                        South Bend
                    .2 Hoosier High School Basketball mentions neither the
                    longsegregated state tournament nor specific African American players-not even Oscar Robertson-but
                    African American players and teams play a vital role in Baseball in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .3 Chronological coverage is similarly uneven-
                        Elkhart
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     City history apparently came to a close around 1930, while 
                        Jeffersonville
                    's story ends with the great Ohio River flood of 1937. The 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Valparaiso
                     authors carry their accounts to the end of the twentieth century, while the highly
                    detailed story of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's Headwaters Flood Control and Park Project extends only from 1913 to 1999.4
            
            Most of these histories are clearly intended for a local audience-a small group indeed for the
                    narrowly specialized Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Portage Township, and beach communities books.5 High school
                    basketball may be the unofficial state religion of Indiana, but Bob Adams supplies only a one-page
                    introduction to his photograph collection on the subject, which is filled with pictures of gyms,
                    coaches, and posed teams. Only two action shots appear among the book's two-hundred-plus
                    images. In sharp contrast, W C. Madden's baseball book tells a fascinating story of the
                    long effort to maintain professional teams in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The pictures are clearly reproduced, and full of human interest. Madden's 
                        Indianapolis
                     postcard book, on the other hand, has no story line, merely 
                  
                     2 John Palmer, 
                                South Bend
                            : Crossroads of Commerce (The Making of America series;
                            
                                Charleston
                            , S.C., 2003); Lanette Mullins, 
                                Valparaiso
                            : Looking Back, Moving Forward (Images of America series,
                            2002); Amy (Lant) Wenger, 
                                Elkhart
                            , Indiana (Images of America series, 2002); 
                                La Porte County
                             Historical Society, Inc. Archival Preservation Committee, 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, and its Environs (Images of America series, 2002);
                            Barbara Stodola, 
                                    Michigan
                                 City Beach Communities: Sheridan, Long Beach, Duneland, Michiana Shores
                                (Images of America series, 2003).
                  
                     3 Bob Adams, Hoosier High School Basketball (Images of
                                Sports series, 2002); W. C. Madden, Baseball in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 (Images of Baseball series, 2003).
                  
                     4 Garry J. Nokes, Jejjersonville, Indiana (Images of
                                America series, 2002).
                  
                     5 Dennis 
                                Norman
                             and James Wright for the Portage Community Historical Society, Portage Township (Images of America series, 2003).
               
                     a half-page introduction followed by a publisher's
                    curse of color images reproduced in black-and-white (not one of them credited).6
            
            Two of these histories-curiously both about 
                        South Bend
                    -depart from Arcadia's more common image series pattern. John Palmer is a
                    librarian rather than a historian, and his work is far stronger on facts than interpretation. But
                    his book is most emphatically a work of history, relying primarily on its text rather than its
                    illustrations, supported by endnotes and an extensive bibliography. Palmer's coverage is
                    episodic and sometimes eccentric-there is virtually nothing here about politics, while a 1934 bank
                    robbery by the Dillinger gang receives four full pages-and he sometimes jumps from topic to topic,
                    but he is attentive to the concerns of 
                        South Bend
                    's many ethnic minorities. His coverage of the civil rights movement is both
                    thorough and sensitive, particularly when he discusses the west side "riot" of
                    1967.
            Gabrielle Robinson is both a professor of literature and a native German-speaker; her study of the
                    German community of 
                        South Bend
                     is solidly based on primary sources-mostly in German-supported by more than 250
                    endnotes but, unfortunately, no index. As they were in many other Hoosier cities-particularly 
                        Evansville
                    , Fort 
                  Wayne, Hammond
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    -Germans were the most prominent and successful ethnic minority in nineteenth-century 
                        South Bend
                    . A significant number of them came (mostly for economic reasons) from Arzberg, in upper
                    Bavaria. In 
                        South Bend
                    , as in other Hoosier cities, the most vital organization of the German community was
                    the Turnverein, a combination gymnasium, social club, and cultural center. In addition to
                    gymnastics, German-immigrant families also dominated 
                        South Bend
                    's musical life and brewing business well into the twentieth century.
            When the 
                        United States
                     declared war against 
                        Germany
                     in 1917 millions of German-Americans demonstrated their patriotism by
                    "forgetting" their language and their heritage, becoming almost invisible in the
                    American ethnic mosaic. Only later in the twentieth century did Americans of German ancestry again
                    celebrate their heritage. Robinson's thorough account of the German community in 
                        South Bend
                    -men and women, Jews and Protestants, merchants and farmers-is a major contribution in
                    social history.
            
               
                  6 W. C. Madden, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        in Vintage Postcards (Postcard History series, 2003).
            
            
            What can be said about this baker's dozen of Arcadia books? They are well-printed,
                    generously if not always clearly illustrated, but mostly weak in notes, bibliography, and index.
                    None of the authors is a professional historian, although Lanette Mullins and Garry Nokes earned
                    undergraduate degrees in history. Only Gabrielle Robinson is a university-based scholar, although
                    her specialization is literature, not history. Obviously Arcadia does not intend its books for
                    historians, although historians can indeed make good use of some of them, especially German Settlers of 
                            South Bend
                        . Local readers may enjoy the studies of 
                  Elkhart, Kokomo
               , and 
                        La Porte
                    , but the serious histories of these cities remain to be written. 
                  Jeffersonville, South
                    Bend
               , and 
                        Valparaiso
                     are better served, but much more needs to be done. The Portage Township, Headwaters
                    Park, and 
                        Michigan
                     City beach communities books are so intensely local that Arcadia can scarcely hope to
                    cover its costs. Hoosier High School Basketball is a major disappointment, but Baseball in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                is good sports history at the local level. As a rule, the press's
                    editors should be reminded that while postcards can be an important source of historical
                    information, their original publishers and dates must be documented and their original colors ought
                    to be reproduced faithfully. Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History should
                    approach Arcadia's books with caution, always keeping in mind that amateur historians
                    sometimes write books which professional historians-and others-ought to read.
         
         
         
            Saving the Daylights Out of Saving Daylight
            MICHAEL MARTONE
            
                    Once, in the middle of a fall night, I was riding the 
                            Broadway
                         Limited west from 
                            New York
                         to Fort 
                            Wayne
                         when the train came to a squeaking, creaking halt in the middle of an 
                            Ohio
                         cornfield. Such delays are not all that unusual on Amtrak, which runs its routes
                        over private rails. Passenger trains are often shunted off to a siding to give the proprietor
                        freight the right-of-way. But this pause was different. Tonight the country's time was
                        falling back; time zone after time zone, time was turning back time. This wrought havoc with the
                        trains schedule. If we didn't stop, we'd actually arrive early at the next
                        station. We had to let the schedule catch up. I stood looking out over the Dutch door in the
                        vestibule between cars. Cornfields everywhere. All over the country, trains waited, panting,
                        stopped in their tracks. Out of time, I waited for the hour to overtake us all, slamming by us,
                        expedited, a true "Limited"-tracks cleared, high-balling west.
                
            Michael Downing, in his remarkable book Spring Forward, mentions this phenomenon of
                    stalled trains along with many other skewed consequences, strange and stranger, of what he calls The Annual Madness of Daylight Saving Time.
               1 His is an
                    admirable popular history of mass hysteria in a class with Michael Pollan's deciphering of
                    the Tulip 
                  Michael Martone is the author of The Blue Guide to Indiana (2001) and of
                                Michael Martone (2005). He teaches at the University of 
                                Alabama
                            .
                  
                     1 Michael Downing, Spring Forward: The Annual Madness of
                                Daylight Saving Time (
                                Washington
                            , D.C.: Shoemaker and Hoard, 2005. Pp. xiv, 202. Bibliographical references,
                            index. $23.00).
               
                     Madness in The Botany of Desire (2001) or
                    Marvin Harris's materialist decoding of the Potlatch in Cows, Pigs, Wars, and
                        Witches (1989). Not quite a 
                        Wisconsin
                    
                    Death Trip (1973), Spring Forward does however shake its head at
                    the long strange journey taken by "time" and at the strange manifestation of both
                    its pastness and its futureness-not simply figuratively but quite literally, in a persistent residue
                    and befuddled ritual, in our apparently adjustable present midst.
            
                    On another train, at another time. It was New Year's Eve and I was heading
                        west. The passengers on my coach roused themselves at midnight to sing "Auld Lang
                        Syne," a synchronized celebration with the hall dropping in Times Square, not far from
                        the terminus from which we had departed. There was improvised confetti, pitiful horns, splits of
                        champagne, opportunistic kissing. We chugged through the night, crossing, in the dark, some line
                        of demarcation. Once in Indiana we resumed our initial places, and waited for the year to end
                        again. There was another countdown. The singing started up on cue as the engine's
                        Doppler horn yodeled. The confetti defied gravity. The bubbles found their way back into the
                        champagne. Brand new kisses were minted out of the ones recently scrapped.
                
            The drama of Spring Forward lies between two notions of time: the one connected to the motion of the
                    planet, the other to the machines and schemes that regulate it in theory. It is the disconnection of
                    the first from the second that Mr. Downing stages here with great precision. He is particularly
                    adept at constructing the narrative of this conflict from the arguments of governmental hearing
                    rooms and the daily decaying "news" of newspapers. All of these embedded stories
                    boil down to the same conclusion: The more daylight saving time is studied the more confusing it
                    becomes to its students. The contemplation of time seems to infect everyone with this special
                    malaise. All seem helpless, hapless before the inevitability of this idea whose time has, well, come
                    and keeps coming.
            The book, of course, is itself trapped in a kind of time. Any book has an existential imperative of
                    beginning, middle, and end, and this one flows that way, too, starting at the beginning and moving
                    through its time as if on rails. It was the railroads (having unleashed a machine that, in fact,
                    traveled faster than time) that standardized time in the first place. This story is, of course,
                    covered here. A plaque affixed to the side of a building in 
                        Chicago
                     marks the site where time was, well, fixed by fiat, fitted out as another Midnight
                    Special, its own locomotive. No  accident, then, that Einstein
                    himself dispatched an animated example of an engine to tame the wild notions of relativity. This
                    book, but not just this book, is stuck in its own irresistible progressions of time, its
                    free-floating forwardness. Forward! Perhaps backwards. But rarely repetitious, and never
                    simultaneous. One word after the other. Alas, our time-honored timely timed madness wired, now, into
                    us.
            
                    Once, in the middle of a fall night, I was riding the 
                            Broadway
                         Limited west from 
                            New York
                         to Fort 
                            Wayne
                         when the train came to a squeaking, creaking halt in the middle of an 
                            Ohio
                         cornfield. Such delays are not all that unusual on Amtrak, which runs its routes
                        over private rails. Passenger trains are often shunted off to a siding to give the proprietor
                        freight the rightof-way. But this pause was different. Tonight the country's time was
                        falling back; time zone after time zone, time was turning back time. This wrought havoc with the
                        train's schedule. If we didn't stop, we'd actually arrive early at
                        the next station. We had to let the schedule catch up. I stood looking out over the Dutch door
                        in the vestibule between cars. Cornfields everywhere. All over the country, trains waited,
                        panting, stopped in their tracks. Out of time, I waited for the hour to overtake us all,
                        slamming by us, expedited, a true "Limited"-tracks cleared, high-balling
                    west.
                
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               At Home in the Hoosier Hills: Agriculture, Politics, and Religion in Southern
                        Indiana, 1810-1870, By Richard F. Nation (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp. xi, 274. Maps, notes, index. $35.00.)
            Richard E Nation argues that an intense sense of localism distinguishes early residents of the hill
                    country of southern Indiana from their neighbors elsewhere in the state. For Nation, this localism
                    forms an overriding and unifying theme of the region's religious, economic, and political
                    life. It explains the reluctance of southern Indiana residents to embrace some of the changes that
                    other Hoosiers considered marks of progress, a reluctance that in turn led some to label hill
                    country Hoosiers as backward and lazy.
            In religious life, residents of southern Indiana formed neighborhood congregations to which they gave
                    the power to regulate the moral life of their communities. Nation discusses German Catholics and
                    Primitive Baptists in particular; both, as he shows, remained suspicious of beliefs in human
                    perfectionism, preferring to think of humankind as innately sinful. Followers of each sect
                    distrusted reform movements, such as temperance or abolitionism, that aimed to perfect society and
                    presumed the right of outsiders to pronounce judgment on the morals of distant others.
            Residents of the Hoosier hills created what Nation terms a "surplus produce"
                    economy. Producing primarily for subsistence, they traded any surplus on the market but hesitated to
                    commit themselves fully to the risks of market production. Hogs and corn constituted the staples of
                    the agricultural economy. Neither required disciplined effort by the farmer-hogs could run wild in
                    the woods and corn could stay in the field  awaiting harvest. It
                    was largely in their failure to engage in the driven pursuit of profit, he contends, that these
                    Hoosiers earned the label of "lazy" amid the striving market culture of the early
                    nineteenth century.
            Religion and economics, of course, intersected with politics. Like other scholars, Nation finds that
                    residents of southern Indiana supported the Democratic party rather than the market-friendly,
                    moral-perfectionist Whigs. That party loyalty endured through the Civil War, although Nation asserts
                    that they remained loyal Unionists.
            Nation's study is an interesting and well-written one. Little of its discussion of religion,
                    agriculture, and politics will be new to students of the antebellum and Civil War periods. The value
                    of Nation's work lies instead in its concentration on the distinctiveness of the Indiana
                    hill country. Although he occasionally notes the existence of other subregions that shared the hill
                    country's hostility to the market, abolitionists, African Americans, and Whig/Republicans,
                    more of these comparisons would be welcome. Nation does a good job of conveying the area's
                    distinctiveness in relation to other sections of Indiana but one wonders what the hill country
                    shares in common with other regions where similar values prevailed. The subtitle's dateline
                    is somewhat misleading. Although he includes a chapter on the Civil War, Nation's
                    discussion of Southern Indiana's localistic moral, economic, and political culture focuses
                    on the pre-war period. Other omissions can be traced not to the author's discretion but to
                    the press: pages 85 and 86 were missing from my copy.
            NICOLE ETCHESON is Alexander M. Bracken professor of history at Ball State University and author
                    of Bleeding 
                            Kansas
                        : Contested Liberty in the Civil War Era (2004).
         
         
            
               Lincoln, Religion, and Romantic Cultural Politics, By Stewart Winger, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. viii, 271. Notes, bibliography, index. $38.00.)
            One of the dominant components of Lincoln studies in recent years has been the debate over the
                    sixteenth president's religion and its expression in his public life. Now Stewart Winger
                    enters the fray with this somewhat ponderous but deeply penetrating examination of Lincoln as public
                    intellectual and theologian. Hardly a beginner's book, Winger's work requires of
                    the reader considerable grounding in American intellectual history and Lincolniana. Reading it can
                    be hard work, but the labor is well invested, for Winger's contributions to the scholarly
                    discussion of Lincoln's religious thought are profound and provocative.
            
            At the heart of the book is Winger's "attempt to properly contextualize
                    Lincoln's words" (p. 7). To do this, he seeks to place Lincoln's religion
                    in a broader intellectual and cultural framework than previous historians have employed. In their
                    interpretations of Lincoln's religion, Winger asserts, scholars have engaged in a
                    "false choice," treating Lincoln as either a conventional evangelical or a skeptic
                    in the Enlightenment tradition (p. 4). What they have missed is the contribution of romanticism to
                    the president's thought. Winger's Lincoln is, first and foremost, a romantic
                    Protestant whose religious rhetoric reflects the poetic, moral, and deeply spiritual drive of the
                    romanticism that arose from the American Renaissance.
            While readers may justifiably question Winger's thesis, they cannot ignore his impressive
                    grasp of Lincoln's speeches and writings. Not only do these texts constitute the core
                    sources for the author's complex case for the romantic nature of Lincoln's
                    political theology, but they also come alive in his astute assessment of their messages. Winger
                    masterfully explicates the renowned 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address and Second Inaugural, as well as some of Lincoln's most obscure public
                    presentations, such as his musings on Niagara Falls, an oration on the Subtreasury and a
                    "Second Lecture on Discoveries and Inventions." The latter offering, in fact,
                    serves as the springboard for Winger's initial dive into Lincoln's quarrels with
                    the Young America movement for its imperialistic adherence to manifest destiny and its
                    "enthusiasm for world-market capitalism" (p. 21). Winger uses Lincoln's
                    debates with Stephen Douglas and his challenges to Douglas's alter ego, George Bancroft, to
                    demonstrate the depth of moral fervor that characterized his Protestant and romantic perspective on
                    the meaning of America.
            Equally insightful is Winger's description of the roots of Lincoln's religion.
                    Besides the powerful influence of romanticism-which Winger sees as essentially a "religious
                    urge" (p. 220)-and the poetic spirit it instilled in Lincoln, Winger finds the Whig
                    departure from classical republicanism as expressed in its organ, the Whig Review,
                    a consistent source for the young 
                        Illinois
                     politician. Perhaps most critical to the future president's religious views,
                    though, was the Calvinistic "predestinarian Baptist household" in which he grew to
                    maturity in Indiana (p. 159). Winger's discussion of this facet of Lincoln's life
                    provides the strongest and clearest section of the book; in it, he shows that the teachings of that
                    particular Protestant tradition regarding human nature set the stage for Lincoln's role as
                    "an apt prophet for his generation" (p. 159). All these influences produced a
                    political leader who engaged in the sacralization of American politics and who proposed a national
                    religion in which the nation-as Lincoln made so clear in his Second Inaugural-is accountable to a
                    just God. As Winger states, "Lincoln would use the 
                    national creed to critique the national practice" (p. 179). He also reminded America that,
                    as a nation, it was "no closer to the Kingdom of God than any other. All alike remained
                    under the judgment of God" (p. 208). These latter words provide a cogent closing for a
                    path-breaking book- and a poignant message for America in the twenty-first century.
            LLOYD A. HUNTER is professor emeritus of history and American studies at 
                        Franklin
                     College. He is currently editing the Civil War diary of William Taylor Stott, who
                    fought in the 18th Indiana Volunteer Infantry and later served as president of 
                        Franklin
                     College (1872-1905).
         
         
            
               Creating a Hoosier Self-Portrait: The Federal Writers' Project in
                    Indiana, 1935-1942, By George T. Blakey, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp vi, 262. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index,
                    $29.95.)
            The Federal Writers' Project (FWP) was a New Deal program formed to utilize the writing,
                    interviewing, and analytical skills of journalists, teachers, writers, and others who had lost their
                    livelihoods during the Great Depression. Writers who would go on to gain a name in American
                    literature-including Nelson Algren, Ralph Ellison, Eudora Welty, Zora Neale Hurston, Studs Terkel,
                    and Saul Bellow-were all, at one time or another, employed by the FWP.
            The project's most public and lasting legacy is the American Guide series:
                    a combination of "state history, encyclopedia, and travel guide" to each of the
                    forty-eight states, assembled from hours of interviews, writing, and re-writing by fieldworkers (p.
                    41). While the primary job of each state's FWP staff was to research, write, and see
                    through to publication a Guide, the project also resulted in side projects, including most notably
                    the former-slave narratives that have been published in recent decades.
            In this meticulously researched and highly readable book, George Blakey has created an essential
                    resource, both for readers interested in this period in Indiana and American history, and for future
                    historians. While some of the material collected by the FWP workers in Indiana appeared in the final
                        Indiana Guide (1941) as well as in other publications-including newspaper
                    columns and a collection of folklore, Hoosier Tall Stories (1937)-most of the
                    material collected by the fieldworkers has never been published or used extensively by scholars.
            As Blakey states in his introduction, "This massive body of information, stored in archival
                    boxes at the  Library of Congress, the National Archives, and
                    Indiana State University, presents a more complex portrait of Indiana than do the few finished
                    publications …. It is time to pay attention to them" (pp. 4, 5). In this
                    important book, Blakey expands the work, begun by Ronald Baker in his study of the folklore
                    collections of Indiana's FWR of uncovering and analyzing this rich source of material.
            Blakey places the Indiana Guide in its national context, which he then sets against
                    the passions and obsessions of the three writers primarily responsible for the finished project:
                    Ross Lockridge, Rebecca Pitts, and Gordon Briggs. The Indiana that emerges in the Guide, as Blakey describes it, is a self-portrait created by the convergence of these
                    three particular writers. But it is in his analysis of the rest of the self-portrait-the unfinished
                    projects, ephemeral publications, oral histories, and research inventories-that the true picture of
                    Depression Indiana emerges. Blakey refers to these manuscripts as "archival
                    windows" that "offer a view of Indiana that is far more urban, female,
                    multiracial, and multiethnic than the published works portray" (p. 211). By combining the
                    vision of Indiana in the published accounts with those in the unpublished archives, Blakey states,
                    "an Indiana of the Depression decade emerges that is more complex and less nostalgic that
                    that found in the FWP books and rticles" (p. 211). The archival collections remain, as he
                    notes, rich with interviews, observations, and lists from around the state. This is one of those
                    books that makes anyone interested in Indiana history want to take a pilgrimage into the archives
                    with the author as their guide.
            SUSAN NEVILLE is the Demia 
                        Butler
                     professor of English at 
                        Butler
                     University. She is the author of five works of nonfiction and fiction, including Indiana Winter (1994), Fabrication: Essays on Making Things and
                        Making Meaning (2001), and Iconography: A Writers Meditation
                (2003).
         
         
            
               "Honoring Those Who Paid the Price"; Forgotten Voices from the
                        Korean War, By Randy K. Mills, (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2002. Pp. xx, 276. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            Randy Mills draws upon soldiers' letters and recent personal interviews with veterans,
                    relatives, and friends to recover the voices of Indiana veterans of the Korean conflict. He
                    contextualizes their struggle in the broader scope of the war's arc from shocking
                    mobilization to fading victory to disillusioning stalemate.
            Mills adroitly selects ordinary citizens' voices, devoting lengthy sections of the narrative
                    to their detailed  recollections and allowing veterans and their
                    families to illuminate several key aspects of recruitment and fighting conditions. We learn of the
                    many factors that motivated soldiers to enlist: poverty, desire to emulate older brothers'
                    World War II service, machismo, and adventure. We learn, too, of how soldiers' ordinary
                    struggles became extraordinary challenges in difficult terrain and climate, as Marine Corps
                    reservist David Graham suggests in his description of carrying a frozen sleeping bag. Others
                    suffered pain of a different sort, as we see from the racial slurs in the letters some soldiers sent
                    home and in the recollections of African American soldiers- juxtaposed with Army private Stanley
                    Nelson's reflection that "Korean civilians were the greatest casualties of the
                    war" (p. 101). Mills includes voices from the home front, including a letter to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star that illustrates the rampant paranoia induced by confrontation with
                    Communism.
            The stories of reservists, like Graham, are particularly poignant. Though promised that they could
                    quit at any time, these soldiers were denied that privilege amid national emergency. Terrified
                    parents raged at the scandalously hasty deployment of these untrained reservists in the Pusan
                    perimeter. Graham recounts a colonel promising him "all the boot camp you want"
                    after his return from 
                        Korea
                    ! (p. 60).
            Most heartrending of all are the words of soldiers, like Donald 
                        Hamilton
                    , who did not survive: "the squirrels and game wardens will get one more
                    year's rest," writes 
                        Hamilton
                    , "but don't make too many plans because no one knows what will happen
                    in the next year. I don't even look ahead a year anymore because with the luck I have,
                    there just isn't any need to" (p. 57).
            Mills constructs his battle narrative around the Hoosiers who fought in some of the most important
                    Korean battles. Stanley Nelson, Hobert Young, and Ray Cox were among the first combatants in Pusan
                    perimeter. 
                        Hamilton
                    , Charles Garrigus, Jr. (Distinguished Service Cross recipient), and Donald Faith
                    (Congressional Medal of Honor) died in the Chosin fighting, while Nelson and future Congressman Andy
                    Jacobs, Jr., were among those who survived.
            Some problems with editing remain. The deaths of Faith and Garrigus are introduced at the opening of
                    chapter 3, but not actually discussed until chapter 4. The call-up of Marine reservists is
                    repetitively addressed. Some photo captions are oddly placed; for instance, Samuel Muncy is
                    mentioned in text adjacent to his photo (p. 96) but the caption references Chosin, which is
                    described in the following chapter. A map would have been very useful alongside the Chosin
                    narrative. 
                        China
                     launched a spring offensive, not an "offense" in 1951 (p. 171). While
                    Mills begins with veterans' source materials and later uses Hoosier newspapers to convey
                    the "larger context"  (p. xiv), he treats the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune's June 1950 editorials on Truman's initial commitment of
                    combat troops only after narrating the actual impact of early combat on Nelson, Young, and Cox.
                    Mills also does not quite explain why Indiana offers "a particularly important case
                    study" other than to note that the state lay at the "demographic heart of the
                    country" at the time (p. xiii).
            Still, Mills's heartfelt tribute to the ordinary soldier, replete with touching anecdotes of
                    bereaved families, reminds the reader of the realities of war for Americans, and especially for
                    Hoosiers. Mills's eye for the illuminating quotation and illustrative anecdote makes this
                    book a pleasure to read and a useful tool for the teacher. He indeed honors those who paid the
                    price.
            KEVIN SMITH is associate professor of history at Ball State University and is currently
                    researching the role of "Hoosier Statesmen" in American foreign policy.
         
         
            
               IUPUI: The Making of an Urban University, By Ralph D. Gray, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xvi, 339. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $45.00.)
            
               Steel Shavings, Vol. 35: Educating the Calumet: A History of
                        Indiana University Northwest, By Paul B. Kern. Edited by James B. Lane and Paul B. Kern,
                    ([Gary]: Indiana University Northwest, 1994. Pp. 288. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                    $15.00.)
            Writing a history of urban universities is a challenging task-one reason why these new studies of
                    Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                     (IUPUI) and Indiana University Northwest (IUN) make a contribution to a growing body of
                    historical literature. Both studies begin appropriately on a defensive note. The origins, growth,
                    and development of these twentieth-century urban satellite campuses-extensions of a powerful
                    nineteenth-century rural institution-number among Indiana's best kept secrets. Urban
                    universities founded in the second half of the twentieth century have struggled to establish
                    identities of their own while still confronting the needs of disparate and often conflicting
                    constituencies: among them city and state politicians, admissions from a racially and economically
                    diverse mix of students (many of them first-generation commuters from inner city schools), research
                    and teaching faculties, neighborhood economic interests,  and
                    not least a central institution using its influence to retain control over satellites. IU is the
                    elephant looming in the background.
            The contemporary historian of the late twentieth-century metropolitan "un-iversity"
                    needs to gather up the segmented pieces and assorted fragments from a multitude of local
                    perspectives over many decades and bring them into focus as a coherent and recognizable whole. Parts
                    of an institution, assembled from extensions, do not necessarily total a comprehensive place. Ralph
                    D. Gray, professor emeritus of history, succeeds in laying this important groundwork for IUPUI.
                    Using sources drawn primarily from printed institutional documents, he surveys in detail the origins
                    of extension divisions and professional schools from 1891, to the creation of a merged IUPUI in
                    1969, through the campus's subsequent developments. He pays special attention to
                    administration at all levels (including such chancellors and major players as Mayiiard Hine, Glenn
                    Irwin, Gerald Bepko, and the Lilly Foundation), as well as to the drive for academic respectability,
                    the teaching program, campus sports, and student activities.
            As Gray demonstrates, mergers are dicey business. One of the most interesting sections of his
                    narrative documents the politics swirling around the merger in 1969, a process "difficult
                    to reconstruct" as 
                        Indianapolis
                     transformed itself, according to one observer, "from a sleazy state capital
                    into a world-class city" (pp. 80,45).
            Gray's comprehensive history is enthusiastic and upbeat, highlighting a story of leadership
                    and achievement in each of the major schools and a broad variety of sponsored projects and programs.
                    In part, the result is a reference work, testimony to the institutional complexity meshing
                    individuals and facilities that made the merger work. The index and notes are useful navigational
                    tools in this book. Thanks to Gray's work, historians and supporters of urban higher
                    education now have a better understanding of the contours of the institutional landscape of what is,
                    fortunately, no longer a best-kept secret.
            By comparison to Gray's topdown institutional history, editors James Lane and Paul Kern
                    concentrate on the bottom-up social history of IUN since its move to Glenn Park in 1959. Stitching
                    together a trove of oral interviews within the narrative outline of departments and programs, the
                    editors capture the interplay of people-each with distinctive backgrounds, ambitions, opinions,
                    passions, and career paths-residing on an urban campus. Incongruity, irony, and dissident points of
                    view characterize this non-linear approach to historical narrative.
            Lane and Kern's publication, a volume in the Steel Shavings journal
                    series, is appropriately entitled "Educating the Calumet Region." IUN acted as a
                    vibrant stage upon which students made the transition to a 
                    working world, faculty pursued careers of their own, and administrators came and went-all while
                    major happenings like the 
                        Vietnam
                     War, counterculture movements, and the decline of manufacturing played out in the
                    larger world. The editors, participant observers speaking through informants, provide often
                    irreverent and sharp commentary as they display the candid side of the higher learning process. For
                    instance, a student grouses about history professors "attacking things I grew up
                    believing," or being "outraged at the things" the Pentagon Papers
                    exposed. Reactions such as these from blue-collar students came with the territory, as did the
                    reactions of veterans and older students returning to a school they could financially afford. Unlike
                    their downstate peers, commuting urban students are not sequestered in the culture of cloistered
                    towns. And urban universities like IUN (and IUPUI) became a microcosm of society, with all its warts
                    and cross purposes as well as its strengths and creativity. This volume provides the historian of
                    education with original points of view and leads for further work. Mistaken in my view, the editors
                    decided to omit citation of their sources, thinking they would be distracting. The original
                    manuscript, with notes intact, is deposited in the Calumet Regional Archives.
            BURTON J. BLEDSTEIN is professor of history at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Chicago
                    .
         
         
            
               The Amish Schools of Indiana: Faith in Education, By Stephen Bowers Harroff,
                    (West 
                        Lafayette
                    : Purdue University Press, 2004. pb. ix, 210. Charts, illustration, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            
               Shipshewana: An Indiana Amish Community, By Dorothy O. Pratt, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, Quarry Books, 2004. Pp. ix, 209. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    suggestions for further reading, index. $29.95.)
            Whatever the public's infatuation with the Amish, these books prove that a place remains for
                    the serious and responsible study of Amish life. In a field that has focused disproportionately upon
                    the Amish in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    - and especially 
                        Lancaster County
                     (from John A. Hostetler's early studies to Donald B. Kraybill's
                    recent works)-Harroff and Pratt promise to provide fresh insight based on the experiences of the
                    Amish in Indiana.
            The two books are quite dissimilar. Shipshewana is a version of Pratt's
                         Notre Dame history dissertation. Harroff studied Amish
                    schools during three decades of teaching German language, literature, and culture at Indiana
                    University-Purdue University, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . While chapter one of his volume offers a valuable and competent history the pages that
                    follow provide almost no historical framework, explanation, or analysis. Another difference lies in
                    basic method. Harroff's rearing and religion (Church of the Brethren) seem to have put him
                    close enough to help him understand many subtleties of the Amish world-view. He conducted
                    participant-observer research by visiting and keenly watching Amish schools, meanwhile forming
                    genuine friendships to the point that the Amish sometimes called on him to substitute for a teacher.
                    Pratt did some interviewing, but she otherwise relied mainly on written sources. Even for the
                    purpose of writing history, she might well have profited from getting further into day-to-day Amish
                    life and perceptions.
            Another basic difference between the two works lies in their interpretive method. Harroff stayed with
                    meticulous description, while Pratt applied social science concept- smost notably ideas about
                    boundary maintenance, responses to the market economy, and Amish resistance to assimilation. Just as
                    Pratt might have benefited from a bit more of Harroff's firsthand observation, Harroff
                    might in turn have asked deeper questions had he opened himself to such a conceptual framework.
            Finally, Harroff proceeds, albeit implicitly, from an assumption that religion is an independent
                    variable, a prime motivator in human affairs. (Apparently he means his subtitle, Faith
                        in Education, to be a double entendre.) Pratt's assumption about religion is less
                    clear. While she sometimes attributed Amish people's behaviors to their faith, her
                    discussion often implies that even the Amish are mainly creatures of economics and sociology, with
                    their religion being more a derivative than an independent cause.
            Whatever its differences from Pratt's volume, Harroff's The Amish
                        Schools in Indiana has genuine strengths: meticulous observation; affective as well as
                    cognitive knowledge and communication of its subject; and clear, well-organized presentation. But it
                    also has weaknesses. Its author has delivered a most favorable description (gifted teachers, orderly
                    classrooms, effective methods, and seamless integration with Amish community, family, and values);
                    but he did not go on to reflect on the lessons that Amish education might offer to parochial and
                    publicschool school teachers and officials. Moreover, while he covered in great detail the things
                    that Amish teachers and schools do well, he said almost nothing about what they do not. One wonders,
                    for instance, how well those schools help Amish children to understand other points of view.
            
               Shipshew ana's strengths and weaknesses are less clear-cut. Pratt  conducted diligent research, used secondary literature to
                    advantage, added much from primary sources, and organized and wrote competently. She delivered keen
                    insights, and readers can profit from her application of social-science concepts. At the same time,
                    students of Amish and Mennonite culture may feel some insecurity about what to accept from her. She
                    seemed not to know that Mennonites affirm, rather than swear, legal oaths (p. 69); elsewhere, she
                    implied that a poultry hatchery near Shipshewana is an Amish enterprise (p. 134), when in fact its
                    owners are Mennonite.
            More basically, Pratt's use of evidence undercuts what could have been her most valuable
                    purpose. While a study of this sort promises to test the broader scholarship against specific
                    evidence from a local community, Pratt has trouble keeping that community and its nearby neighbors
                    in focus. Shipshewana, in northern Indiana's LaGrange County, is a key center of Amish
                    life, and consequently of tourism. Yet when she had difficulty finding data from her chosen
                    community she took evidence from Amish elsewhere in LaGrange or in 
                        Elkhart
                     Counties, or more widely from Indiana, or even, on occasion, from wider scholarship
                    about the Amish in other regions altogether. Yet Amish regulations and ways differ, even rather
                    close to Shipshewana (for instance, on whether to allow work in large factories not owned by Amish).
                    How well does evidence drawn from beyond Shipshewana apply to this particular community? More
                    seriously, does her use of nonlocal evidence undermine the potential promise of testing conventional
                    wisdom against local circumstance?
            Like any scholar's work, these books need juxtaposition with other scholarship. Thomas J.
                    Meyers and Steven M. Nolt's Lilly Endowmentfunded research on Indiana's Old Order
                    Amish, An Amish Patchwork: Indiana's Old Orders in the Modern World
                    (2005) and their forthcoming Amish Mosaic: Shaping Cultural Identities provide a
                    good starting place. Readers of Harroff's volume would do well to look at literature that
                    features broader concepts and questions. Such broader literature may also help readers to evaluate
                    Pratt's evidence and to consider religion as a motivator in its own right. But with or
                    without such additional reading, these two volumes, with their divergent styles and methods, will
                    profit even well-versed readers.
            THERON F. SCHLABACH is professor emeritus of history at 
                        Goshen
                     College, 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            
               Along the Maysville Road: The Early Republic in the Trans-Appalachian West, By
                    Craig Thompson Friend, (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 2005. Pp. 378. Figures, maps, appendix, notes, index. $42.00.)
            Most undergraduates in the U.S. history survey briefly encounter the Maysville Road when they study
                    Jacksonian-era battles over federal support for internal improvements. For those who want to know
                    more about how this backcountry road became the center of a national controversy, Craig Thompson
                    Friend's Along the Maysville Road takes readers back to the Revolutionary
                    era, making the sixty-five-mile route through northcentral 
                        Kentucky
                     the organizing principle for a social history of the state during the early republic.
            Thompson describes his approach as a "biography of a road" and readers will
                    certainly learn about the physical and environmental changes in the thoroughfare, from its earliest
                    history as a buffalo trace to the turnpike era, when locals and tourists alike finally experienced
                    travel on a relatively smooth, paved surface. But this is not primarily a book about the
                    transportation revolution. It is a more broadly conceived social history of the towns and
                    communities that grew up along the Maysville Road from the 1770s to the 1830s. Using a diverse array
                    of sources ranging from travel accounts, newspapers, census data, manuscripts, and maps to
                    architectural and landscape evidence, Friend traces the evolution of communities along the road from
                    their origins in a period of ethnically diverse pioneering migrations, through the emergence of an
                    agricultural gentry, to what he calls the triumph of an entrepreneurial middle class. Women and
                    slaves appear periodically, but the focus of the book remains on the "men of
                    commerce" who, Friend argues, ultimately controlled "the form and direction of
                    cultural development in this early American West" (p. 4).
            In the period from 1800 to 1825, debt, drought, war, and revivalism reshaped the road and the
                    communities it linked. The state assembly began to pay greater attention to road construction
                    beginning in 1810; Friend argues that the decision signaled a shifting political culture in central 
                        Kentucky
                    , from a society organized around traditional communities transplanted by the eastern
                    gentry to one shaped by the triumph of middle-class commercial interests. Though political debate
                    was often contentious, the limits of turnpike investment and the symbiotic relationship between
                    agricultural and commercial interests suggest that a common class interest produced more consensus
                    than conflict among the commercial elites at the heart of Friend's story.
            Friend's initial assertion that "this beaten path was one of the most  exceptional roads of the Early American Republic, serving as the spine
                    of the most dynamic region of the American West," overreaches the evidence, which primarily
                    documents the role of Maysville Road as a local route connecting a "Village West"
                    rather than as a migration highway (p. 2). Nevertheless, scholars of the trans-Appalachian west in
                    the early republic will find much useful information in this microhistory of social change in a
                    region where revivalism, patriotism, and entrepreneurial ambition helped to define a new American
                    identity. Friend's narrative writing style will also appeal to a broader public audience
                    interested in the history of 
                        Kentucky
                     and western migration.
            LISA C. TOLBERT is associate professor of American history at the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     at 
                        Greensboro
                     and author of Constructing Townscapes: Space and Society in Antebellum 
                            Tennessee
                        
                (1999).
         
         
            
               Confronting Race: Women and Indians on the Frontier, 1815-1915, By Glenda Riley,
                    (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 2004. Pp. ix, 326. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound, $39.95;
                    paperbound, $21.95.)
            Glenda Riley, Alexander M. Bracken professor emeritus of history at Ball State University, has
                    contributed substantially to the field of women's history throughout her remarkably
                    productive career. Historically speaking, she is largely responsible for putting midwestern women on
                    the map. In Confronting Race, Riley examines white-Indian relations and the racial
                    prejudices of nineteenth-century, trans-
                        Mississippi
                     migrating women, many of whom had midwestern roots. She contends that, as a result of
                    proscribed gender roles, white women interacted with American Indians and demonstrated changing
                    attitudes toward them in ways that white men did not. Even so, she concludes, white women remained
                    "solidly colonialist" in their opinions about other groups (p. 2).
                    Riley's analysis is based primarily upon a range of women's private writings
                    including diaries, journals, and daybooks, along with a number of public accounts, records, and
                    cultural sources such as novels. This study speaks to the need to investigate the role of gender in
                    the legacies of white expansionism in the West.
            
               Confronting Race is a revised version of a 1984 publication into which Riley has
                    integrated newer findings and at least one major theoretical argument to engage in the larger
                    conversation about race and colonialism. Western frontiers are identified as geographical zones
                    wherein groups of people met and where one group  intended to
                    subdue another. Frontiers also include "procedures" and phases that, Riley
                    contends, infused the drama of westward migration: frontier philosophy, the process of relocation
                    and imposition, and geographical place and colonialism (p. 7). She also examines their consequences.
                    The groundwork is laid in the first two chapters, which examine nineteenth-century American and
                    European discourses on the constitution of white womanhood and on the American Indian as an
                    "other." As it pertained to white women, the frontier experience involved
                    encounters with Indians and a subsequent shifting of their views from vilification to humane
                    understanding. Riley contends, however, that in their relationship with non-Indian
                    "others" (such as Mexicans, Asians, and African Americans), white women proved
                    unable to moderate their "race-based consciousness" (p. 223).
            On one level, this is a difficult book to review. Weaknesses in the author's style and
                    contentions periodically threaten to undermine the strength of her basic argument. Riley tends to
                    universalize her characterizations and to make assumptions about matters of the mind that she cannot
                    possibly know for certain. To cite one of many examples, she notes that "[t]eachings about
                    women's moral authority, white superiority, Manifest Destiny, and European-style
                    colonialism were so deeply entrenched, they remained always at the back of women's
                    minds" (p. 96). One expects to find such contentions followed by corroborating contemporary
                    remarks; but in this case none are offered. One also wonders how "deeply
                    entrenched" Manifest Destiny and colonialism actually were in the minds of westering white
                    women. For that matter, neither of these could be the real driving forces that
                    "propelled" them westward, as Riley claims (p. 7). Personal economics and
                    aspirations, rather than popular ideology, were the most likely immediate factors. Throughout this
                    study, Riley employs a pattern of overstatement and universalization without illustrating,
                    strengthening, or proving her contentions.
            Concerns aside, Confronting Race is significant for its gendered analysis of
                    westward expansion, with its implications for our understanding of white women's role in
                    the legacies of migration and frontier development. The book also offers an important link between
                    midwestern women and westward migration, one of the most important events of the nineteenth century.
            GINETTE ALEY is assistant professor of history at the University of Southern Indiana. Her
                    dissertation on early Indiana, "Westward Expansion, John 
                        Tipton
                    , and the Emergence of the American Midwest, 1800-1839," is currently under
                    review at Indiana University Press.
         
         
         
            
               From 
                            Prairie
                         Farmer to Entrepreneur: The Transformation of Midwestern Agriculture, By
                    Dennis S. Nordin and Roy V Scott, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp. xvi, 356. Tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $65.00.)
            Occasionally there comes along a book that challenges us to reevaluate long-held assumptions about an
                    area of study. Dennis S. Nordin and Roy V. Scott's From 
                            Prairie
                         Farmer to Entrepreneur is such a work. In seven compact chapters, the authors
                    dissect a prodigious quantity of research and construct a bold new synthesis of the restructuring of
                    twentieth-century midwestern farming and rural life by the forces of technology, economic change,
                    and government policy. In the process the authors shatter numerous myths and misconceptions rooted
                    in Jeffersonian agrarian fundamentalism.
            Nordin and Scott argue persuasively that the period between 1900 and 1920, often called the
                    "golden age" of agriculture because of increasing yields and rising prices, in
                    fact witnessed severe market changes that forced a growing number of small farmers into tenancy
                    while encouraging more astute operators to move into commercial farming. Similarly, they show that
                    the agricultural depression of the 1920s resulted not so much from overproduction as from reduced
                    spoilage, a change attributable to improved transportation and refrigeration, declining consumption
                    by urban workers in response to lower wages, and declining exports brought on by high tariffs.
                    Likewise, New Deal interventionist policies- and those of both the Democratic and Republican
                    administrations that followed-encouraged less skilled farmers to remain on the farm, delaying their
                    ultimate movement into urban, industrial jobs, and making nearly all farmers increasingly dependent
                    on the federal government for financial support. Ostensibly intended to improve the lot of
                    struggling family farmers, these policies primarily benefited the most highly skilled operators who
                    increased efficiency and productivity by embracing technological innovations such as tractors,
                    hybrid seed, and chemical insecticides and fertilizers. Meanwhile, technological innovations such as
                    the radio and rural electrification, the advent of rural mail delivery, advances in public
                    education, and the improvement of country roads significantly reduced rural isolation and steadily
                    improved the quality of rural life during the twentieth century.
            For mechanically challenged readers, such as this reviewer, chapter five provides a particularly
                    fascinating and detailed account of how mpanies such as Case, Ford, International Harvester,
                    Allis-Chalmers, and John Deere transformed agriculture by developing larger, more powerful, and more
                    expensive tractors and implements. Such equipment not  only
                    affected the production of corn, wheat, and other grain crops, but also changed the cultivation of
                    fruits and vegetables by reducing dependence on migrant labor and increasing the scale of
                    production. 
                        Ill-
                    timed purchases also forced many marginal farmers into excessive debt and, eventually,
                    out of business.
            Meticulously researched and deftly written, Nordin and Scott's analysis is distinguished by
                    a dispassionate tone that neither lauds nor laments the changes they chronicle. Rather than waxing
                    nostalgic, they view the transformation of midwestern agriculture as a logical consequence of
                    technological change and a rational response to a growing nation's need for food. While the
                    authors express concern about the attendant manifestations of rural decay and urban sprawl, they
                    note that many rural families benefited in the long run from opportunities for better education and
                    alternative employment and that complaints about new neighbors "often ended with sales to
                    land developers at prices well above the prevailing level for farmland" (p. 152).
            I do have one factual clarification. The authors state that decentralization of livestock marketing
                    ended the International Livestock Show in 
                        Chicago
                     (p. 158). More precisely, when the Union Stock Yards closed, the International
                    Livestock Exposition merged with the North American Livestock Exposition in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , to create the North American International Livestock Exposition, the
                    nation's largest purebred livestock show. But this is a minor quibble. Nordin and
                    Scott's contribution to the literature of midwestern agriculture will have a lasting
                    influence upon our understanding of the history of rural life.
            CARL E. KRAMER is vice president of Kramer Associates, Inc., a 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, historical research firm, and visiting assistant professor of history at
                    Indiana University Southeast. He is a past president of the 
                        Louisville
                     Agricultural Club, Inc.
         
         
            
               
                        Chicago
                    
                    Painting 1895-1945: The Bridges Collection, By Wendy Greenhouse and Susan
                    Weininger, (
                        Springfield
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press with the 
                        Illinois
                     State Museum, 2004. Pp. 251. Illustrations, notes, checklist of the collection.
                    Paperbound, $32.95.)
            The publication of 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Painting 1895-1945: The Bridges Collection follows a 2000-2001
                    traveling exhibition organized by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Museum and displayed in 
                        Chicago
                     as well as in three of the museum's ancillary galleries. Produced in
                    collaboration with the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, the book offers an ambitious overview of 
                        Chicago
                     art and artists at the turn of the last century.
            
            Although some museum professionals may question the decision to offer a single donor an exclusive
                    exhibit and publication, the variety and quality of the paintings owned by Powell and Barbara
                    Bridges prove worthwhile both as educational tools and as historical documentation of the
                    city's artistic trends. The book's three main sections include two wellresearched
                    essays as well as a catalog comprising succinct biographies of each of the forty-nine artists along
                    with fine images of the works themselves. An introduction by Susan C. Larsen deftly discusses the
                    nature of art collecting, traces the evolution of the Bridges' accumulation of artwork, and
                    summarizes the artists and styles represented in the collection.
            Wendy Greenhouse's essay, ‘"More of Beauty and Less of
                    Ugliness’: Conservative Painting in 
                        Chicago
                    , 1890-1929," explores the underlying social structure influencing the
                    city's early twentieth-century art trends. The 1879 founding of the 
                        Chicago
                     Academy of Design (later named the Art Institute of 
                        Chicago
                    ) by civic-minded businessmen seeking "to nurture the past, present, and future
                    of art under a single broad roof successfully institutionalized art as a civic commodity (p. 24).
                    Heavily influenced by studio instructors' preferences and by the progression of dominating
                    boards of directors, the artwork produced at the school remained primarily traditional in the early
                    1900s. Because several 
                        Chicago
                    -trained artists spent summers painting in 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana, their conservative influence affected painting styles in the Hoosier state as
                    well.
            Greenhouse's lucid description of the growing disparity, beginning in the early 1940s,
                    between the ideals of 
                        Chicago
                    's conservative painters and those of the emerging local modernists smoothly
                    leads into Susan Weininger's essay, "The Spirit of Change': Modernism in 
                        Chicago
                    ." Weininger contends that 
                        Chicago
                    's modernist movement evolved fairly independently from developments in 
                        New York
                    . Although an exhibit of work by the East Coast Ashcan School artists traveled to the
                    Art Institute in 1908, and the next decade included several exhibits of their followers, 
                        Chicago
                     artists preferred a sanitized version of social realism. Generally, they showed more
                    interest in creating pleasing images than in adhering to theoretical principles.
            Greenhouses's and Weininger's contextual essays create a thorough overview, not
                    only of art styles, but of the development of civic and artistdriven associations in early
                    twentieth-century 
                        Chicago
                    . These vital groups each formed to address different issues: the perpetual challenge of
                    achieving success as a Midwest artist, the rebellion against the established exhibition regime, and
                    the desire to infuse with cultural ambiance a city best known for its stockyards.
            The catalogue of works, with the biographical essays divided between Greenhouse and Weininger,
                    showcases  the wonders of current color technology. Each of the
                    seventy-eight paintings receives respectful "breathing room" in the form of
                    exclusive page placement conducive to the diverse painting styles. Listed alphabetically by artist
                    name, the essays reveal careful research with notes conveniently placed in the side-margins.
                    Fascinating details spice up the factual writing, such as Ivan Albright's penchant for
                    signing both the tops and bottoms of his paintings to facilitate upside-down hanging.
            An awkward size to carry and read, the book is bound with laminated soft covers that mitigate price
                    but discourage coffee-table permanence. A checklist with artwork provenance enhances the
                    publication's value for serious collectors as well as for curators.
            RACHEL BERENSON PERRY is the fine arts curator for the Indiana State Museum. She wrote the
                    introductory essay to The Artists of 
                            Brown County
                        
                by Lyn Letsinger-Miller (1994) and Children from the Hills: The
                        Life and Work of Ada Walter Shulz (2001).
         
         
            
               
                        Prairie
                    
                    Power: Voices of 1960s Midwestern Student Protest, By Robbie
                    Lieberman, (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xvi, 264. Bibliography. $44.95.)
            In this regional perspective on what radical-turned-scholar Todd Gitlin called the "years of
                    hope and days of rage," Robbie Lieberman explores how the student New Left manifested
                    itself in "working-class institutions in rural, conservative areas of the country"
                    (p. x). Through a collection of oral histories from former activists affiliated in varying degrees
                    with Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) chapters at the University of 
                        Kansas
                    , University of 
                        Missouri
                    , and Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University (SIU), Lieberman attempts to present "
                        Prairie
                     Power" activism not simply as a disruptive contingent of SDS-the most
                    highprofile and influential New Left group of the 
                        Vietnam
                     era-but as a distinctive ethos, value system, and style of protest based on a genuine
                    commitment to organizing around local issues and on a penchant for complementing direct-action
                    politics with cultural rebellion. Concomitantly, by giving voice to these midwestern radicals,
                    Lieberman's intends to challenge orthodox perceptions of 
                        Prairie
                     Power (advanced by SDS leaders such as Gitlin) as having been litde more than a
                    collection of unsophisticated, longhaired, dope-smoking anarchists whose ascendancy within SDS after
                    1965 derailed that organization and helped steer what is loosely referred to as "the
                    movement" down the path  toward hedonism, violence, and
                    nihilistic excess.
            As a matter of personal preference, this reviewer finds the technique of compiling largely undigested
                    oral histories to be somewhat problematic. Admittedly, the book grew out of a forum discussion
                    entitled "I'm on the Pavement, Thinkin' about the Government': 
                        Vietnam
                    , Carbondale, and the May 1970 Riot," and it retains that basic panel feel
                    throughout. Lieberman, a professor of history at SlU-Carbondale, facilitates by providing a timeline
                    of pertinent "sixties" events and an introductory historiography of the New Left,
                    including the rise and fall of SDS. Her footnotes identify key people and events of the generation
                    and offer a brief history of each campus. But students and casual readers seeking historical context
                    with which to evaluate these stories would be well served by consulting monographs by scholars such
                    as Terry Anderson, David Farber, or James Farrell beforehand. The book also falls somewhat short in
                    its aim of vindicating 
                        Prairie
                     Power; many of Lieberman's local activists speak less to her organizing theme
                    than to the amorphous nature of being a part of "the movement," a process that
                    involved picking and choosing those aspects of the "sixties experience" most
                    applicable to them.
            These things said, Lieberman does deliver on her objective of letting the activists speak in their
                    own words. Her work faithfully follows the prevailing trend in sixties scholarship of rejecting, as
                    historian Kenneth Heinemann puts it, the traditional perception of the 
                        United States
                     in the 1960s as a "cultural entity defined by the West Coast and the
                    Northeastern seaports, with points in between consisting of 
                  Ann
                            Arbor, Chicago
               , and 
                        Madison
                    " (Campus Wars: The Peace Movement at American State Universities
                        in the 
                            Vietnam
                         Era [1993]). While national developments often established the broad
                    parameters in which 
                        Vietnam
                    -era protest unfolded, localism determined the substance of, and gave enormous variety
                    to, activism. In bringing together often heartfelt and thoughtful reminiscences from these
                    grassroots rebels, Lieberman expands our knowledge of the sixties by offering what women's
                    labor historian Jacquelyn Dowd Hall has called, the "partial truths": a more
                    extured and nuanced picture of less familiar events and lesser-known actors-such as the
                    "the Moo and Cackle riots" in Carbondale and the "February
                    Sisters" of Lawrence-that went largely unnoticed by a national audience
                    ("Disorderly Women: Gender and Labor Militancy in the Appalachian South," Journal of American History, 73 [September 1986]).
            JOEL P. RHODES is assistant professor in the history department of Southeast 
                        Missouri
                     State University. He is the author of "It Finally Happened Here: the 1968 Riot
                    in 
                        Kansas
                     City, 
                        Missouri
                    ," in the 
                        Missouri
                    
                    Historical Review (April 1997) and The Voice of Violence:
                        Performative Violence as Protest in the 
                            Vietnam
                         Era (2001).
         
         
         
            
               The Other 
                            Missouri
                         History: Populists, Prostitutes, and Regular Folk, Edited by Thomas M. 
                        Spencer
                    , (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2005. Pp. vii, 241. Notes, index. Paperbound, $24.95.)
            The nine essays that comprise this volume consider the ways in which ordinary people-those without
                    power or wealth-have been able to influence public policy. Using the organizing categories of race,
                    gender, and class, the authors explore how these "other" Missourians have helped
                    to shape the history of the state. Wide ranging in time and topic, the essays investigate race and
                    politics in the post-Civil War era, labor organization (both farm and industry) from the antebellum
                    period to modern times, and the legal and illegal organization of women in the late nineteenth and
                    early twentieth centuries. Although the essays deal specifically with Missourians and 
                        Missouri
                     issues, they point to ways in which locally-based social history can enrich our
                    understanding of national trends and demonstrate how everyday people help to influence the course of
                    history.
            Both Greg Andrews's essay on Radical Reconstruction politics in Ralls County and Tom 
                        Spencer
                    's on the Bald Knobbers of Taney County in the same era are representative of
                    this collection in their excellent use of local newspapers, state court records, governors'
                    papers, and census records to build solid cases that challenge traditional interpretations. Bonnie
                    Stepenhoff relies on oral histories, records of the Farm Security Administration, and correspondence
                    in manuscript collections to explore "Survival Strategies of Farm Laborers in the 
                        Missouri
                     Bootheel, 1900-1958," while Robert Faust, in "Women, Identity, and
                    Reform in 
                        Missouri
                    's Lead Belt, 1900-1923," draws on the papers of women's
                    clubs, corporations, and schools to trace the growth of progressive women's interests from
                    "selfculture to social welfare" (p. 197). Daniel Graff's and Deborah
                    Henry's essays place race at the center of their analyses of labor organization in 
                        St. Louis
                    . Whether looking at the antebellum period (Graff), or at the post-World War II era
                    (Henry), these authors find that race trumps all other factors, as white solidarity prevented blacks
                    from attaining equal opportunity in the labor market. Rounding out the collection are essays by
                    Michael Steiner on populism in northern 
                        Missouri
                     and Amber Clifford on prostitution in 
                        Kansas
                     City.
            Well written and pleasingly presented with footnotes rather than endnotes, this volume deserves
                    careful consideration by those who live beyond 
                        Missouri
                    . These essays allow us to test our general theories against the specificity of
                    particular place and time. Because the subject matter is so varied, every reader should find at
                    least several essays appealing. Taken  together, the
                    contributions to The Other 
                            Missouri
                         History force us to expand our viewpoint and to look beyond the words and
                    deeds of the rich and powerful. By assuming the perspective of ordinary people, this volume helps us
                    to gain a richer interpretation of historical events in 
                        Missouri
                     and elsewhere.
            VIRGINIAL J. LAAS is professor of history at 
                        Missouri
                     Southern State University. She is currently at work on a biography of Missourian Emily
                    Newell Blair, vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, 1922-1928.
         
         
            
               Language and Political Meaning in Revolutionary America, By John Howe, (Amherst:
                    University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xii, 281. Illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)
            There is little doubt of the substantial role played by vocabulary in determining the outcome of
                    public events. Whether deployed in the service of great historical struggles or of fleeting
                    political squabbles, language can produce deadlock, or it can reframe the very manner in which
                    citizens understand the questions at issue.
            Professor John Howe devotes considerable effort to recounting the evolution of language in late
                    colonial America, and to investigating its influence on the political struggles of the era. His book
                    does not attempt to create an overarching theory of language during the several decades of the
                    Revolutionary period, but it does provide useful insights into the interplay of language and
                    politics.
            Modern readers easily forget, for example, that during the late seventeenth and early eighteenth
                    centuries the English language was still very much in flux. Conventions of spelling, punctuation,
                    and grammar (not to mention definitions of words) now so familiar to Englishmen and Americans alike
                    were still matters in play during the decades preceding the Revolution. Samuel Johnson's
                    1755 dictionary became the leading achievement of a fifty-year movement to prescribe standard
                    language. The respectability that such standardization brought to the English language fit nicely
                    with the ambitious goals of Great Britain's political leadership.
            Howe observes that the movement toward standardization, still a work in progress on the eve of the
                    Revolution, complicated the political debate that ultimately led to schism between the mother
                    country and her colonies. The conflict with the British during what Howe calls "the
                    imperial crisis" was exacerbated by the fact that the two sides possessed different
                    definitions of common terms like  "liberty"
                    and "the rights of Englishmen." Language might even be said to have played a role
                    during a lastditch effort to avoid war, when General Howe received a delegation from the Continental
                    Congress in the winter of 1777. This effort foundered when the parties disagreed over whether the
                    colonials should be called a group of individuals or representatives of the colonial congress.
            Howe also helpfully traces changes in the means of political discourse during the Revolutionary
                    decades. These middle decades of the eighteenth century witnessed an explosion of political
                    expression through the use of broadsides (frequently issued anonymously). The number of regular
                    newspapers in the colonies expanded rapidly during the fifteen years after 1775, creating an
                    alternative mode of political expression. By the time of the Constitutional Convention, newspapers
                    had become the leading means of propagating political doctrine.
            Howe also casts disagreements over the ratification of the Constitution in linguistic light. In
                    opposing ratification, the Anti-Federalists tended to express their views as though language were a
                    fixed commodity, taking the same approach as the prescriptive creators of the dictionaries. They
                    insisted that greater precision in language could provide a safer future for the country. Their
                    demand for a bill of rights to protect the people and the states from overreaching by the new
                    government aligned with this view of language. The Federalists, seeing both language and the
                    constitutional document as possessing the capacity to develop new meanings and purposes over time,
                    spoke to the politics of the age in language characterized by studied ambiguity.
            Professor Howe's book fits nicely alongside the several works over the last decade that have
                    explored colonial language and politics. This book is not aimed at the popular reader, nor even at
                    the regular student of history. This relatively slender volume contains nearly fifty pages of
                    endnotes, and its paragraphs are filled with inside references to other writers and critics. The
                    book contains useful observations and lots of source material, but most readers will find it more
                    valuable as a reference volume than as a casual read.
            RANDALL T. SHEPARD is Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court and a trustee of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. He is co-editor, with David J. Bodenhamer, of The History of
                        Indiana Law (2006).
         
         
         
            
               No Taint of Compromise: Crusaders in Antislavery Politics, By Frederick J. Blue, (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State Press, 2005. Pp. xiv, 301. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $54.95.)
            In No Taint of Compromise, Frederick J. Blue applies a prosopographic analysis to
                    antislavery politics in the antebellum era. Blue presents eleven portraits of antislavery political
                    leaders, ranging from well-known figures, like John Greenleaf Whittier and David Wilmot, to such
                    lesser-known activists as Alvan Stewart and Sherman M. Booth. The subjects are wellchosen and
                    diverse, representing different regional, religious, and partisan backgrounds. Of special interest
                    to readers of this journal may be Blue's chapter on George 
                        Washington
                     Julian, the 
                        Quaker
                     congressman from Indiana who was a member of the Free Soil party and a leader of the
                    Radical Republicans from 1861-1871. No Taint of Compromise also includes two women
                    among its portraits (Jane Grey Swisshelm and Jessie 
                        Benton
                        Fremont
                    ), as well as a black political leader (Charles Henry Langston). Their biographies
                    challenge narrow assumptions about who participated in antebellum politics. Overall, Blue portrays
                    individuals who have been the subject of little historical attention. By eschewing Lincoln and
                    Sumner for Booth and Swisshelm, Blue guarantees that the book will make a contribution to the field.
            The portraits are arranged according to the subjects' roles in the evolution of antislavery
                    politics, from the initial organization of the abolitionist Liberty Party in 1840, through the
                    formation of the anti-slavery-expansion Free Soil party in 1848, to the political realignment that
                    produced the Republican party in the mid-18503. Blue's purpose is to demonstrate that
                    antislavery politics did not constitute a compromised antislavery effort. Ever since William Lloyd
                    Garrison's decisive turn against politics in the mid-1830s, political antislavery has been
                    viewed suspiciously. But Garrison's bias, Blue suggests, has been adopted by historians
                    without good cause. By looking closely at the lives of antislavery political leaders, Blue hopes to
                    demonstrate that-in the words of George 
                        Washington
                     Julian-their antislavery politics had "no taint of compromise." At
                    some point, each of his subjects made an unswerving commitment to attack slavery through politics.
            Readers may question whether a persistent political commitment is equivalent to an uncompromised
                    ethical position. After all, compromise is the very stuff of politics. Blue's organization
                    of his portraits makes the tension in his argument obvious. By ordering his subjects from Liberty
                    Party members through Free Soilers to Republicans, Blue cannot help but reproduce the declension
                    narrative of antislavery politics: that antislavery  politicians
                    who first joined the unpopular abolitionist Liberty Party, later migrated into the merely
                    restrictionist Free Soil party in order to gain votes. His subjects may not have compromised their
                    commitments to politics, but they certainly compromised their commitments to antislavery. Blue
                    compounds this impression throughout by qualifying his subjects' politics with words such
                    as "radical," "moderate," and "conservative."
                    Because of the prosopographic form of his narrative, perhaps, Blue chooses not to pursue a more
                    complete redefinition of these terms-a redefinition that might have shown Free Soilers and pre-Civil
                    War Republicans in a less-compromised light.
            Prosopography also offers its advantages. No Taint of Compromise is a pleasure to
                    read. Blue brings decades of experience to the subject and the genre; he is the author of an
                    award-winning biography of the antislavery political leader Salmon P. Chase, as well as of another
                    biography of the Conscience Whig, Charles Sumner, and a history of the Free Soil Party. The brief
                    biographies he offers in No Taint of Compromise are humane, compelling, and
                    enlightening. This text should work well for an undergraduate course on the antebellum era. By
                    bringing to light the stories of his eleven intriguing political antislavery leaders, Blue has
                    enriched our understanding of that very diverse movement, and persuasively demonstrated that it
                    cannot be simply characterized.
            RACHEL HOPE CLEVES is assistant professor of history at Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University. She is presently at work on her first book, tentatively entitled
                    "Mortal Eloquence: Violence, Slavery, and Anti-Jacobinism in the Early American
                    Republic."
         
         
            
               Calculating the Value of the Union: Slavery, Property Rights, and the Economic
                        Origins of the Civil War, By James L. Huston, (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xvii, 394. Tables, illustrations, appendices, notes, sources, index.
                    $45.00.)
            James L. Huston has written a smart book explaining why the Civil War could not be avoided. Looking
                    closely at speeches (especially in congressional debates) and at correspondence, Huston works with
                    the actual words of the southern leaders who finally calculated that the union was less valuable to
                    them than their slaves, and who, fearing that the union would someday in some way cost them their
                    slaves, then assailed it in a war that cost them those slaves.
            Southern slaveowners, Huston argues, always understood property differently from northerners and
                    westerners; he redundantly demonstrates from the very words of political leaders,  academics, ministers and other clerical leaders, and other articulate
                    members of the antebellum elite that such property always included the right to own other humans.
                    His apt title comes from the words of one among this group, Thomas L. Cooper, once president of the 
                        South Carolina
                     College. Thisjeffersonian could speak eloquently about liberty, but only for white
                    people, and only in a sense that ensured their right to hold human property. For Cooper, and for
                    others like him, the union's value could be calculated in terms of its support for this
                    specific sense of liberty.
            Huston says early that "property rights in slaves generated the sectional
                    conflict…" (p. xiv). Underneath that cause, he explains, lay the fact that
                    "the concentration of valuable property in one region thwarted any attempt at compromise
                    and undermined the genius of democratic process" (p. xiv). Yet Huston takes pains to
                    distance himself and his thesis from any claims of principled abolitionism "at the
                    North." Instead, he carefully looks at northern political speeches, ministerial
                    pronouncements, and correspondence to show that it was the perceived "unfairness"
                    of slave labor that pushed non-slaveowning farmers off of southern land and into the border states.
                    Without showing much regard for the humanness of the afflicted human property, these once-displaced
                    farmers became "paranoid" that slaveowners would cross the old compromise border
                    lines into midwestern territory, bringing with them the same system of "unfair"
                    and unfree labor (p. 66).
            Indeed the only complaint this reviewer makes about the book is the incongruous labeling of northern
                    attitudes as "paranoid" and slaveowner attitudes as "hysterical"
                    after many carefully arranged tables and much carefully grounded logic to show the solid economic
                    interests underlying their opposing systems. Perhaps Huston is being doubly ironic and having fun
                    with the many historians who use such terms. My own mind runs to Avery Odelle Craven's
                    concept of "emotionalism" as a cause for the breakdown of the national
                    institutions-political, religious, and civict-hat once brokered heated but nonviolent discussions of
                    the conflicts between slaveowners and free labor advocates. For all that, my fondness for the
                    "repressible conflict" concepts of Craven, James Garfield Randall, and David
                    Herbert Donald no longer seems logical after having read Huston's brilliantly wrought
                    argument. The tables and some of the side discussions of the issues alone are worth the price of
                    admission. The volume belongs in your school's library and in your own.
            JOHN HERBERT ROPER is professor of history at Emory & Henry College.
         
         
         
            LETTERS
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Editor,
                        James 
                                        Madison
                                    's article on heroes and changing times in the December 2005
                                    issue inspires me to comment on two Miami Indian leaders who are revered among the
                                    Miami people to this day, but who are little known outside of the Miami Indian
                                    community. Camillus Bundy of 
                                        Wabash County
                                     spent his life and personal resources defending Miami treaty rights. He
                                    was also a key figure in starting new tribal institutions that remain basic to the
                                    Miami Nation of Indians of Indiana. Carmen Ryan followed in Bundy's
                                    footsteps, working in the 1950s to gain claims awards from the Indian Claims
                                    Commission and to once again assert federal recognition for the Indiana Miami tribe.
                        Bundy, who was born in 1854, achieved full status as a Miami leader when he defended
                                    the right of tax exemption on Miami treaty land in the 1890s. After the tribe was
                                    denied federal recognition over this issue in 1897, he founded the Miami reunion in
                                    1903 as a way of bringing Miami people together. In 1923 he sponsored the beginning
                                    of today's state-chartered Miami Nation of Indians of Indiana. At the same
                                    time he fought for Miami treaty rights, selling precious and rare Indian heirlooms
                                    to finance trips to 
                                        Washington
                                    , D.C., to meet federal officials. Bundy died in 1935, leaving behind an
                                    active tribal council fully engaged in regaining tribal rights.
                        Bundy's leadership inspired Carmen Ryan to devote her life to the Miami
                                    tribe. Born in 1900 in 
                                        Wabash County
                                    , she worked with the leaders who incorporated the tribe as the Miami
                                    Nation in 1937. In the late 1930s, she joined the League of Nations of North
                                    American Indians, which defended the rights of many midwestern and northeastern
                                    tribes. After World War II, she became a leading figure in gaining claims awards
                                    from  broken treaties for the Indiana tribe,
                                    traveling to the National Archives in 
                                        Washington
                                     to research Miami treaties and documents. After Congress paid the
                                    initial claims awards in the 1970s, she uncovered the mismanagement of millions of
                                    dollars of Miami money by private banks.
                        Thanks to Ryan's well-documented research, there was no doubt as to the
                                    validity of the Miami treaty of June 6, 1854, and its subsequent defense by the
                                    tribal council of the Miami Nation when the tribe petitioned for federal recognition
                                    in the 1980s. She greatly assisted me in gaining access to Indiana tribal documents
                                    that supported recognition of the Indiana Miami tribe by the federal government. She
                                    died in 1985, during the federal recognition process.
                        In a lengthy report made in 1991, the U.S. Department of Interior recognized the
                                    validity of the 1854 Miami treaty. Unfortunately, the Seventh District of the
                                    federal court system denied federal recognition of the tribal government (and broke
                                    the 1854 treaty) on the basis of a 1992 administrative decision of the Branch of
                                    Federal Acknowledgment within the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Despite this setback,
                                    the example of these two courageous Miami leaders remains to guide the Indiana Miami
                                    tribe today. The tribal government continues in Peru, Indiana, and works with a
                                    tribal membership of more than 5,000, about half of whom live in the original tribal
                                    settlement area in the Wabash Valley between Peru and Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    .
                        
                                    STEWART RAFERT
                                    
                              ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
                              UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            RECENT ARTICLES, BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, DISSERTATIONS, AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS IN INDIANA HISTORY
            Compiled by SUZANNE HAHN, Indiana Historical Society
            
               Akerman, James R., and Daniel Block, "The Shifting Agendas of Midwestern Official
                        State Highway Maps," 
                            Michigan
                        
                        Historical Review, 31 (Spring 2005).
               Akins, Thomas N., "Plenty of Strings Attached: The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Symphony Orchestra at Seventy-Five," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, 17 (Summer 2005).
               Aley, Ginette, "Grist, Grit, and Rural Society in the Early Nineteenth Century
                        Midwest: Insight Gleaned from Grain,"
                     Ohio Valley
                            History, 5 (Summer 2005).
               Andorfer, Donald, Indiana Tech: The First 75 Years (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind.: Indiana Tech, 2005).
               Banta, Ray, More of Indiana's Laughmakers: Actors, Cartoonists, Writers,
                            and Others (
                            Indianapolis
                        : PennUltimate Press, 2005).
               Barnes, Sandra L., The Cost of Being Poor: A Comparative Study of Life in Poor
                            Urban Neighborhoods in Gary, Indiana (
                            Albany
                        : State University of 
                            New York
                         Press, 2005).
               Bassett, Beth, "Iroquois Township Conservation Club's Newsletter-Iroquois News," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer,
                        10 (Summer/Fall 2005).
               Baumgardner, Randy, ed., 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Pictorial History, 1835-2005 (Paducah, Ky: Turner Pub. Co., 2005).
               
               Bigham, Darrel E., "The Abraham Lincoln Collections at the Indiana Historical
                        Society," Indiana Magazine of History, 101 (March 2005).
               
                  
                            Blackford County
                        : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2005).
               Blakey, George T., Creating a Hoosier Self-Portrait: The Federal
                            Writers' Project in Indiana, 1935-1942 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Blakey, George T. "Morgan's Raid: Childhood Memories of the Civil War in
                        Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Fall 2005).
               Bodenhamer, David J., and Randall T. Shepard, "The Narratives and Counternarratives
                        of Indiana Legal History," Indiana Magazine of History, 101 (December
                        2005).
               Boomhower, Ray E., "Destination Indiana: Copshaholm: 
                            South Bend
                        's Masterpiece," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, 17 (Fall 2005).
               Boomhower, Ray E. The Sword and the Pen: A Life of Lew Wallace (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               
                  
                            Brown
                        , Richard E, "Preserved Canals of 
                            Elkhart County
                        ," The Hoosier Packet, 4 (September 2005).
               Cairns, Malcolm, "An Elegant Vision: Indiana's Historic Landscape
                        Architecture," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Fall
                        2005).
               Cavinder, Fred D., comp., The Indiana Book of Quotes (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               Chapman, Clifford R., "The Jewel of 
                            Jennings County
                        ," Outdoor Indiana, 70 (July/August 2005). [The Calli
                        Nature Preserve.]
               Clark, George P, ‘"Battles Long Ago’: A Hoosier Civil War
                        Veteran and His Memoir of Service in the Western Theater," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, 101 (March 2005).
               "Cobb Shinn," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Postcard Club (June 2005). [Features cards by 
                            Indianapolis
                         illustrator Cobb Shinn.]
               Connolly, James J., "The Legacies of 
                            Middletown
                        : Introduction," Indiana Magazine of History, 101
                        (September 2005).
               Connor, Tina, "Williamson Leaves Preservation Legacy," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April 2005). [Retirement of Historic Landmarks of Indiana
                        President Reid Williamson.]
               Conrad, Kyle, "Women Sheriffs from Newton County," Newton County Historical
                        Society Newcomer, 10 (Winter/Spring 2005).
               Davis, Charles, "Wrecks in the Wabash River during Canal Days in 
                            Parke County
                        , Indiana," The Hoosier Packet, 4 (July 2005).
               Davis, Madelyn Pugh, Laughing with Lucy: My Life with America's Leading
                            Lady of Comedy (
                            Cincinnati
                        : Emmis Books, 2005).
               
               De Kever, Peter, "On the Brink: 
                            Shelby
                         Shake and Johnny Wooden," Indiana Basketball History
                            Magazine, 13 (Summer 2005). [
                            Mishawaka
                         High School and 
                            South Bend
                         Central basketball rivalry.]
               Denker, Ellen Paul, "Creating a Life: The Overbeck Sisters and Their 
                            Cambridge
                         City Pottery," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        17 (Spring 2005).
               Diebold, Paul, The History and Architecture of Meridian-Kessler (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Meridian-Kessler Neighborhood Association, 2005).
               
                  
                            Elkhart County
                        : Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2005).
               "Essex Group, Inc.," Old Fort News, 68, No. 1 (2005).
                        [Provides a history of the company as it celebrates its seventy-fifth year in business.]
               FitzGibbon, Daniel H., "To Bear Any Burden": A Hoosier Green
                            Beret's Letters from 
                                Vietnam
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               Fowler, J. D., "This is in Brief My Remenence of My army Life': The Civil
                        War Memoir of Louis Bir," Indiana Magazine of History, 101 (March
                        2005).
               Gehring, Wes D.James Dean: Rebel with a Cause (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               -"The Last Ride: The Death of James Dean," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, 17 (Spring 2005).
               Girardin, G. Russell, Dillinger: The Untold Story (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005). [Expanded edition.]
               Goodrich, Thomas, Darkest Dawn: Lincoln, Booth and the Great American
                        Tragedy (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Gorski, David, ‘"Our Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Battery’ of the Civil War," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, 45 (Summer 2005).
               Greiff, Glory-June, "Lions and Santas and Bears, Oh My! From Remembrance, Faith and Fancy: Outdoor Public Sculpture in Indiana," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Summer 2005).
               
                  -Remembrance, Faith, and Fancy: Outdoor Public Sculpture in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               Grunden, Russell, "Step by Step… Acre by Acre,"Outdoor Indiana, 70 (January /February 2005).[Indiana Heritage Trust projects.]
               Hall, Nathan, "Remembering the Long March: Potawatomie Descendants to Honor Trail of
                        Exiled Ancestors," 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Heritage, 8 (Jury/August 2005).
               Hiner, Jason, Indiana University Basketball Encyclopedia (
                            Champaign
                        , Ill.: Sports Publishing, 2005).
               Holliday, Murray, A History of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, 1916-2005 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Society of Indiana Pioneers, 2005).
               
               "The Honorable John Comstock," Newsletter of the North 
                                Manchester
                             Historical Society, 22 (May 2005).
               Igo, Sarah E., "From Main Street to Mainstream: 
                            Middletown
                        , 
                            Muncie
                        , and ‘Typical America,"’ Indiana
                            Magazine of History, 101 (September 2005).
               Immel, Mary Blair, "
                            Boone County's
                         ‘
                            Kansas
                         Colony,’" The Hoosier Genealogist, 45 (Spring
                        2005).
               "Indiana High Schools," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Postcard Club (September 2005).
               
                  Indiana Sporting Life: Selections from Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Museum of Art: Highlights of the Collection (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 2005).
               Ingraham, Ruth Ann, "I Remember When: Clarence ‘Cap’ Cornish: A
                        Life in Flight," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Fall
                        2005).
               
                  -Swimming with Frogs: Life in the 
                                Brown County
                             Hills (
                            Bloomington
                        : Quarry Books/Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Johnson, Patricia H., "Researching in Indiana Courthouses," The
                            Hoosier Genealogist, 45 (Fall 2005).
               Jones, Amanda C, "Researching Your Indiana Family Tree Using the Genealogical Society
                        of 
                            Utah
                        's Family History Library System," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, 44 (Winter 2004).
               Jones, Darryl L., Amish Life: Living Plainly and Serving God (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Koegel, Julie K., History of Women's Fund in Central Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Women's Fund of Central Indiana, Central Indiana Community Foundation,
                        2005).
               Kollath, Jeff, "Everyday People, Everyday Music: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Soul and Funk," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, 17 (Spring 2005).
               Krasean, Thomas, ed., 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Civil War Round Table: Our First Fifty Years, 1955-2005 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.: AuthorHouse, 2005).
               "Landmarks of Transportation," Indiana Preservationist,
                        No. 2 (March/April 2005). [Series of articles on Indiana's historic railroad, aviation,
                        and automobile sites.]
               Lane, James B., "Gary's First Hundred Years: A Centennial History of Gary
                        Indiana, 1906-2006," Steel Shavings, 37 (2006).
               Lantzer, Jason S., "The Other Side of Campus: Indiana University's Student
                        Right and the Rise of National Conservatism," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 101 (June 2005).
               Longest, David E., Railroad Depots of Southern Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S. C.: Arcadia, 2005).
               
               Lynd, Staughton, "Making 
                            Middletown
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, 101 (September 2005).
               "The Made in Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Exhibition 1905," Old Fort News, 68, No. 2 (2005).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Heroes, Changing Times, and the Indiana Magazine
                            of History, 1905-2005," Indiana Magazine of History, 101
                        (December 2005).
               
                  A Man with a Price on His Head: The Life and Times of George Boxley
                        (Sheridan, Ind.: Sheridan Historical Society, 2005).
               Marr, Dennis E M., "Til Death (or Divorce) Do Us Part: A Tangled Matrimonial Web in
                        Jackson County, Indiana," The Hoosier Genealogist, 44 (Winter 2004).
               May, Bill, Tourney Time: The Indiana High School Athletic Association
                            Boys' Basketball Tournament, 1911-2005 (
                            Cincinnati
                        : Emmis Books, 2005). [2d edition.]
               Meyers, Thomas J. and Steven M. Nolt, An Amish Patchwork: Indiana's Old
                            Orders in the Modern World (
                            Bloomington
                        : Quarry Books/Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Michna, Mary Ann, "Entering James Dean Country: 
                            Fairmount
                        , Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17
                        (Spring 2005).
               Miller, John E., "Ernie Pyle: From Hoosier Farm Boy to the GI's
                        Friend," American History, 40 (October 2005).
               Mills, Randy K., Jonathan Jennings: Indiana's First Governor (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005).
               Mills, Randy K., "They Defended Themselves Nobly': A Story of African
                        American Empowerment in 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1857," Black History News & Notes, No.
                        101 (August 2005).
               Mills, Randy K., "Throwed by as useless': Indiana Governor Jonathan
                        Jennings," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Fall 2005).
               Mohon, Timothy, "Southern Methodism in 
                            Brown County
                        , Indiana, 1874-1907," The Hoosier Genealogist, 45
                        (Summer 2005).
               Morris, Roy, Jr., "
                            Tippecanoe
                         and Cider Too: The Improbable, Irrepressible Election of 1840," Timeline, 22 (December 2005).
               Nation, Richard 
                            Franklin
                        , At Home in the Hoosier Hills: Agriculture, Politics, and Religion in
                            Southern Indiana, 1810-1870 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               
                  Natural Resources and the Great Depression in Martin County and South-Central
                            Indiana: The Memoirs of William B. Barnes, Sr., ed. Weintraut & Associates
                        Historians, Inc. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Bureau, 2005). [Volume 56 of Indiana Historical
                            Collections series.]
               Nipp, James E., "The 
                            Henry County
                         Indiana Court House: A Collection of Stories from Years Past," 
                            Henry County
                        
                        Historicalog, 33 (Spring 2005).
               
               O'Bryan, Ann, "Mt. Pleasant Library: Reading among African Americans in
                        19th-century 
                            Rush County
                        , Indiana," Black History News & Notes, No. 102
                        (November 2005).
               Orr, Patricia Shires, "The WPA Inventories of County Archives," The Hoosier Genealogist, 45 (Spring 2005).
               Perry, Rachel Berenson, "John Zwara: The Wandering Artist," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Summer 2005).
               Peters, Pamela R., "Journey to the Underground Railroad in 
                            Floyd County
                        , Indiana," Black History News & Notes, No. 100
                        (May 2005).
               Pierce, Richard B., Polite Protest: The Political Economy of Race in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1920-1970 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Price, Nelson, Indiana Legends: Famous Hoosiers from Johnny Appleseed to David
                            Letterman (
                            Cincinnati
                        : Emmis Books, 2005). [4th edition]
               Price, Nelson, "‘Old 98’: Football Legend Tom Harmon,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Summer 2005).
               Price, Nelson, "Tom Harmon and Show Business," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, 17 (Summer 2005).
               Redmond, Mike, The Night the Wheels Fell Off: Stories, Essays, and Other Goofy
                            Stuff (
                            Cincinnati
                        : Emmis Books, 2005).
               Rees, James D., "The Bond-Jones Duel and the Shooting of Rice Jones by Dr. James
                        Dunlap: What Really Happened in 
                            Kaskaskia
                        , Indiana Territory on 8 August and 7 December 1808?" Journal
                            of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, 97 (Winter 2004-2005).
               Regan-Dinius, Jeannie, "A Different Kind of Railroad-A Different Kind of Hoosier:
                        Levi Coffin and the Underground Railroad," Outdoor Indiana, 70
                        (July/August 2005).
               Ricketts, Sandy, "Locating Orphanages in Indiana from 1883 to 1949," The Hoosier Genealogist, 45 (Spring 2005). [Overview of database available
                        from Indiana State Archives.]
               Ridolph, Edward, "
                            Louisville
                        's Urban Interurban," National Railway Bulletin,
                        69, No. 2 (2004). [New 
                            Albany
                         & 
                            Louisville
                         Railway]
               Ross, V.A., Indiana Post Offices (Hope, Ind.: Indiana Postal History
                        Society, [2005]).
               Rund, Christopher, The Indiana Rail Road Company: America's New Regional
                            Railroad (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Sailors, Peggy, "Bringing Secret History to Light: Documenting and Preserving
                        Landmarks of the Underground Railroad," Indiana Preservationist, No.
                        1 (January/February 2005).
               Schenning, Craig S., A Century of Indiana Glass (Atglen, Penn.: Schiffer,
                        2005).
               
               Scott, D. Bruce, Indy: Racing Before the 500: The Untold Story
                            of the Brickyard (Batesville, Ind.: Indiana Reflections, LLC, 2005).
               Shepard, Randall T., State of the Judiciary: ‘Good Enough’
                            isn't Good Enough ([
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.: s. n.], 2005).
               Shupert-Arick, Jan, "Eastern Indiana's Lincoln Highway," The Lincoln Highway Forum, 13 (Winter 2005-2006).
               Sleeth, Peter, "The Underground Railroad and the Marshall Family of Economy,
                        Indiana," The Hoosier Genealogist, 45 (Fall 2005).
               Smith, Bruce C., The War Comes to Plum Street (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2005).
               Snyder, Suzanne G., "Singing Societies of Indiana," Indiana
                            German Heritage Society Newsletter, 21 (Spring 2005).
               
                  Starke County: Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2005).
               Straw, John B., "Documenting 
                            Middletown
                        : From the Lynds to the 
                            Middletown
                         Digital Archives," Indiana Magazine of History, 101
                        (September 2005).
               "Super Stars of Architecture," Indiana Preservationist,
                        No. 4 (July/August 2005). [Series of articles covering Daniel Burnham and Louis Sullivan, Eero
                        Saarinen, John Lloyd Wright, Michael Graves, and Alden B. Dow.]
               "Thirty Years at the Indiana Magazine of History: A Conversation
                        with Lorna Lutes Sylvester," Indiana Magazine of History, 101
                        (December 2005).
               Thornton, W. W, and Douglas Fivecoat, Isaac 
                                Blackford
                            : The Indiana Blackstone (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Supreme Court, 2005).
               Vander Hill, C. Warren, "The 
                            Middletown
                         Jewish Oral History Project II," Indiana Jewish History,
                        No. 37 (2005). [Interviews of members of Temple Beth El in 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana].
               Vaughn, Stephen, "The Devil's Advocate: Will H. Hays and the Campaign to
                        Make Movies Respectable," Indiana Magazine of History, 101 (June
                        2005).
               Wagner, Phil, "A Duesy of a Trip," Outdoor Indiana, 70
                        (July/August 2005).
               [Highlights transportation museums in the state.]
               Weber, Catherine E. Forrest, "Exploring Ancient Worlds: The Life of Mary 
                            Hamilton
                         Swindler," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 17
                        (Spring 2005).
               Wepler, William, and Daniel Goodman, "No. 2," Outdoor
                        Indiana, 70 (March/April 2005). [Community House Number 2, early 19th century dormitory in 
                            New Harmony
                        .]
               Wertheim, L. Jon, Transition Game: How Hoosiers Went Hip-Hop (
                            New York
                        : G.P. 
                            Putnam
                        's Sons, 2005).
               
               
                  Whispers to Shouts: Indiana Women Who Create Art (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana State Museum and Indiana State Museum Foundation, 2005). [Published in
                        conjunction with 2005 exhibit held at Indiana State Museum.]
               White, Samuel William, Fragile Alliances: Labor and Politics in 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, 1919-1955 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn.: Praeger Publishers, 2005).
               Whitford, Frederick, and Andrew G. Martin, The Grand Old Man of Purdue University
                            and Indiana Agriculture: A Biography of William Carroll Latta (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2005).
               Williams, Olgen, Healing the Heart, Healing the 'hood (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2005).
               Willis, Imel H., Plow a Straight Row: Willisville Beginnings and Beyond
                        (Decorah, la.: Anundsen Publishing Co., 2005).
               Wyman, Tom, "
                            Evansville
                         Firm Becomes Iron Giant," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5
                        (September/October 2006). [George L. Mesker & Co., manufacturers of storefront
                    facades.]
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
