
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 27, Issue 3, pages 183-278. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:27+issue:3+year:1931&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Richard W. Thompson: a Political Conservative in the Fifties
            BY CHARLES ROLL
            
            Richard W. Thompson was born in Culpepper County in the heart of the 
                        Virginia
                     Piedmont on June 9, 1809. He grew up amid unusual surroundings, coming under the direct
                    influence of men of the Revolutionary period. It was his good fortune to see Jefferson, 
                        Madison
                    , and 
                        Monroe
                    , whose homes were not distant from Culpepper. He was present at the inauguration of
                    Andrew Jackson in 1829. His father and many of his relatives were slave owners, but young Thompson
                    saw none of the harsher aspects of slavery. The system was to a large extent a patriarchal one in
                    the 
                        Virginia
                     of that period. This may account in part for his conservatism on the subject in later
                    life.
            Like hundreds of other young Virginians of the time his thoughts began to turn toward the great West.
                    In 1831 he set out on horseback through the wilderness for the country beyond the mountains. For a
                    short time he clerked in a store in 
                        Louisville
                     from whence he removed to 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana. Here he presided over the Lawrence County Seminary for a term and was then
                    employed in a store. Into his hands fell some law books which he diligently read. Charles Dewey, one
                    of the most prominent lawyers of southern Indiana of that day, was attracted to the young man and
                    loaned him more books. He was soon admitted to the 
                        Bedford
                     bar. In 1834 he was elected to the lower house of the General Assembly as a Whig, a
                    party name just coming into use. Here he served two terms and in 1836 was elected to the state
                    senate, where he was chosen president pro tern. In the state  legislature he became an ardent champion of internal improvements.
            Thompson was one of the original Harrison men in Indiana, and served as one of the galaxy of Whig
                    orators in the famous "log cabin and hard cider" campaign of 1840. The reputation
                    that he achieved in this contest led to his election to Congress from the second congressional
                    district in 1841.
            As a member of the twenty-seventh Congress, Thompson joined with the Whig majority in the war against
                    Tyler. He was one of the signers of the "Manifesto." He followed the leadership of
                    Henry Clay, supporting the bank bills, distribution, and a protective tariff. He likewise worked
                    earnestly for an appropriation to complete the Cumberland Road. The heated controversy over slavery
                    and the lack of interest manifested in matters of real importance to the country were strongly
                    condemned by Thompson. He was not a candidate for reelection. In 1843 he removed from 
                        Bedford
                     to the growing town of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where he soon became one of the leading lawyers. In 1844 he served again as one of the
                    Whig presidential electors. Three years later, he was chosen a member of the national Hohe of
                    Representatives from the seventh district, defeating Joseph A. Wright.
            As a member of the thirtieth Congress, he formed a close friendship with Lincoln, the lone Whig
                    representative from 
                        Illinois
                    . He joined the Whig attack upon the Mexican War, claiming that Polk had forced the war
                    upon the country in an unconstitutional manner. At the same time, he became one of the outstanding
                    opponents among northern Whigs of anti-slavery agitation. He voted against the prohibition of
                    slavery as well as the prohibition of the slave trade in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    . In 1848 he favored the nomination of Henry Clay for president. However, following the
                    nomination of Zachary Taylor, he supported him. Tlie speech of Colonel Thompson which was received
                    with greatest enthusiasm during the campaign was delivered at a ratification meeting in Monument
                    Square, 
                        Baltimore
                    , for which the citizens of that city presented him with a silver goblet.
            Thompson early became one of the supporters of a railroad to the Pacific. He joined forces in Indiana
                    with the forward looking men in behalf of the movement for free public schools. His retirement from
                    Congress in 1849 marked  in no degree any slackening of interest
                    upon his part in the political issues of the day. He found himself in general agreement with
                    Presidect Taylor's views on the slavery question. The President recommended that Congress
                    await the action of 
                        California
                     and 
                        New Mexico
                     in forming state governments for themselves. "We should abstain,"
                    Taylor declared, "from the introduction of these exciting topics of a sectional
                        character."1
            
            Thompson wrote a series of articles for the National Intelligencer, one of the
                    leading Whig newspapers of the country which was published in 
                        Washington
                    , in support of Taylor's position. The articles appeared in February, 1850,
                    after 
                        Clay
                    's Compromise Measures had been introduced, and were signed
                    "Americus." The contributions were represented by the editors as coming from a
                    source so much entitled to respect that they felt bound to make room for them in their columns.
            The writer began by declaring that the debate in Congress had awakened in his mind "a most
                    painful anxiety" for the safety of the Union. Every man was justified in saying what he
                    could to quiet the tempest into which the public mind had been lashed. He hoped to be able to
                    contribute something "to that quiet and respose" which the country so much needed.
                    He was prompted only, he said, by a national spirit and by a fixed attachment to every part of the
                    Union. He had examined 
                        Clay
                    's proposals and had heard his speech in Congress. While commending 
                        Clay
                    's mighty effort to preserve and perpetuate the Union and to arouse the spirit
                    of compromise in both sections, he did not consider them as the most practicable method of adjusting
                    the difficulties. He considered the 
                        Texas
                     boundary question a judicial one which belonged to the Supreme Court. It was not the
                    time to bring up the question of slavery or the slave trade in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    , nor the question of a fugitive slave law. He did not think it necessary to provide a
                    territorial government for 
                        New Mexico
                     at once, as this would only operate to widen the breach. He would admit 
                        California
                     with her constitution as communicated to Congress by the President. As to 
                        New Mexico
                     and Deseret (
                        Utah
                    ), he would adppt a policy of "hands off"—and await action
                    upon their part. 
                  
                     1 First annual message of President Zachary Taylor. December 4,
                        1849.
               
                     He would admit them into the Union as soon as they should
                    acquire the necessary population and adopt a constitution. He believed that the people of a
                    territory should have the right to form a constitution prohibiting or recognizing slavery as they
                    pleased. The North held one view relative to the question of slavery in the territories, the South
                    held another. He would have Congress leave the question alone.
            "Americus" [Thompson] spoke as "a son of the South," as one who
                    first saw the light beneath her mild sky, the bones of whose fathers slept under her sod, and who
                    loved her with a devotion which neither age, nor time, nor absence, nor circumstances could abate.
                    Continuing, he declared: "Under the influence of all these emotions which crowd upon me I
                    solemnly aver that I would not counsel her to a deed that would sully that fame, or tarnish that
                    honor. When I speak of the fame and honor of the South, I speak of it as blended with the fame and
                    honor of the North."
            Concerning the Abolitionists, Thompson could not speak too bitterly, They were referred to as having
                    "assailed with a reckless malignity of heart the integrity of the Union. They have kept the
                    caulron of their passions boiling over by their treasonable design beneath the pretense of humanity
                    and philanthropy…. They have borne about with them the torch of the incendiary, with
                    which they would fire the Capitol from its basement to its dome. They would light up the fires of
                    civil discord all over the land and exult in the work of their desolation."
            The great body of the people in the North were conservative. They were as true to the impulses of a
                    lofty patriotism as the people of the South. They loved the Union. They would trust the South if the
                    South would trust them. The great majority of the people of the country he believed, were willing to
                    stand on the ground of compromise. Their patriotism was not bounded by geographical divisions nor
                    circumscribed by state lines.
            President Taylor's course was defended. "He has stood," declared the
                    writer, "like a faithful sentinel upon the watch towers guarding the rights of both the
                    North and the South and [is] determined to stand by the Union at all hazards."2
            
            On July 5, 1850, Thompson addressed a letter to the two Senators from Indiana, both Democrats, James
                    Whitcomb 
                  
                     2
                            National Intelligencer, February 18, 20, 26, 1850.
               
                     and Jesse D. Bright, approving of their support of 
                        Clay
                    's Compromise proposals. He still preferred Taylor's plan but thought
                    there was little chance of its being adopted. "Under this state of things," he
                    wrote, "I should consider it my duty to support any other proposition that would be likely
                    to restore peace, harmony, and quiet to the country. I would therefore vote without hesitation for
                    the bill reported by Mr. Clay from the select committee of thirteen. I would vote for it as a peace
                    offering upon the altar of the Union and with a conviction that it would restore concord to the
                    country while it would furnish to neither the North nor South any ground for exaltation."
                    He then entered into a lengthy defense of the Fugitive Slave Bill.
            Following the adoption of the Compromise proposals of 1850, Thompson upheld them. The main features
                    of the Compromise he regarded as being based upon the general principles avowed by General Taylor.
            Colonel Thompson attended the Whig convention at 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1852 though not as a delegate. The balloting at this convention for a candidate for
                    president was prolonged. Becoming alarmed over the strong sectional feeling manifested and fearing
                    the break-up of the convention without nominating anyone, Thompson addressed a communication to the
                    Indiana delegates who had been voting as a unit for Scott, advising them to cast the vote of the
                    state for Fillmore. This action he believed would settle the controversy at once. It would be an
                    example of conciliation. It would be very appropriate because the Whig party in Indiana was
                    conservative, had full confidence in Fillmore, and approved of his administration.3
            
            Thompson's views concerning the Whig nomination were shared by many conservative Whigs.
                    Fillmore was the logical candidate. Webster was willing to withdraw in his favor. 
                        Clay
                     declared from his death bed, "Fillmore by all means." Either Fillmore
                    or Webster could have been nominated had their supporters been able to unite on one or the other
                    candidate. Southern Whigs agreed at a conference to go over to Webster providing sufficient northern
                    votes could be pledged to the 
                        Massachusetts
                     leader to give him the nomination. These votes could not be secured and on the
                    fifty-third 
                  
                     3 Richard W. Thompson to the Indiana delegates to the Whig Convention
                            at 
                                Baltimore
                            , June 18, 1862. Thompson mss.
               
                ballot, after a platform had been agreed upon endorsing
                    the compromise measures, enough Southern Whigs went over to Scott to give him the nomination.
            Thompson was again named by the Indiana Whig Convention of 1852 as one of the presidential
                        electors.4 He participated actively in the campaign, speaking for Scott at 
                        Baltimore
                     (where he had received his great ovation four years before) and other places in the
                    east. Early in October he delivered a three hour address in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He subscribed to the doctrine of "finality" and assured his audience
                    of the Whig candidate's sympathy with the compromise measures.5
            
            Many Southern Whigs, however, feared Scott's loyalty to the compromise measures. They
                    believed him to be under the influence of northern anti-slavery Whigs, such as Seward. "He
                    is the favorite candidate of the Free-Soil wing of the Whig Party," wrote Alexander H.
                    Stephens, "and as such, in my judgment, he is not entitled to the support of any Southern
                    man who looks to the protection of the rights of the South and the Union of the states."6
            
            The Whigs were disastrously defeated in the election. Scott lost all of the states of the Old
                    Northwest. He carried, in fact, but four states in the Union. This proved to be the last battle
                    waged by the Whig Party under that name. When, two years later, as a result of the 
                        Kansas
                     struggle, the Republican Party was born, the great mass of the Whigs in the north went
                    into that party. Thompson's conservatism led him to hold aloof from this new party in its
                    early years. He was an "old line Whig" who found it difficult to affiliate with
                    any sectional party.
            Many Whigs sought refuge in the American Party, commonly known as the
                    "Know-Nothing" Party. This party was quite generally regarded as the successor of
                    the Whig Party. In affiliating with it the old Whigs certainly surrendered none of their principles.
                    Some even believed that it would result in the resuscitation of the Whig Party itself.7 "The star of Whiggery must rise and its flame be rekindled," wrote the
                    editor of the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Express.
            
            Richard W. Thompson joined the American Party and 
                  
                     4
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, March 3, 1862.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., September 29. 1862.
                  
                     6 Alexander H. Stephens to the editor of the Augusts (
                                Georgia
                            ) Chronicle and Sentinel, in American Historical
                                Association Report, 1911, II, p. 804.
                  
                     7 Arthur C. Cole, The Whig Party in the South (
                                Washington
                            . 1918), pp. 320-321.
               
                     became one of its leaders in Indiana. Among other prominent
                    Whigs to become identified with the party were ex-president Fillmore of 
                        New York
                    , John Bell of 
                        Tennessee
                    , John J. Grit-tenden of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Willie P. Mangum of 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            The secrecy of the Know-Nothing movement and the anti-foreign, anti-Catholic activities of some of
                    its supporters in the larger cities, have received much attention. The more significant aspects of
                    the American Party as a conservative force in politics have been largely ignored. Yet it was this
                    phase of the movement that appealed to men of the character of Thompson, Fillmore, Bell, and
                    Crittenden. "I claim to be a Whig," declared Thompson in 1855. "I started
                    a Whig, I have always been a Whig without wavering or shadow of turning to the right or to the left.
                    I have served that party when I had the strength to serve it, and now though as a party it may not
                    exist, I cherish its principles with all the ardour of my nature."8
            
            Toward abolitionists Thompson's opinion had not changed. He exhausted his vocabulary in
                    denouncing them. "They snuff excitement from every breeze," he exclaimed,
                    "and go forth like a war horse always ready for battle, provided the rights of the negro
                    are assailed! They can listen perfectly unmoved to the wrongs of the white man, his cries and
                    agonies do not reach their ears. To his voice of supplication they are always deaf. Hundreds of
                    thousands of their own race may be slain upon the field of inglorious war, and their un-buried and
                    decaying bodies may turn whole plains and valleys into lazar-houses of the dead, yet no sympathetic
                    groan escapes from them. But if a single lash is drawn across the back of a disobedient slave, they
                    shrink with holy horror at the thought…. And these are the men with whom you and I are
                    asked to unite in political action. For one, I will not do it. The spirit of the departed dead
                    forbids it. The voice of my fathers crying to me from the tomb forbids it. All my past associations
                    forbid it. My devotion to Whig principles forbids it. My devotion to the Union forbids it. The
                    admonitions of the Father of his Country forbid it. My om heart and conscience forbid it. And come
                    what may I will not do it."9
            
            
               
                  8 Speech of Thompson in 
                            Terre Haute
                         on the "Political Aspects of the Slavery Question," August 11,
                        1866.
               
                        9
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Concerning the sincerity of Thompson's motives there can be no question. He had no selfish
                    ends to serve. He was not a seeker for political preferment. "I care not what they call
                    me," he declared, "So long as I have the approval of my own conscience and feel
                    that I am right. As for their offices, I despise them. I would not exchange the quiet of my own home
                    here amongst you my neighbors and friends, for all the offices they can give or take away."
            The speech quoted from above was delivered in 
                        Terre Haute
                     on August 11, 1855. It resulted in a bitter controversy between Thompson and Horace
                    Greeley. In the columns of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune Greeley attempted to convict Thompson of inconsistency. He pointed out
                    that as a member of the thirtieth congress Thompson had supported a bill to organize the territory
                    acquired from Mexico with slavery excluded. This accusation was flatly denied by Colonel Thompson.
                    He had simply voted on one occasion against a motion to lay the bill on the table and on another
                    occasion in favor of reporting the bill to the House. He had no intention of voting for the measure
                    on its final passage. He declared that he would have voted also for a resolution, the Gott
                    Resolution, to report a bill providing for the abolition of slavery in the District of 
                        Columbia
                     but for a preamble which he regarded as offensive to the South. But this did not mean
                    that he would have supported a bill to abolish slavery in the District of 
                        Columbia
                     on the final vote. Members of Congress frequently voted in favor of reporting measures
                    to which they were absolutely opposed.
            The controversy proved that Thompson was perfectly able to take care of himself and that when aroused
                    he was as apt with the pen as was Greeley in the use of scathing invective. He concluded his letter
                    to Greeley as follows: "If you are resolved that I shall have no further space in the
                    Tribune I propose that you meet me upon the stump and discuss the questions at issue…. I
                    will come to the city of 
                        New York
                     and meet you there. I will let you fight upon your own dunghill. Then we will be upon
                    equal terms where blows can be given as well as taken."10
            
            Millard Fillmore was nominated for president and Andrew J. Donelson of 
                        Tennessee
                     for vice-president by the national 
                  
                     10 Thompson to Greeley, January—, 1866. Thompson
                        mss.
               
                     conveniton of the American Party which met in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on February 22, 1856. Fillmore was touring Europe at the time. In a letter written from 
                        Paris
                    , he accepted the nomination because of a desire to see the administration of the
                    government restored to the original simplicity and purity which marked its early years. The new
                    political organization had sprung up because of the tendency toward disunion. It alone, he believed,
                    was possessed of the power to restore harmony by its own example of moderation and forbearance.11
            
            A remnant of the old Whig Party met in convention at 
                        Baltimore
                     on September 17 with Edward Bates of 
                        Missouri
                     presiding. This convention also nominated Fillmore and Donelson. Thompson was chosen as
                    permanent chairman of the state convention of the American Party which met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 16. Resolutions were adopted endorsing the nomination of Fillmore and declaring
                    against the agitation of the slavery question. "We desire to see an American administration
                    by a president whose patriotism is broad enough to embrace all the great interests of the whole
                    country," was the pronouncement of the convention. Electors were named by the convention
                    but no nominations for state offices were made.12
            
            The party, under the direction of Thompson, conducted a vigorous campaign, especially in the southern
                    part of the state. Near the middle of July, he spoke in 
                        Terre Haute
                     to a large audience. The platform upon which Buchanan, the Democratic candidate for
                    president, was running, was characterized as altogether sectional. That upon which 
                        Fremont
                    , the Republican candidate for president, stood, was the work of northern men alone.
                    Both factions were day by day "weakening the bonds that bound together in one common
                    brotherhood this union of states." Fillmore was portrayed as "the great embodiment
                    of the conservative national element of this country." Rebuking the fanaticism of both
                    North and South on the slavery question, Thompson commended the friends of Fillmore for standing
                    upon the principles once championed by "America's greatest statesman, the immortal
                    Henry Clay." This speech was four hours in length. It was 
                  
                     11
                            Millard Fillmore Papers, Buffalo Historical Society, Publications, Vol. II, pp. 358-360.
                  
                     12
                            Sentinel (
                                Indianapolis
                            ), July 17, 1856.
               
                     characterized as a strong, logical, constitutional argument
                    with every point guarded by the skill of a master.13
            
            Some idea of the exertions of Thompson in 1856 may be gained from the following letter of a citizen
                    of 
                        Terre Haute
                     which is quoted in part: "We are peculiarly situated here. R. W. Thompson is
                    using extraordinary means to prevent an organization upon 
                        Fremont
                    …. He maintains that the Planter has the same right to occupy the territories
                    with his slaves that the northern farmer has with his horses. Thompson is making desperate exertions
                    to carry his points, he does what he has seldom done before; he is on the streets and at the corners
                    in season and out of season, trying to inveigh old Whigs into his scheme of resuscitating the Whig
                        Party."14
            
            Before the campaign ended, Thompson took the place of one of the American electors who had withdrawn.
                    Some of the Fillmore leaders of 
                        New York
                     suggested that the electoral ticket in Indiana be withdrawn in order to give the state
                    to Frémont. It was believed that this would increase the chances of throwing the election
                    into the House of Representatives, where Fillmore would probably be chosen as a compromise
                    candidate. This action was opposed by Thompson on the ground that it was too late to swing the vote
                    to Frémont. Fillmore received 22, 386 votes in Indiana, while Buchanan's
                    plurality over Frémont was 24, 295. Fillmore's total popular vote in the entire
                    country amounted to 874,534. He obtained the electorial vote of only one state, 
                        Maryland
                    . The Democrats were again successful in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . They lost three of the states of the Old Northwest, 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , to the new Republican party. The tide which was to carry the Republicans to victory
                    four years later had already set in.
            The decline of the American Party was rapid after the election of 1856. A state convention of the
                    party met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 17, 1857. Thompson was present and served as chairman of the committee on
                    resolutions. A platform was reported reaffirming the conservative position of the party on the
                    slavery question. Early in June of the same year the national council of the Americans assembled at 
                        Louisville
                    . Thompson attended the meeting as a delegate 
                  
                     13
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, July 18, 1868.
                  
                     14 J. O. Jones to Henry S. Lane. June 26, 1866. Lane Papers
                        (mmas)
               
                     from Indiana and played a prominent part in its deliberations.
                    During the succeeding two years Thompson and other American leaders in Indiana devoted their
                    energies to keeping alive the principles advocated by the party endeavoring to secure their
                    acceptance by other parties, more especially by the Republican Party.15
            
            Party names meant little to Thompson during this period of his life. It was principles that really
                    counted with him. He would "unite with any set of men or party," he declared in a
                    speech at 
                        Greencastle
                     in September, 1857, "by whatever name, who would strive to bring back the
                    government to the good old way that would relieve it from its present downward and deplorable
                    condition and administer it in such a way to secure the constitutional rights of all
                        sections."16
            
            Early in 1858, Colonel Thompson took occasion to restate his own views and those of the American
                    Party on the all-absorbing question of the hour, slavery. His article appeared in the Daily Union of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and was reprinted in other newspapers. He was looking for a party which would consider
                    itself as having a higher mission than to excite hatred between the North and the South and would
                    invoke the spirit of concord, harmony, and good neighborliness in all intercourse between the two
                    sections. "We shall let slavery alone ourselves," he declared, "and
                    persuade others to do so still. We shall leave the states where slavery exists to do with it just as
                    they please, and to enjoy all the rights given by the Constitution. We shall leave the people of a
                    territory to form their own institutions and to have slavery or not as they please when they make a
                    constitution for admission into the Union." He was not in favor of popular sovereignty as
                    championed by Douglas, who maintained the right of the territorial legislatures either to establish
                    or exclude slavery. This meant continual agitation and he was opposed to it. "We shall
                    refuse to interfere with slavery in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    ," he added. "We shall insist upon the faithful execution of the
                    Fugitive Slave Laws. Thus it will be our policy to take the question altogether out of Congress and
                    out of political contests—in other words to let it alone."17
            
            
               
                  15 C. F. Brand "The History of the Know Nothing Party in
                        Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, pp. 286, 287,
                        294-302.
               
                  16 Speech at 
                            Greencastle
                        , The Daily Union, September 25, 1857.
               
                  17Sentinel (
                            Indianapolis
                        ) April 29, 1858.
            
            
            Thompson's name, together with that of Henry S. Lane, was suggested as a joint candidate of
                    Republicans, Americans, and Anti-Lecompton Democrats for the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1858. The two Democratic Senators, Jesse D. Bright and Graham N. Fitch,
                    chosen by the preceding legislature, were regarded by the opposition as having been
                    unconstitutionally elected. Concerning Thompson and the sen-atorship Lane wrote: "I have no
                    doubt that Col. Thompson would be very acceptable to the Americans and Anti-Lecompton Democrats, but
                    as to the Republicans I could not now say, having had no consultation with any of them on this
                    subject…. I have always regarded Col. Thompson as a gentleman of very fine talents, the
                    most captivating manners, and great amiability of character; and I should consider his election to
                    one of the senatorships as eminently proper…. We have always been friendly and if I am to
                    be one of the senators and our friends so determine, it would give me great pleasure to have Col.
                    Thompson for a colleague…. I should rejoice to see our platform so constructed as to
                    embrace all the old Whigs if it can be done without any sacrifice of principle, and I have no doubt
                    it can be."18 Lane and William M. McCarty, the latter an Anti-Lecompton
                    Democrat, were elected 
                        United States
                     Senators by the Indiana Legislature, but the Senate finally decided the contest in
                    favor of Bright and Fitch.
            The attempt to organize a strong conservative, nationwide party opposed to the agitation of the
                    slavery question was rendered more difficult by the events of Buchanan's administration.
                    The Dred Scott decision, the Lecompton struggle, John Brown's raid, and other exciting
                    incidents served only to increase the sectional strife. The American Party itself was disrupted by
                    the slavery issue. Many of its members in the north found their way into the Republican Party before
                    1860. Some of the more conservative members of the party made one more effort to form a conservative
                    party. The new party was given the name of the Constitutional Union Party.
            The initiative in the formation of this party was taken in 
                        Washington
                     near the close of the year 1859. Senator John J. Crittenden was the leader. Crittenden
                    was well qualified for the task. A native of the border state of 
                        Kentucky
                    , a conservative 
                  
                     18 Henry S. Lane to W. K. Edwards, November 2, 1858. Lane
                        Papers.
               
                     by nature, he was actuated by a sincere love for the Union. He
                    was not a seeker after office. As 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Kentucky
                    , he had opposed the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     compromise, believing that it would be productive of serious agitations and
                    disturbances. He had likewise opposed the Lecompton Constitution. He was against all agitation of
                    the slavery question. "I am a true son of the South," he declared in 1859,
                    "may prosperity fill all her borders and sunshine rest upon her head—but for all
                    this I do not love the Union less. I claim this whole country as my country. For the preservation of
                    that Union, which makes it so, I am ready to devote my life."19
            
            A meeting of fifty men was held in 
                        Washington
                     on December 19, 1895, to take counsel on the state of political affairs. Senator
                    Crittenden presided. A committee of seven was appointed to confer with the Central Committee of
                    Whigs and Americans.20 A few days later the National Central Committee of
                    Americans convened in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and appointed a committee to confer with the one appointed at the 
                        Washington
                     meeting. At a subsequent meeting of these committees in 
                        Washington
                     it was decided that steps be taken to organize a Constitutional Union Party. A Central
                    Executive Committee was appointed to take charge of the work of organization and to prepare an
                    address to the people. Richard W. Thompson was named as one of the members of this committee. An
                    address was prepared and issued on February 22, 1860, signed by thirty men including John J.
                    Crittenden, chairman, W. C. Rives of 
                  Virginia,
                            Washington
                Hunt of 
                        New York
                    , W. A. Graham of 
                        North Carolina
                    , and Richard W. Thompson of Indiana.
            The address was directed to various elements: the old Whig strength, large numbers of the old
                    Democratic Party, the American Party, those quiet unobtrusive citizens who always shunned turmoil,
                    and those people who desired to unite with the only party which held out to the country a prospect
                    of repose. The object of the party was "to remove the subject of slavery from the arena of
                    party politics and to leave it to the independent control of the states in which it exists and to
                    the unbiased action of the judiciary." A national convention 
                  
                     19 Mrs. Champman Coleman, The Life of John J.
                            Crittenden (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1873), 11, pp. 61, 62, 120, 146.
                  
                     20
                            National Intelligencer, December 22. 1859.
               
                     was recommended to be held at 
                        Baltimore
                     for the purpose of nominating a candidate for the presidency.21
            
            Here was a movement to organize another nation-wide conservative party, a party which frowned upon
                    every form of sectionalism and had regard for the rights and interests of every portion of the
                    Union. The numerous letters received by Senator Crittenden from all parts of the country indicate
                    that the party made a wide appeal.22
            
            Thompson believed that if the party should hold its national convention before the meeting of the
                    Republican convention at 
                        Chicago
                     and nominate Crittenden, Bates, Bell, or some other such man, that the Republicans
                    might be forced to accept the same candidate or take the responsibility of contributing to
                    Democratic success.23
            
            While he was in 
                        Washington
                     attending the meeting of the Central Executive Committee, Thompson wrote to A. H.
                    Davidson, who had been state chairman of the executive committee of the American Party in Indiana,
                    urging that immediate steps be taken to call together a convention in the state to appoint delegates
                    to the national convention.24 In harmony with suggestion, Davidson called a
                    meeting of the general committee of the Constitutional Union Party to be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on April 12, 1860. This meeting named Thompson as one of the delegates to the national
                    convention of the party.
            The national convention of the Constitutional Union Party assembled at 
                        Baltimore
                     on May 9, 1860, the week previous to the meeting of the Republican convention in 
                        Chicago
                    . The Democratic convention had already met at 
                        Charleston
                     and had adjourned under distressing circumstances. The party was hopelessly divided and
                    had found it impossible to agree upon a platform or a candidate.
            The Constitutional Union Convention met in the old First Presbyterian Church which had been recently
                    purchased by the National Government for a Federal building site. A full length portrait of 
                        Washington
                     hung on the wall behind the president's chair. The galleries were festooned
                    with red, white and blue bunting. The attendance was larger than was 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., February 25, 1860.
                  
                     22 Crittenden Correspondence, December, 1869, to May, 1860 (mss.).
                  
                     23 Thompson to [correspondent unknown], January 24, 1860. Thompson
                            mss.
                  
                     24 Thompson to A. H. Davidson. February 20, 1860.
               
                     expected. Delegates were present from every state in the Union.
                    The hotels were full and the narrow 
                        Baltimore
                     streets were scarcely able to contain the crowds. "Everybody is eminently
                    respectable, intensely virtuous, devotedly patriotic, and fully resolved to save the
                    country," wrote Murat Halstead. "There are many distinguished men on the floor but
                    they are mostly venerable men who have come down to us from a former generation of
                        politicians."25
            
            The convention was called to order by Senator Crittenden, chairman of the executive committee of the
                    party. Richard W. Thompson was named as one of the vice-presidents of the convention. 
                        Washington
                     Hunt, former governor of 
                        New York
                    , was chosen permanent chairman.
            A bit of humor was injected into the proceedings by a Mr. Coombs of 
                        Kentucky
                     who proposed three platforms. The first one was for the "harmonious
                    Democracy" which had lately agreed together beautifully at 
                        Charleston
                    . For this platform he suggested the 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions followed by two planks, one in favor of excluding slavery from the
                    territories, and the other in favor of forcing it in, both to be adopted unanimously by the
                    convention. The second platform was for the "irrepressible conflict gentlemen"
                    about to assemble at 
                        Chicago
                    . For them he suggested the blue laws of 
                        Connecticut
                     with two slight modifications, the first in reference to the right of a man to kiss his
                    wife on Sunday and the second in reference to burning witches. For the Constitutional Union
                    Convention now in session he proposed a platform declaring in favor of "the constitution as
                    it is and the Union under it now and forever."26
            
            Great unanimity prevailed throughout the proceedings of the convention. A brief declaration of
                    principles was adopted favoring "the Constitution of the country, the union of the states,
                    and the enforcement of the laws." Ten persons received votes for the nomination for
                    president on the first ballot. The five highest on the list in the order named were John Bell of 
                        Tennessee
                    , Samuel 
                        Houston
                     of 
                        Texas
                    , John J. Crittenden of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Edward Everett of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and John McLean of 
                        Ohio
                    . The thirteen votes of Indiana were given to McLean on this ballot. Bell was nominated
                    on the second ballot. 
                  
                     25 Murat Halstead, A History of National Political
                                Conventions of 1860 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1860), pp. 106. 112.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., p. 108.
               
                     He had served as speaker of the national House of
                    Representatives, as Secretary of War under President Harrison and during the first part of
                    Tyler's administration, and as 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Tennessee
                    . During his twelve years in the Senate he had exhibited great courage, putting
                    principles above political expendiency. He had opposed the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and voted against the Lecompton Constitution for which he was subjected to
                    widespread criticism in his own state.27 Bell and Crittenden were the last of
                    the Southern Whigs in Congress.28
            
            The name of Edward Everett of 
                        Massachusetts
                     was placed before the convention for vice-president. Richard W. Thompson moved that the
                    nomination be made unanimous and the motion was carried.29 Everett was a scholar
                    and orator of great prominence. He had served in turn as professor of Greek Literature at 
                        Harvard
                     and editor of the North American Review, member of the House of
                    Representatives, Governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Minister to Great Britain, President of 
                        Harvard
                    , Secretary of State, and 
                        United States
                     Senator. A sense of public duty and the earnest appeals of his friends led him to
                    accept the nomination for vice-president which he did not desire.30
            
            The National Intelligencer found nothing in the proclamation made by the
                    Constitutional Union Party to which Whigs could not yield hearty and entire concurrence. The paper
                    argued that the ends proposed by the Republican Party had already been attained. The 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line had virtually been restored. It had been achieved by means against
                    which the Republicans had protested. The things for which the old parties contended had become mere
                    political abstractions. It was useless to struggle for ends that had already been attained and to
                    oppose things which could not be helped. The highest need of the country was domestic peace and this
                    was what the Constitutional Union Party sought to give.31
            
            The action of the national Republican convention was more moderate than had been anticipated. The
                    platform, as one 
                  
                     27 John W. Caldwell, "John Bell of 
                                Tennessee
                            ." in American Historical Review, IV, pp. 662-684.
                  
                     28
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, May 18, 1860.
                  
                     29 Halstead, Conventions of 1860, p. 119.
                  
                     30Paul Revere Frothington, Edward Everett, Orator and
                                Statesman (
                                Boston
                            , 19261, pp. 400-412.
                  
                     31
                            National Intelligence, Map 12. 1880.
               
                     of the members of the Constitutional Union Party expressed it,
                    was quite a come-down from 1856—no more cant connecting slavery and polygamy as the
                    "twin relics of barbarism." The desire to win the old Know Nothing and
                    conservative Whig vote in Indiana and thus assure Republican success there had been one of the main
                    pleas of Henry S. Lane and other leaders in favor of Lincoln's nomination at 
                        Chicago
                    . There is no doubt that the Indiana delegates played a very important, if not a
                    determining part, in bringing about this nomination. The hopes of these leaders were to a large
                    extent realized. Lincoln was considered so much more acceptable than Sward that many who had
                    refrained from affiliating with the Republican Party now went over to it. The chief problem in the
                    state for the Constitutional Unionists was to prevent the utter disintegration of their party.32
            
            The Indiana State Convention of the Constitutional Union Party was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 15. One hundred fifty delegates were present, most of them from the southern
                    portion of the state. The greater number were men who were not generally known. They were referred
                    to by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal as "quiet estimable men."
            Colonel Thompson was one of the most prominent leaders in this convention. There was a rumor that he
                    was about to abandon the party. This arose because he had expressed confidence in Lincoln as a
                    conservative leader. Thompson emphatically denied that he intended to desert the party. He did
                    request that he should not be named as an elector on the Constitutional Union ticket on account of
                    business affairs which might take him out of the country. He was reluctantly excused from this
                    service. No state ticket was nominated.33
            
            A few days after the adjournment of the convention, Thompson delivered an address in 
                        Terre Haute
                     on the political issues of the day which for candor and frankness probably had few
                    equals in that epoch-making campaign. The speech, which was four hours in length, was heard with
                    profound attention. The speaker declared that Douglas, the candidate of the Northern Democrats, and
                    Breckinridge, the candidate of the Southern Democrats, were both sectional candidates. The
                    convention which nominated Mr. Lincoln was largely a 
                  
                     32 Charles Roll, "Indiana's Part in the Nomination
                            of Abraham Lincoln for President in 1860," in Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXV. pp. 1-13: W. K. Edwards to B. W. Thompson, June 4, 1860. Thompson
                            mas.
                  
                     33
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, August 16, 1860.
               
                     sectional one. The 
                        Baltimore
                     convention which nominated John Bell had representatives from every state in the Union,
                    being more national than either of the others. It was the only National Convention. The Republican
                    Party contained many radicals but Mr. Lincoln he believed to be a conservative on the slavery
                    question. Lincoln held that slavery was legal in the states where it then existed and was entitled
                    to protection there; that Congress had no right to abolish slavery in the District of 
                        Columbia
                     without the consent of the owners, that the people of a state when they did come to
                    form their constitution were entitled to the right to decide whether the state should be slave or
                    free. Thompson maintained that Lincoln was chiefly indebted for his nomination to the conservatism
                    of Indiana Republicans. He admitted that he was gratified with the success of the conservative
                    element among the Republicans.
            Referring to the convention that nominated Bell, Thompson said; "I believe there were never
                    assembled in the 
                        United States
                     a body of men who for wisdom, calmness, disinterestedness, and sincerity, were their
                    superiors, unless it was some of those early assemblies of our forefathers who were without
                    equals." He had favored the nomination of Justice McLean who was an old Whig, a
                    conservative man, and one upon whom the Amreican, the Whig, and the Republican parties might have
                    united. The convention, however, had nominated Mr. Bell, who was known to the country as "a
                    conservative upright, and honest man, and an eminent statesman."
            "I wish," continued Thompson, "that all the people of the North and the
                    Union men of the South could look upon this thing as I do and see the necessity of uniting upon some
                    man for president, who, like Mr. Bell, stands upon a platform not sectional and not ultra, and who
                    would do his duty with an eye single to the welfare and honor of the whole nation." He saw
                    little prospect of this taking place. He did not believe that any candidate could command a majority
                    of the electors unless it should be Lincoln whose chances were increasing.
            "If Mr. Lincoln is elected to the presidency," Thompson added, "he will be
                    entitled to the respect of every man in the 
                        United States
                    . His strength consists of his conservatism. His own principles we conservative. I know
                    him well. I served in Congress with him. I was upon very intimate terms with  him, and I know just how he felt about this question of slavery. During
                    the time we were there, with few exceptions, we voted together always."
            Referring to the wants of the South the speaker declared: "They want the fugitive slave law
                    executed. Mr. Lincoln says that it shall be executed. They want the right of the territories
                    recognized to come into the Union as slave states. Mr. Lincoln says it shall be recognized. They
                    want the rights of all the states preserved. Mr. Lincoln says they shall be preserved. He differs
                    with them on the question of the Wilmot Proviso. Lincoln says it should be passed to prohibit
                    slavery in the territories. But there cannot be any Wilmot Proviso during Lincoln's term,
                    if he is elected, because the Democrats will have a majority of the Senate until 1865 and they can
                    prevent the passage of such a measure."34
            
            The speech throughout was the sincere utterance of a lover of the Union. His early associations with
                    the fathers of the Republic and with the great Whig leaders of the middle period of our history had
                    so profoundly influenced him that he could not be otherwise. With Webster he might have said,
                    "I speak today for the preservation of the Union."
            Though Thompson did not support Lincoln in 1860, he was not unfriendly toward hiin as the speech
                    quoted above clearly indicates. The two men understood one another. They corresponded during the
                    campaign. In a letter from Lincoln dated July 10 and marked "private" reference is
                    made to a letter received from Thompson on July 6. Then Lincoln adds: "I wish you would
                    watch 
                        Chicago
                     a little. They are getting up a movement for the 17th inst. I believe a line from you
                    to John Wilson, late of the General Land Office, would fix the matter…. You will hear
                    from me again."35 A few days later Lincoln dispatched his private
                    secretary, Nicolay, to 
                        Terre Haute
                     to confer with Thompson. The messenger bore this letter: "This introduces my
                    friend J. G. Nicolay. Converse as freely with him as you would with me."36
            
            Thompson explained that Lincoln believed that if the Constitutional Union Party should disband many
                    of the Whigs affiliated with that party would go into the Democratic Party. This might result in the
                    loss of Indiana by Lincoln. Hence he 
                  
                     34
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, August 22, 1860.
                  
                     35 Lincoln to Thompson, July 16, 1860. Thompson mas.
                  
                     36 Lincoln to Thompson, July 16, 1860. Ibid.
                  
               
                     thought Thompson could be of great service to him by making a
                    vigorous Whig or Constitutional Union campaign in the state.37
            
            That Lincoln appreciated the course which Thompson was following is indicated by the following letter
                    written a few days before the election: 
                  
                     
                        Your very acceptable letter of the 20th sent by Express, was received only yesterday.
                                    I am indeed grateful for your generous course towards me so far; and I doubt not
                                    what you are doing, and will do, to the end of the contest is, and will be, the most
                                    judicious—
                        Your suggestions are all worthy of consideration, and shall receive it—The
                                    eyes of some of our best sentinels are already upon that matter of forged
                                    naturalization papers to be issued as from your court; and, if possible, the use of
                                    such papers will be prevented—38
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Colonel Thompson had always been friendly toward Henry S. Lane the Republican candidate for governor
                    of Indiana in 1860, and now supported him in his campaign for the governorship. Early in September
                    Lane wrote to Thompson asking for his aid. The friends of Bell and Everett in the state were being
                    urged by various persons in 
                        Kentucky
                     to support the Democratic state ticket at the October election in order that the state
                    might be carried by Douglas. This was very disturbing to Lane, who counted upon the support of the
                    Constitutional Unionists. "Now in the present position of our canvass," wrote
                    Lane, "if you can consistently with your sense of duty say a word in favor of our ticket in
                    public you will in my opinion confer a very great favor on the country and a personal obligation on
                    myself never to be forgotten."39
            
            On the eve of the state election in October, Thompson seized the opportunity to speak out strongly
                    for Lane in a statement addressed "To the conservative men of Indiana." It was
                    written on the cars while traveling from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. It was referred to in this paper editorially as "one of the most
                    masterly documents of this campaign."
            The statement was in the nature of a reply to an address emanating from certain groups in 
                        Kentucky
                     advising conservative men in Indiana to support the Democratic ticket. They 
                  
                     37 David W. Henry, "Richard W. Thompson."
                            Unpublished sketch.
                  
                     38 Lincoln to Thompson, October 28, 1860. Barrett Collection (Courtesy
                            of Oliver R. Barrett).
                  
                     39 Lane to Thompson, September 3, 1860. Lane Papers.
               
                     had said that it was a matter of small importance who should be
                    chosen as governor, but Thompson thought not. "One of the great evils of the
                    time," he declared, "is that attention to national politics has destroyed the
                    dignity and lessened the importance of state governments. We should be greatly better off if we
                    looked less to the Federal government and more to the states."
            He was against giving way to disunionists in the South because of the possibility that they would
                    break up the Union if Lincoln were elected. Thompson declared that Breckenridge was nominated by a
                    convention as sectional as the one at 
                        Chicago
                    . "Our true position," he continued, "is midway between the
                    extreme parties. We should repudiate sectionalism at both extremes. We are bound to frown upon every
                    attempt at secession…. If our party shall prevail, I desire to see it do so by virtue of
                    its principles and not by becoming the all of Democracy…. If its principles are worth
                    anything they are worth maintaining through good and evil report. I helped to nominate Mr. Bell and
                    shall vote for him and nobody else."
            Concerning the state situation, Thompson said: "We do gain something by Lane's
                    election and therefore I shall vote for him. He is an old Whig educated in the faith taught by Henry
                    Clay. He and I have fought so many Whig battles together that I think I know all the impulses and
                    inclinations of his mind."
            If Lincoln should be elected, he felt confident that the present status of slavery could not be
                    changed during the next four years. There was no necessity for a Wilmot Proviso. Nobody supposed it
                    possible for slavery to go to 
                        Pike
                    's Peak. "Stand our ground firmly," he concluded,
                    "and eschew all alliances with either party. Let either come to us without bargain or
                    barter, and thus let the world see that the integrity of our motives and the conservatism of our
                    principles have been vindicated."40
            
            In the October election in Indiana most of the old Americans followed Thompson's advice and
                    voted for Lane for governor. He was successful. His vote in 1860 in those counties which had cast a
                    large vote for the Know-Kothing Party in 
                  
                     40
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, October 6, 1860.
               
                     1856 was about equal to the combined vote for Freemont and
                    Fillmore of that year.41
            
            Thompson's prediction concerning the outcome of the national election proved correct with
                    reference to the Constitutional Union Party. The party polled 588,879 votes in the nation and
                    carried 
                  Virginia, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                    . The vote for Bell in Indiana amounted to only 5, 306, about one fourth that received
                    by Fillmore in 1856. The greater part of the Know-Nothing vote in Indiana apparently went to
                    Lincoln. The Republican Party carried Indiana as well as the other states of the Old Northwest. The
                    more conservative men in the North who supported the Constitutional Union ticket in 1860 were now to
                    follow into the Republican ranks. Richard W. Thompson was one of these men.
            The attempt to form a strong national conservative party had failed. Yet it was worth the effort. Of
                    the sincerity of the leaders of the movement there can be no question. They had no selfish ends to
                    serve. Had they succeeded the terrible war might have been averted.
            With the old Union about to be broken into fragments, Thompson proposed a plan whereby a portion of
                    it might be saved. Two days after 
                        South Carolina
                     adopted her ordinance of secession, he wrote to Governor John Letcher of 
                        Virginia
                     concerning the formation of a closer union of the central belt of states and
                    territories extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Disclaiming any originality for the plan,
                    Thompson declared that he had long cherished the hope that some such arrangement might be
                    accomplished. He had been selected to lay the plan before the proper authorities.
            In the event of dissolution, he believed they would have no difficulty in forming a satisfactory
                    union, leaving the extreme north to indulge in its vagaries alone, and the extreme south to develop
                    its capacity and resources in its own way. He thought that Norfolk, 
                        Virginia
                    , might replace 
                        New York
                     as a commercial port. Railroads should be developed to the westward. The present and
                    prospective system of railroads in the state already pointed to the great northwest and must soon
                    become an important part of the immense network of roads which now reached the 
                        Kansas
                     border and would soon be extended to the Pacific. New steamship lines should be 
                  
                     41 Brand, "Know Nothing Party in Indiana", p.
                        304.
               
                     established across the Atlantic in this manner opening a direct
                    trade with Europe. 
                        Virginia
                     would thus become the central and controlling power in this central belt of states. As
                    one of her sons whose love for her had never abated he would rejoice to see her assert and maintain
                    this proud position.42
            
            
               Such was the interesting proposal for a central union made up OP
                    border slaveholding states and non-slaveholding states, with 
                        Virginia
                     occupying a strategic position. It was too late for the success of any such plan,
                    doubtful enough had it been proposed earlier. Already a new nation had come into being. Railroad
                    trunk lines which had been in the process of development for a decade now bound together the
                    Northwest and the Northeast.
            No one had tried harder than Thompson during the ten years before the Civil War to prevent the great
                    catastrophe. But the war came. There was no hesitancy upon his part as to what course to follow.
                    Though he loved the South and his native state of 
                        Virginia
                    , he loved the Union more. The four years of the war were the busiest of his long life.
                    In 1862 he was appointed by Governor Oliver P. Morton as commandant of Camp Dick Thompson at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In 1863 he was appointed by President Lincoln to the post of Provost Marshal.
            The ten years following the Civil War were spent by Colonel Thompson in the comparative quiet of his
                    country home at Spring Hill. Here he devoted much time to reading and literary
                    pursuits. His interest in politics remained as keen as ever. He became a familiar figure in the
                    state and national conventions of the Republican Party. In 1868, as chairman of the committee on
                    resolutions, he wrote the national platform of the Republican Party. In 1877 Thompson became
                    Secretary of the Navy in the Cabinet of President Hayes, a cabinet noted for the ability of its
                    members. The navy was at that time weak but Thompson introduced many reforms which paved the way for
                    the development of the New Navy in later years.
            In 1880 Thompson was appointed chairman of the American Committee of the French Panama Canal Company,
                    a position which he held until 1889. The company became involved in financial difficulties which
                    called forth a congressional investigation. 
                  
                     42 Thompson to Hon. John Letcher. December 22, 1860. Thompson
                        mas.
               
                     Colonel Thompson was exonerated of any connection with or
                    knowledge of corruption.
            The closing years of Thompson's life were spent in retirement at his home in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . It was aptly said of him that "He was the stately, polished, courteous,
                    easy-going gentleman, genial, loveable, high-minded, that might stand as a type of the olden time,
                    as he might in his appearanoe, with his well marked features, his eyes flashing, yet soft and
                    kindly, and his crown of silver hair." Though eighty-seven years of age he attended the
                    Republican National Convention at 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1896 where he served as chairman of the Indiana delegation and cast his ballot for
                    William McKinley. Colonel Thompson had met all of the presidents of the 
                        United States
                     save the first two and was personally acquainted with most of them. He died on February
                    9, 1900.
         
         
         
            Stephen S. Harding: A Hoosier Abolitionist
            BY ETTA REEVES FRENCH
            
            In 1808, the very year set aside two decades before by the framers of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     in which to allow Congress to prohibit the foreign slave trade, there was born in
                    Palmyra, 
                        New York
                    , Stephen S. Harding who was to become a leader in the abolition movement. In
                    Harding's natal year, Congress promptly forbade further importation of slaves into the 
                        United States
                     in the hope, perhaps somewhat feeble, that by the enactment of this law slavery would
                    cease to be a wedge splitting the nation into two hostile camps.1
            
            During the next two decades, as Harding was growing to maturity in southeastern Indiana, slavery,
                    instead of subsiding, continued to spread until the domestic slave system had firmly intrenched
                    itself in the economic life of the southern States. It was near the close of these two decades, or
                    in the fall of 1828, that young Harding dedicated his life to the abolition of domestic slavery in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . Not only did he abhor slavery but believed it to be unconstitutional.
            Reared in 
                        Ripley county
                    , Indiana, a small backward community, which was inhabited largely by emigrants from
                    slaveholding states,2 Harding, as soon as he reached manhood, began a fight in
                    this settlement, which was somewhat favorable to slavery, for abolition in the South. So successful
                    were his efforts that later, he was twice named as candidate for lieutenant governor of Indiana on
                    the Liberty Party ticket.3
            
            Young Harding was one of thirteen children who accompanied their parents, David and Abigail Harding,
                    to Indiana in 1820.4 Coming into an undeveloped country at the impressionable
                    age of twelve, Stephen Harding early learned to shift for himself.5 He began
                    teaching school in his community in 
                  
                     1 The Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , article I, section 9: "The Migration or Importation of such Persons
                            as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by
                            the Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred eight, but a Tax or duty may be
                            jmposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person,…
                  
                     2 Julia Henderson Levering, Historic Indiana,
                            283-284. Also Henry Wilson, History of the Rise and Fall of the Slavs Power in
                                America, 11, 62.
                  
                     3
                            American Biographical Historic of Eminent and Self Made Me% of the State of
                                Indiana, (4th Gong. Dist.), I, 79. See also pp. 22-24. The campaigns were 1843 and
                            1846.
                  
                     4 Harding mss. at Milan, Indiana, May 10, 1875.
                  
                            5
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        Ripley county
                     at the age of sixteen, although he had then had but nine months formal school training
                        himself.6 The first formal public address given by the young schoolmaster,
                    who later was to become one of the outstanding orators in the abolition cause in Indiana, was
                    delivered at a local Independence Day celebration in his seventeenth year. Eager to learn and
                    advance, Harding studied law, being admitted to the bar at the age of twenty.
            Harding began the practice of law at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, where he was forced to compete with such prominent attorneys as John Test, 
                        United States
                     Senator James Noble, and Oliver H. Smith who later became a 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana.7 His legal abilities were not recognized at
                    this place, where he was not known, and he left within six months.8 His idle
                    hours in his 
                        Richmond
                     office, Harding said, were spent in the study of Shakespeare and the Roman and Greek
                        classics.9 He became well versed in the classic literature, and this
                    knowledge ever after influenced his style of speaking and writing.
            There is no record that Harding held any decided opinion on the question of slavery until he came in
                    actual contact with the institution in the South.10 This contact came in the
                    fall of 1828, when but twenty years of age he made a trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     by steamboat.11 He had two purposes in making this trip. He went to
                    assume charge of the personal property of a client in 
                        New Orleans
                    , and also to look about with a view of establishing himself in the practice of law
                    somewhere in the South.12
            
            Abandoning his office in 
                        Richmond
                    , Harding set out for the South, carrying with him letters of introduction from John
                    Test, then a prominent Indiana lawyer, to Governor Miller of 
                        Arkansas
                    , and from Oliver H. Smith to the Hon. Henry H. Gurley, then a representative in
                    Congress from 
                        Louisiana
                    .13 There were also letters of introduction from General James 
                  
                     6Interview between Harding and Judge O. F. Roberts, Dec. 13, 1883,
                            printed in the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Press, Dec. 13, 1883.
                  
                     7 William W. Woolen, Biographical and Historical Sketches
                                of Early Indiana, 178. Also Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                                Sketches, 11.
                  
                     8 John B. Rebuck, "Biography of Stephen S. Harding",
                            read before the 
                                Ripley county
                             (Indiana) Bar Association.
                  
                            9
                            bid.
                        
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     11 Harding mss., undated.
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     13The originals of the letters of introduction are among
                            Harding's papers at Milan, Indiana.
               
                     Noble addressed to Senator Cobb, of 
                        Georgia
                    , and Ambrose Sevier, then a delegate in Congress from the territory of 
                        Arkansas
                    , and from the Governor of Indiana to the Governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    .14
            
            Harding, upon arrival at 
                        New Orleans
                    , presented himself to the Governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , who received him courteously and invited him to visit his plantation. Several days
                    elapsed before Harding could turn his attention to the business of his Indiana client. Meanwhile his
                    spare time was spent in sightseeing, the most impressive sight, to this young man of twenty, being
                    the slave markets of 
                        New Orleans
                    . This was his first direct contact with slavery at its worst, and in recounting this
                    experience later, he said: 
                        I confess much as I had heard of the horrors of the domestic slave trade, I witnessed scenes
                            on these various occasions that are not fit to be named amongst Christians. And yet the
                            buyers and sellers in these human shambles could be found, some of them, oftentimes at a
                            Christian Church! With sanctimonious faces and prayer books in hands! No wonder that on that
                            occasion I should mentally quote the words of the author of American Independence,
                            "I tremble for my country when I consider that God is just, and that His justice
                            will not sleep forever."15
                  
                    
            
            It is an interesting coincidence that Harding and Abraham Lincoln saw 
                        Louisiana
                     and the slave markets of 
                        New Orleans
                     for the first time in the same year (1828), though there is no evidence that Harding
                    made the acquaintance of Lincoln on this trip.
            Harding returned home after eight months in 
                        New Orleans
                    , working his way back on the Mississippi River as clerk on the
                    steamboat "Belvedere". The impressions of slavery which he acquired during his
                    brief sojourn in the South made of him an ardent anti-slavery man, and caused him to assume a
                    belligerent attitude toward the institution.16 The anti-slavery movement had not
                    yet affected his home community17 which as already stated was made up largely of
                    folk from south of the 
                        Ohio River
                    .18
            
            Unable to subdue the wanderlust of youth, Harding left 
                  
                     14
                            American Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Ma of the State of
                                Indiana (4th Cons Dist.), I, 77.
                  
                            15
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     16 Rebuck, "Biography of Harding."
                  
                     17 Albert B. Hart, Slavery and Abolition, 194.
                  
                     18 W. H. Smith, A. Political History of Slavery. I,
                            12-13: Wilson, Rise and Fall of the
                            Slave Power in America, 11, 184-186.
               
                     shortly after his return from the South for an extensive trip
                    to the East, spending a part of the time among relatives at his former home in Palmyra, 
                        New York
                    .19 While in Palmyra, he met Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, in
                    whose home he was a guest over night and heard read the first four chapters of the Book of Mormon
                    which was at that very time in the process of being published in a Palmyra printing shop.20 Smith tried to prevail upon Harding to remain in Palmyra until the Book of
                    Mormon was completed after which Harding would be sent to 
                        London
                     as a missionary for the newly created Mormon church. This opportunity was rejected.
                    Just what influence this trip to the East had on Harding with respect to slavery is not known. Only
                    this is known, that, being widely traveled for a youth of his backward Indiana community, Harding at
                    once stood out among his neighbors as a leader.
            He began in 1830 to follow closely the trend of the slavery controversy. He subscribed to a number of
                    anti-slavery periodicals as well as other journals of his day. Almost from their first issue Harding
                    received the True American, published at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , by
                    Cassius M. Clay, and the Philanthropist, published at 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , 1836-1847, by Gamaliel Bailey, Jr. From these papers he drew while yet a
                    young man ideas on universal liberty, gradual emancipation, and the elevation of labor morally and
                    politically. After 1840 Harding reached out beyond his own state and neighboring states for his
                    ideas, supporting such anti-slavery publications as the Liberator, William Lloyd
                    Garrison's publication, and the National Era, published by Dr. Gamaliel
                    Bailey. There is every evidence that Harding, because of his impetuous nature might have been as
                    radical as Garrison had he been reached by the Garrisonian literature soon after his return from 
                        New Orleans
                     when he was but twenty years old. But, as the following letter from Harding to Garrison
                    printed on the front page of the Liberator of April 7, 1843, will show, the
                    attention of Harding was not attracted to Garrison's paper before March, 1843.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sir—
                        Some person (unknown to me) has been kind enough to send to this office a copy or two
                                    of your paper. From a candid reading of the same, I am induced to send my name to
                                    you as a subscriber. You 
                              
                                 19 Herding mss., undated.
                              
                                 20 Pomeroy Tucker, Origin, Rise, and
                                                Progress of Mormonism, p. 284; Also, Herding ms., undated.
                           
                                     will please forward me one copy for a
                                    year…. You may, if you think proper, enclose me a Prospectus for the
                                    Liberator. I will try and see if I can procure some subscribers from this vicinity.
                                    We, in the Far West, are beginning to feel the vast importance attached to this
                                    question of slavery, and all admit that the question, however
                                    ‘exciting’ and ‘delicate’ it may be,
                                    cannot longer be stove off. The signs of the time are truly portentous as it regards
                                    this question; and that the American people should have tamely submitted to the
                                    ‘overseership’ which has heretofore been resorted to by the
                                    interested ‘clique’, in order to stifle the groans of millions
                                    in this ‘land of liberty’, is as astonishing to the reflecting
                                    man, as its tendency is alarming to the lover of his country. A week since, I
                                    learned the fate of the GREAT PETITION from your State, and noted especially the
                                    dignified epithets which a few slaveholding and soul-buying ruffians applied to it,
                                    and to that ‘wonderful man’ who had the honor of trying to
                                    present it. I have asked myself, what will the descendents of the Pilgrims say of
                                    the epithets, ‘nigger’, ‘slaves’,
                                    ‘runaway slaves’, ‘smut machine’,
                                    &c, &c. as applied to their Petition, bearing the humble requests of
                                    62, 000 of her ‘free sons and daughters’. Well, we shall see
                                    what we shall see.
                     
                  
               
                
            Harding hearkened to the published opinions of prominent men on the subject of slavery and discovered
                    that even in the South abolition sentiment had been tolerated. Slaveholders and free farmers not
                    infrequently admitted that slavery was an evil.21 In an old leather law account
                    book, Harding pasted numerous newspaper clippings giving accounts of speeches on the slavery
                    question made by prominent southerners of Jackson's day.22 Undoubtedly
                    these discussions influenced Harding to throw himself into the fight against slavery and helped him
                    to express in words some of the impressions of slavery which he had so recently formed during his
                    brief stay in the South. Among these was a part of a speech delivered by Hon. Charles James Faulkner
                    in the 
                        Virginia
                     House of Delegates, January 20, 1832, on "The Policy of the State with Respect
                    to Her Slave Population"; a fragment of a speech by Thomas Jefferson Randolph,
                    Jefferson's grandson, who introduced the subject of 
                        Virginia
                    's slave population to the 
                        Virginia
                     Legislature of 1831-32;23 editorials of John Hampden Pleasants,
                    then the editor of the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Whig; and many other editorial opinions from other influential papers of 
                        Virginia
                    . From 1829 until 1832, the negro question was in the fore in 
                  
                     21 Smith, A Political History of Slavery, I, 8:
                            also, A. B. Hart, Slavery and Abolition, 176-177.
                  
                     22 This law account book is among Harding's papers in the
                            Harding home at Milan, Indiana.
                  
                     23 Smith, A Political History of Slavery, I,
                        3.
               
                    
                    
                        Virginia
                    , and the attention of anti-slavery men of the North was naturally attracted to these
                    discussions.
            Determined that slavery was wrong and should be abolished, Harding flung himself into the abolition
                    movement with full force. His line of reasoning was simple, since to him slavery was wrong and a
                    wrong should be righted. It might have been, and probably was, "a gloomy time for the
                    little band of people who believed that slavery was poisonous to the south, hurtful to the north,
                    and dangerous to the Union."24
            
            Harding was especially qualified to be a leader in the abolition movement to which he dedicated
                    himself from 1830 forward, He was an omnivorous reader and an eloquent and utterly fearless speaker,
                    He possessed a deep, resounding voice and convincing manner of address.25 He
                    believed firmly in the cause of abolition and fearlessly espoused this cause in southern Indiana at
                    this early day when four-fifths of the people were in sympathy with slavery.26
                    The greater portion of the inhabitants, having moved to southern Indiana from slaveholding states,
                    had been reared to regard the rights of the slave owner to his slave as sacred as his rights to his
                    horses, cattle, or any other property.27
            
            After 1833 Stephen S. Harding was called upon frequently to address public gatherings in southeastern
                    Indiana. The earliest one of his speeches which is extant was made in 1833 when he was twenty-five
                    years old. On this occasion, Harding addressed a Fourth of July gathering on the subject of
                    intemperance. He could not resist the temptation to introduce into this speech the evil of slavery,
                    and to link it with intemperance as one of the two great evils undermining the sacred principles of
                    the people of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Throughout the speech Harding graphically portrayed the ravages accompanying intemperance. It was
                    near the close that he introduced the subject of slavery: 
                        This, however appalling, is but a faint picture of the ravages of intemperance; nor is it
                            from this source alone that our country need apprehend the greatest of all evils, a national
                            dissolution. These evils, however now they cannot be dwelt upon, consist of Slavery and its
                            legitimate 
                        
                           24 Hart, Slavery and Abolition, 166.
                        
                           25
                                    
                                        Lawrenceburg
                                     (Indiana) Press. June 6, 1891.
                        
                           26 Julia Henderson Levering, Historic
                                    Indiana, 283-4; William M. Cockrum, The Underground
                                        Railroad—Indiana, 12.
                        
                                    27
                                    Ibid.
                                
                     
                             offspring, Nullification. For, depend upon it, from the
                            sources of the former spring all the discord and threatening of the latter….28
                  
                    
            
            Harding, as well as other anti-slavery leaders, "discovered the usefulness of organized
                    societies, because they encouraged each other and spread information and arguments from community to
                        community.29 In 1833 he made a trip to 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    , at which time he very probably attended the convention in 
                        Philadelphia
                     which organized the Anti-Slavery Society of America. Certainly to connect himself with
                    such a convention would have been entirely in keeping with his belief in the policy of organized
                    effort. The following is from a speech of 1833: 
                        Societies for the purpose of promoting these great causes of Benevolence (intemperance and
                            slavery reform) have already been formed not only in our own country but throughout
                            Christendom, and the great and good of both Hemispheres are concentrating their moral
                            energies to accomplish this grand desideratum.
                    
            
            The next earliest preserved speech was made about 1834. This confines itself entirely to the subject
                    of slavery. In tune with the style of oratory of that day, this address is very flowery and draws a
                    fanciful picture of the horrors of an enslaved man. According to this speech, Harding's
                    cherished desire was to see the citizens of the 
                        United States
                     awakened and determined to bring about the eradication of this great evil of our
                    country. To him the fallacy of the framers of the Constitution in causing that document so to read
                    as to seem to recognized slavery in the states where it existed30 was a dark
                    blot on our history. He remembered, however, the circumstances under which the compromises of the
                    Constitution were made, and recalled Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    's question, "Is it possible to deliberate between anarchy and
                    confusion on one side, and the chances of good on the other?", and mingled charity with his
                    censure.
            By 1842, Harding had joined the fight against the extension of slavery into the territories. The
                    ornate style of his former speeches was now replaced by a more practical treatment of the subject of
                    slavery. He advocated, on this occasion, free speech and open discussion of the subject of slavery.
                    In 
                  
                     28 Harding mss., dated June 29, 1833.
                  
                     29 Hart, Slavery and Abolition. p. 160.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 253.
               
                     the heat of his discussion he says of the inconsistency of the
                    fathers of our government in admitting slavery into the Constitution: 
                        I know that this is called a delicate question and some will say ‘tread lightly on
                            the ashes of the dead’, ‘the good men do lives after them, the bad is
                            interred with their bones!’ But still, vice is not entitled to our veneration the
                            more for its age, nor that which is morally wrong to our sanction because it has numbered in
                            its advocates the names of those whose statues are in the temple of Fame, and whose names
                            are enrolled on the records of Immortality….31
                  
                    
            
            The Hoosier abolitionist took this stand on the subject of freedom of speech almost twenty years
                    before William Ellery Channing, the 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        Newport
                     minister and abolitionist declared: 
                        The greatest truths are often the most unpopular and exasperating…. The progress
                            of society depends on nothing more than on the exposure of time-sanctioned abuses, The right
                            of free discussion is, therefore, to be guarded by the friends of mankind with peculiar
                                jealousy.32
                  
                    
            
            Harding was not a Garrisonian abolitionist. He did not believe, as did William Lloyd Garrison in
                    1843, that "the compact which existed between the North and the South is a covenant with
                    death and an agreement with Hell involving both parties in atrocious criminality and should be
                    immediately annulled."33 Nor would he have sympathized with Garrison
                    when, in 1854, the latter publicly burned a copy of the Constitution, crying out, "So
                    perish all compromisers with, tyranny."34 The following quotation from
                    a speech of June 20, 1842, will prove this point: 
                        Impressed with these truths, it becomes a cardinal duty of every American citizen to
                            preserve, as far as in him lies, the purity and integrity of our institutions. They were
                            formed upon a basis of the best experience, and the principles which gave rise to them need
                            not recoil from a comparison with those ever yet advanced by any set of men.
                    
            
            On the other hand, Harding advocated an anti-slavery interpretation of the Constitution in accord
                    with what he believed 
                  
                     31 Harding mss., dated June 20, 1842.
                  
                     32
                            Tribute to the American Abolitionists fm Their Vindication of Freedom of
                            Speech (pamphlet), Anti-Slavery Society, 1861.
                  
                     33 Wilson, Rise and Fall of the Slave Power, I,
                            669-670: Hart, Slavery and Abolition, 262.
                  
                     34Ibid, 265.
               
                     to have been the ultimate purpose of the f ramers. For he
                    believed, and so expressed himself in his speeches, that it could not have been in the hearts of
                    such noble patriots as were the fathers of our country to desire to perpetuate so odious a system as
                    human slavery. In a speech made in 1849, Harding asked his audience to imagine the massive tables of 
                        Washington
                    's monument, then in the process of erection, being inscribed with some of the
                    axioms at the foundation of the belief of the slavery advocates: 
                        Suppose that the committee… should order that the plain surface of its massive
                            tablets should be inscribed in ineffaceable letters with some of the axioms which lie at the
                            foundation of certain modern schools. Here are some of them, ‘Slavery is the
                            corner stone of the American Republic’, ‘Slavery is a divinely
                            appointed institution’….
                        Is there an American who would not hide his face in shame?…. Aye, Sir, he would
                            devoutly pray… that God's descending thunderbolts would scatter in ruins
                            its record of impudent lies!!!….
                    
            
            Harding advocated the crystallization of public opinion both in the North and South for the abolition
                    of slavery: 
                        No human structure, however grand or lofty is immutable. The eternal Pyramids
                            themselves… will not remain long unimpaired without the continued skill and care
                            of the architect. Institutions and governments of every description, however well founded
                            they may be, are in the most imminent danger of being corrupted if not entirely overthrown
                            the moment that, the great end of their formation is lost sight of. In the history of a
                            people or nation there is much to be learned; we are led to avoid their errors and to
                            improve upon their wisdom.35
                  
                    
            
            He believed in the principle of meeting a political evil by political action. He left the Whig party
                    in 1840, since he did not care to identify himself with a political group which did not carry a
                    plank in its platform against the further extension of slavery into the territories, and a gentle
                    but firm determination so to alter the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     as to abolish slavery in the 
                        United States
                     forever. This is to be seen from a letter written to Harding by a friend, Aaron
                    Richardson of 
                  Rochester, Minnesota
               , in 1870, in which Richardson recalls when he and
                    Harding were 
                  
                     35 Harding mas., dated June 20, 1842.
               
                    
                    
                        pioneers in battling for the great principles contained in the Declaration of Independence.
                            Little did I think in 1841, when twelve men in Milan, Ind. absolved themselves from the old
                            political parties to contend for right,—wrote on our tickets in blazing capitals
                            ‘Human Rights’,—and put them in the ballot
                            box,—little did I think then that seed sown in such weakness would soon be raised
                            in great power.36
                  
                    
            
            A campaign leaflet of 1856 to which Harding subscribed carried the following, a platform declaring
                    that it should be the purpose 
                        to guard and protect the respective rights of native and naturalized citizens; to aid in
                            preserving the Territories of the Union for the homes of Freemen, and the institutions of
                            Freedom; to maintain and uphold the rights of the North, without infringement upon those of
                            the South; to sustain the sentiment affirmed in the Declaration of Independence, and by the
                            Fathers of the Republic, that Freedom is, and of right should be, the policy of the Nation,
                            the end and aim of our National organization,…37
                  
                    Although 1856, the date of this leaflet, is sixteen years removed from 1840, the last time
                    Harding voted with the Whig party, yet in this declaration we see a crystallization of
                    Harding's ideas as expressed in his speeches from 1840 to 1850.
            The ambiguities in the Constitution regarding slavery, Harding thought to be only a temporary
                    toleration by the framers as an expedient to bind together the thirteen colonies during the
                    formative period of the Union, with the expectation that in time the institution of slavery would
                    run its course in the 
                        United States
                     and be automatically abandoned as an economically unsound institution. Harding always
                    spoke at length in driving home to his hearers the argument that slave labor was uneconomical, as
                    well as degrading to slave and master alike. As Harding's speech made in 1849 shows, he
                    followed the moderate abolitionists like Salmon P. Chase, William Jay, Joshua R. Giddings and James
                    G. Birney, as against extremists like William Lloyd Garrison.
            Over a period of fifteen years, from 1833 until 1849, Harding developed into an able anti-slavery
                    leader, lining up with representative men of the middle and western states, hoping to lead his
                    section of Indiana to victory over slavery. As a reward for this growth and leadership, Harding
                    became a leader in state politics on the tickets of the Liberty and Free- 
                  
                     36 This letter is among the Harding mss. at Milan, Indiana.
                  
                     37 This leaflet is among the Harding papers at Milan, Indiana.
               
                     Soil parties and arose to further prominence in the Republican
                    victory of 1860.
            In June, 1844, Harding delivered an anti-slavery speech at the courthouse in 
                        Versailles
                    , Indiana. At that date there were not "twelve men in 
                        Ripley county
                     who were avowedly in sympathy with his views", according to Major Oscar
                    Cravens of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in his address at that city on the occasion of memorial services for Harding.38
            
            Proud, ambitious, a highly sensitive being, Harding knew to the fullest extent the unpopularity of
                    the cause he espoused. The space about the courthouse, where he was to speak, was filled with
                    auditors. Some were armed. There was a determination that Harding should not speak. Upon the
                    courthouse was painted on black muslin, "Treason, treason, the Union dissolved this day by
                    the abolitionists." Personal friends tried to dissuade Harding from speaking. According to
                    his own report, one friend said: 
                        You know that I am your friend. I would not see you insulted and abused for all that I am
                            worth. It won't do for you to attempt to make a speech here today. The people,
                            without distinction of party, have determined that you shall not make an abolition speech no
                            matter what happens. The Whigs and Democrats held a meeting last night in the Court House
                            and have agreed in their determination that you should not speak here today. I beg of you to
                            go away immediately and have no trouble….
                    
            
            Harding described his feelings and decision: 
                        As I listened to this my very brain was on fire. I replied, "Mr. S. will you take my
                            horse or will you compel me to hitch him to the fence? I will not go back. By the eternal I
                            will make a speech in this town today or I will be carried out of it feet
                                foremost. Yes, sir, I will do it if every shingle", pointing to the roof
                            of the courthouse, "turns into a grinning devil !!!"
                        Turning to my friends who had now disposed of their horses, I said, "Gentlemen,
                            follow me." By this time the doors and upper windows were filled with women and
                            children. To the credit of some of these ladies they were actually wiping their
                            eyes… There were men on the streets that looked at me and my friends with a
                            brutal stare….
                    
            
            Harding did speak, unperturbed by the threats of being mobbed. He delivered a fiery abolition speech
                    and predicted 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                             (Indiana) Press, June 6, 1891.
               
                     that in twenty years slavery would be wiped out of existence in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . He declaimed to the 
                        Versailles
                     audience upon the right of free speech, the right of the press, and the rights of the
                    people of God's creation without distinction of color.39
            
            This speech at 
                        Versailles
                     made converts of some of the strongest and most able men in southern Indiana, who
                    remained loyal to the cause of anti-slavery until slavery was abolished. At the time of this address
                    in 1844, Harding was undoubtedly one of the best informed men of Indiana upon the slavery question,
                    having followed closely the sentiments of the abolition and pro-slavery leaders since 1830. In
                    facing an Indiana audience in 1844, Harding had to bear in mind that his fellow citizens of Indiana
                    had but a superficial knowledge of the slavery question. To them it was an institution necessary and
                    natural. Any attempt to overthrow it was considered by them radical and even treasonable. They
                    believed it to bear the sanction of the American constitution. As a result of this feeling, founded
                    on sentiment rather than on logic, Harding by many of his public utterances, brought down on his own
                    head the ire of the people. He had high hopes that once the people of Indiana were informed on the
                    slavery question, they would rally to the cause of anti-slavery, the torch of which he held aloft
                    among his benighted neighbors.
            Slavery, in 1844, was still firmly upheld by both major political parties, Democrats and Whigs. On
                    the evening before Harding delivered his speech at 
                        Versailles
                     both the major parties held meetings and resolved that Harding should not be permitted
                    to address an audience in 
                        Ripley county
                     on the subject of slavery. The signs on the political horizon were threatening. Slavery
                    seemed to dominate all departments of the Federal Government.40 Freedom of the
                    press and freedom of speech were but a mockery. Harding yielded to no party at the expense of his
                    code of ethics. He once advised: 
                        Do not seek to conciliate individuals or parties at the expense of your manhood and settled
                            convictions of justice and right. Do not dread the frowns of a sect, not yield to the
                            proscriptions of a party….41
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  39 Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 612-13,
                        gives a stirring account of this incident: Rebuck, "Biography of Harding: American Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men of the State of Indiana
                        (4th Gong. Dist.). I. 79-83.
               
                  40 Smith, A Political History of Slavery, I, 83.
               
                  41 Harding mss., dated 1849.
            
            
            The story is told that in 1844 Harding addressed a meeting at North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana. The lights suddenly were extinguished. In the face of insult and threat
                    Harding was expected by his enemies to quit his speech and go home. On the contrary he delivered a
                    powerful address in the dark and won his audience completely by his unflinching courage.42
            
            According to Harding's own account, given in an interview with Judge O. F. Roberts of 
                        Aurora
                    , Indiana, in December, 1883,43 about three o'clock one
                    morning in the summer of 1844, shortly after his speech at 
                        Versailles
                    , Indiana, a loud knock was heard at his door. Responding to the knock, he found a young
                    man at the door. Harding describes the incident as follows: 
                        He bowed and handed me a letter. It was from some Quakers at 
                                Knightstown
                            , Indiana, who begged me to meet a Methodist preacher in debate at that place,
                            who proposed to maintain not only the divine origin of slavery, but that it was sanctioned
                            by the Bible as clearly as the relation of husband and wife, parent and child. I did not
                            hesitate a moment, but I at once set off for 
                                Knightstown
                             on horseback. I rode all day and until three o'clock next morning. I
                            stopped with a 
                                Quaker
                             near 
                                Knightstown
                            . The debate was in the 
                                Quaker
                             meeting house near the town. It lasted two days. When I went to the church I
                            was introduced to the Rev. Mr. Kavanaugh,—He was a natural orator, and I was so
                            informed before I met him. At first I wished I had not gone there, but the more I thought
                            about it, the more my courage rose, and at last I felt eager for the fray to begin. The
                            Quakers there told me, ‘he is worthy of thy steel’, and I found him
                            so…. Kavanaugh was full of brilliant, dashing rhetoric. I closed the discussion.
                            I charged upon him with this quotation, looking him squarely in the face, 
                            Just Allah, what must be thy look
                            When such a wretch before thee stands
                            Turning the pages of thy sacred book
                            With most defiled and blood-stained hands
                            And drawing from the text divine
                            A charter for his blood and crime.
                        
                        The vast audience then arose with one universal shout, throwing of hats, and dispersed.44
                  
               
            
            Fortunately for Harding's fate, he was speaking among Friends. He explained in later years
                    that 
                  
                     42 Captain John C. Sims of 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana, who was present at this meeting left a verbal account of
                            Harding's conduct.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                             (Indiana) Press, December 13, 1833.
                  
                     44 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans. I, 512-13, gives an
                            account of this debate in which he says Kavanaugh "was no match for Harding.
               
                    
                    in 1844, the Freewill Baptists, Radical Methodists, and Quakers were all
                        bold, outspoken, anti-slavery men, but all the other churches were pro-slavery, and they would
                        no more admit me to their churches than they would if I had been advocating horse-stealing and
                        the shoving of the queer. Those were the days that tried men's souls.45
                    
            
            Harding chose to throw away his vote rather than to align himself with a pro-slavery candidate for
                    president on either the Democrat or Whig ticket, after he became an enemy of slavery. So few were
                    the souls in Indiana daring to expound publicly in 1840 their anti-slavery opinions that no Liberty
                    party could be organized in the state. 
                  Ohio,
                            Illinois
                and 
                        Michigan
                    , however, to the north and adjoining Indiana on either side, had active Liberty or
                    abolition party organizations by 1840.46 In the Philanthropist, the virile anti-slavery paper of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , published by G. Bailey, Jr., appeared the names of the nominees for governor on the
                    Liberty ticket in 
                  Massachusetts, Connecticut
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In this same issue an appeal was made by the editor that "our friends in the
                    different counties will transmit us immediately accurate returns of the number of Liberty votes
                        given."47 This particular issue carried an abridged account of an
                    address by Joshua R. Giddings, for twenty years (1838-1848) a member of the national House from 
                        Ohio
                    , and a prominent opponent of slavery. This article appealed to Harding, as indicated by
                    his pen markings. Addressing his constituents of the sixteenth Congressional District of 
                        Ohio
                    , Giddings called to their attention the denial by Congress of the right to present
                    "abolition petitions". Because of Harding's contact with these 
                        Ohio
                     anti-slavery leaders and anti-slavery publications, he was made all the more firm in
                    his belief that slavery was a political evil which must be met by political action.
            The Liberty Party vote in the state of Indiana in 1842 totaled only 900; in 1843, the year Stephen S.
                    Harding's name first appeared on the ticket of this party in Indiana as candidate for
                    lieutenant governor, the vote increased to 2, 050. Since the Liberty party organization in Indiana
                    was but a year old, certainly Harding must have been a leader in its 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Press, December 13, 1883.
                  
                     46
                            Indiana Daily Sentinel. Dee. 19, 1843.
                  
                     47
                            Philanthropist, Oct. 20, 1841.
               
                     formation since he was selected as a candidate on the state
                    ticket.
            In the Indiana Freewuzn, an anti-slavery paper published by Henry W. De Puy, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , an account is given of a Liberty Party convention held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on November 14, 1844.48 The platform of the Liberty party, as drawn
                    up at this convention and published in this issue of the Freeman, is found among
                    the Harding papers.
            The Liberty Party in Indiana, although polling a small vote in 1843 and 1844, was slowly gaining
                    ground and prestige in the state at the expense, apparently, of the Whig party. The Indiana State Journal expressed the following opinions before the nomination of Taylor in
                    1848: 
                        If the Whigs get the states of 
                                New York
                             and Indiana in addition to the vote of 1844 they can win. These are the nearest
                            Whig states. There were cast in Indiana in 1844, 138,000 votes. Polk's majority was
                            2, 100. With a proper candidate we can overcome that….
                        A large number of our voters are Abolitionists, conscientiously opposed to voting for a slave
                            holder… They hold the balance of power in Indiana. They are Whig and will not
                            support the Whig ticket unless free from that objection.49
                  
                    
            
            In the state election of 1846, Harding was again the Liberty Party nominee for lieutenant governor,
                    with Stephen C. Stevens as the nominee for governor. Stevens also was a southern Indiana man. He had
                    served in both houses of the Legislature and on the supreme court of Indiana. In 1826 and 1828 he
                    was elected as senator from 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Ripley
                     counties, the latter being Harding's home. Judge Stevens was appointed to the
                    Supreme Court bench in 1831, the year after Harding, at the age of twenty-three, began the practice
                    of law at 
                        Versailles
                    , Indiana. Judge Stevens was also a fearless anti-slavery man. Opposition to slavery was
                    with him, as with Harding, a principle, for which he was willing to sacrifice all.50
            
            Of the political fight in the state election of 1846 the Indiana Daily Sentinel
                    recorded: The abolition vote at the recent election, as reported from 48 counties, is about 1,900.
                    In the 
                  
                     48
                            Indiana Freeman, November 16, 1844.
                  
                     49
                            Indiana State Journal, April 26, 1848.
                  
                     50 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                                Indiana, 364.
               
                     whole State it will perhaps reach 2,500,—leaving a
                    democratic majority over whiggery and niggery of about 1, 500.51
            
            In the presidential campaign of 1848, the Free Soil vote in Indiana jumped to 8,109, the Liberty
                    Party men being absorbed by the larger anti-slavery party. Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren was the Free Soil candidate and enjoyed the Free Soil support in Indiana. The
                    race between the two major parties was very close, the third party holding the balance of power in
                    the state.
            The Free-Soil party of Indiana was formed at a mass meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 26, 1848. The assembly was composed of members of the Liberty Party with a
                    considerable number of Democrats and Whigs who would not tolerate slavery-extension. Although unable
                    to be present at this meeting because he was attending the Free-Soil national convention at Buffalo, 
                        New York
                    , Harding sent a letter of congratulations, as did also Judge Stevens who had been
                    Hard-ing's colleague on the Liberty Party ticket in the state election of 1846.
            The following item from the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Weekly Herald, published at 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , and edited
                    by J. V. Smith is interesting: 
                        In relation to the interesting narrative you gave in this morning's paper, let me
                            relate further of what happened at Buffalo and along our route….
                        On our return from 
                                Urbana
                            , we found that a notice had been circulated that a voice from Buffalo would be
                            heard that evening from some of the delegates passing through. Although word had been passed
                            around for the people to have a glorious staying away, when the hour came the Court House
                            was crowded. The only speaker with us was S. S. Harding, of Indiana, and it seemed rather
                            blue to satisfy such an assembly with such a subject, but at it he went, blundering along
                            for some ten or fifteen minutes, when warming with the subject he laid off his coat and gave
                            it to Taylorism for three hours in one of the most effective and powerful speeches. The
                            audience, made up almost wholly of Taylor men, annoyed him at first by their rude
                            interruptions, but they became more and more attentive, remaining until 11 o'clock,
                            and greeting the speech and the platform with a round of applause.52
                  
                    
            
            The Indiana State Journal in commenting on the second Free-Soil convention held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1848, which Harding attended, remarked: 
                  
                     51
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Sept. 16, 1846.
                  
                     52
                            Weekly Herald, Aug. 28, 1848.
               
                    
                    
                        We attended the Convention and heard some of the speeches made. On Tuesday night, Mr.
                            Harding, one of the leading Abolitionists in the State, entertained his audience with a
                            speech of considerable length. In the course of his remarks, for the purpose of making 
                                Van
                             Buren palatable to the Abolitionists, he took the ground that all his former
                            opposition to him and all his political iniquity should be buried with the
                            past—and that all should now rally around him, because he was now right. He
                            acknowledged that it was with some difficulty he got his own consent to go for
                            him—but he finally concluded to do it.53
                  
                    
            
            In the presidential campaign of 1852, Harding voted for the Free Soil candidates for President and
                    Vice-president. Indiana had become a more important factor in the General Free Soil movement by
                    1852. George W. Julian who had been elected to the national House by Free Soilers and Democrats in
                    1849 and who later became a Republican leader in Indiana was selected as the running mate of John
                    Parker Hale in the presidential campaign of 1852.
            Harding was one of the eleven presidential electors on the Free-Soil ticket in 1852 representing the
                    fourth congressional district. Stephen C. Stevens and James H. Cravens were the two electors at
                    large from the state.54
            
            The Central Committee of the Free-Soil party advertized its state convention in the following notice:
                        
                        The friends of Freedom and of Free-Soil, including all those opposed to the
                            "Fugitive Slave Law", will hold a State Convention at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on the third Monday in May—for the purpose of deliberating upon the
                            interests of the cause of Liberty and of our State and Nation.
                        Each township is requested to send one delegate to the Convention.
                    
            
            This convention was made up of members of the old Liberty Party, "with a few Whigs and
                    Democrats still clinging on to their skirts, who aided in organizing the Free-Soil party in
                    1848." They were determined to continue as a political organization separate from both of
                    the major political parties. A full state ticket was nominated, with the exception of judges. George
                    W. Julian, A. L. Robinson and Stephen S. Harding addressed this convention.55
            
            Democrats and Whigs declared in their national platforms of 1852 that the question of slavery had
                    been settled. Each party resolved that further agitation of the slavery question 
                  
                     53
                            Indiana State Journal (tri-weekly), August 30, 1848.
                  
                     54
                            Indiana State Journal, September 23, 1862.
                  
                     55 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, May 20, 1862.
               
                     was unwise and unpatriotic. There was sufficient political
                    undertow, however, to pull down and engulf the nicely stated declarations of the Whig and Democratic
                    parties. The next eight years were to see the slavery issue to the fore in politics with the decline
                    of the Whig Party and the birth of the Republican Party.
            Only a remnant of the Whig Party remained in existence after the campaign of 1854, in Indiana. There
                    was a general breaking up of party lines throughout the North as politicians themselves began to
                    recognize that the next national campaign must be made practically upon the slavery issue.56 Throughout the free States an effort was being made to form a new political
                    party from the Free-Soilers, Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Whigs and Democrats, "Native Americans", foreigners, with other
                    recruits from any political sect opposed to slavery that could be united in a common cause.
            It was during the presidential canvass of 1852 that Stephen S. Harding met in joint debate the Hon.
                    Jesse D. Bright, then a 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana, at a political mass meeting in 
                        Manchester
                    .57 Although Harding and Bright were of opposite political faith,
                    they had always been friends. Senator Bright, in the course of his speech at 
                        Manchester
                    , looking at Harding, said to the crowd: 
                        There is my old friend Harding, as clever a gentleman as I ever met. I never see him without
                            thinking what a pity it is that such a man should be foolish enough to spend his time, or
                            sacrifice such prospects as he might have if he would quit paddling his little boat in the
                            dirty goose-pond of abolitionism.
                    This ill-timed jest, though typical of Bright, brought a rebuke from Harding who retorted:
                    "The world moves; politics is a revolving wheel; and he who is on top today will find
                    himself at the bottom tomorrow."58
            
            
               
                  56 Russell M. Seeds, History of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana, 17.
               
                  57 Bright owned a farm in 
                            Kentucky
                        , well stocked with negroes, and was, therefore, identified with the South by
                        interest as well as feeling. Although he was a Senator from Indiana, a free state, he was the
                        owner of slaves, with his largest material interests in 
                            Kentucky
                         (Woollen. P. 228. He became president pro-tem of the 
                            United States
                         Senate in 1865 (Tribune Almanac, 1866, 16). and was the center of
                        strife in connection with the alleged illegal election of 
                            United States
                         senators in Indiana in 1868 (Tribune Almanac, 1860, 86-87). For
                        twenty years prior to 1860, Bright was the leading man in Indiana politics, and the autocrat of
                        the Democratic party in the state (Woollen, 228).
               
                  58
                        American Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men of the State of
                        Indiana (4th Cong. Dist.), I, 78-79. This retort of Harding is interesting because of the
                        fact that on the 31st of March, 1862, Harding was appointed by President Lincoln governor of 
                            Utah
                         territory, and the same Senate which confirmed the appointment charged Senator
                        Bright with disloyalty and expelled him from the Senate. The 2nd session of the 37th Congress
                        convened on December 2, 1861, and adjourned on July 17, 1862. Bright 
            
            
            After the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act in 1854, the Democratic party in Indiana was put on the defensive, and a new
                    People's party arose in the state. Harding aligned himself with this new party which became
                    the Republican Party of Indiana and became prominent in the campaigns of 1854, 1856 and 1860.
            Moved by two great moral forces—opposition to the further extension of slavery and the
                    demand for a temperance law—the opponents of the Democratic party in Indiana assembled at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in convention and formed the new People's Party of Indiana on July 13, 1854.
                    So great were the numbers that came to this meeting that the leaders had to hold a meeting on the
                    night of July 12 in order to perfect on organization which could handle the crowd which had
                    assembled. It was estimated that between 8,000 and 10,000 people, of all political affiliations,
                    coming into 
                        Indianapolis
                     in various kinds of conveyances from every direction, gathered for the mass meeting of
                    July 13. The preliminary meeting on July 12 was addressed by Stephen S. Harding, Schuyler Col-fax,
                    Henry S. Lane, Joseph W. Wright, and Reuben A. Riley, all men of high repute in their respective
                    political circles.59
            
            Open denunciation of slavery won for the new party a tremendous following in the state. The
                    temperance movement, which was sweeping the state, added impetus to the new organization. Not only
                    Democrats and Whigs, but even the People's Party leaders themselves were astounded to
                    discover the decisive victory of this newest party organization. The state ticket was carried by a
                    plurality of 13, 000 and six of the eleven Congressional districts were carried.60
            
            The campaign and election of 1856 proved a most stirring contest in Indiana. The People's
                    Party had advanced to a new position on the slavery question; in 1854 it demanded the restoration of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line; by 1856 its cry was "No More Slave
                        States."
               61
            
            From 1854 to 1856 the People's party men in Indiana at times called themselves Republicans,
                    which was correct enough, but this name, Republican, was not given to the party as
                        
                  was expelled on February 5, 1862, and Harding was appointed governor of 
                                Utah
                             territory on March 31, 1862.
                  
                     59 Seeds, History of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana, 21: Charles Zimmerman. "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party
                            in Indiana from 1854 to 1360," Indiana Magazine of History (Sept.
                            1917), XIII, 234.
                  
                     60 Seeds, Republican Party in Indiana, 23.
                  
                     61 W. H. Smith, The History of the State of Indiana,
                            II, 927-923.
               
                     a whole in the state until the congressional and state campaign
                    of 1858. However, Indiana sent a full delegation to the Republican national convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on June 17, 1856, at which convention John C. Frémont of 
                        California
                     and William L. Dayton of 
                        New Jersey
                     were nominated for president and vice-president, respectively.
            As the October election in Indiana drew near, the People's Party (Republican) leaders in the
                    state were confident of success, but the returns showed a Democratic victory. When the November
                    election came on for presidential electors, Indiana went Democratic by about 20, 000. The
                    Republicans, however, did carry five of the eleven Congressional districts, all in the northern part
                    of the state. This seemed to draw a line in Indiana, making northern Indiana more anti-slavery than
                    southern Indiana.
            Harding saw in the birth of the new party a great possibility of stamping out slavery. He had been
                    prominently identified with the anti-slavery parties since 1840, when he had left the Whig party. He
                    had been a candidate for state offices on the Liberty Party ticket. He was devoted to the cause of
                    the destruction of the institution of slavery and was aware that he could not promote this cause by
                    further adherence to the old anti-slavery political organization. The platform opposing the
                    extension of slavery lured Harding into the Republican ranks, and made of him an active promoter of
                    the Republican cause in Indiana. From first to last, Harding changed his party allegiance only when
                    he saw a better chance to strike at slavery.
            The Republican national platform of 1856 opposed those "twin relics of
                    barbarism,—polygamy and slavery", and declared it to be the constitutional right
                    and imperative duty of Congress to prohibit these in the territories. On the subject of polygamy,
                    Harding was now rabid. He and Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, had been boys together in 
                        New York
                     state. Harding believed Mormonism to be a hoax and welcomed the chance to vote against
                    polygamy in the election of 1856.
            In a speech made in the campaign of 1856, Harding divided the Democratic party into three classes:
                    office holders and office hunters and their dependents; the descendents of the so-called,
                    "F.F's" (first families) of 
                        Virginia
                     and other slave-  holding states; and a last group
                    of honest men, not yet aroused against slavery. In regard to the last two classes Harding remarked:
                        
                        To convince this [second] class of Democrats that there was anything wrong in the relation of
                            master and slave, or that the institution ought not to extend into the territories would be
                            quite as hopeless a task as to convince a freezing man under a clear and frosty sky there is
                            warmth in moonshine. I shall not waste my time in attempting to convince this class of
                            disinterested patriots…. But there is a third class still belonging to the so
                            called Democratic party that I would calmly and kindly address. This class is made up of
                            honest and patriotic men who have not examined the great issues which divide the Republican
                            and democratic parties as closely as their paramount importance demands,—men who
                            have been lulled into security by the sacred name of democracy, and led on by political
                            adventurers, and aspirants for the high places in the Republic, until they have long since
                            departed from every true principle… until they have been made the unconscious yet
                            willing instruments,… through the administration of 
                                Franklin
                             Pierce,—of wrong and outrage upon unoffending brethren in 
                                Kansas
                            ….62
                  
                    
            
            Defeat in the state and national elections of 1856 did not discourage the members of the
                    People's Party (new Republican party). In 1857 and 1858 they strengthened their party
                    organization and succeeded in the state election of 1858 in winning seven of the eleven
                    Congressional districts in Indiana.63
            
            From 1856 to 1860 the feeling of opposition to the extension of slavery remained strong, not only in
                    Indiana but throughout the North. One evidence of this growth was the Republican state nominating
                    convention held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22, 1860, which was the largest assemblage of its kind ever held in the
                    capital. So great was the crowd that it was decided to move to the state house yard. The state
                    ticket was selected and delegates were chosen for the national Republican convention at 
                        Chicago
                    . A State Central Committee of sixteen members was chosen, on which Harding was given a
                    place.
            Because of the importance of carrying Indiana for the Republican party, a memorial was directed by
                    the Republican 
                  
                     62 An old law account book of Harding was filled with clippings on the
                            campaign of 1866. In this booklet Harding draws a comparison between the Democratic party of
                            1882 and that of 1866, arguing that the Democratic party had become a purely slave party as
                            opposed to the party of 1832 many leaders of which at that time spoke publicly of the evils
                            of slavery.
                  
                     63 Seeds, Republican Party in Indiana, 416.
               
                     State Central Committee to the National Republican Committee
                    urging that the national convention be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was argued that Indiana should have the convention since the state was more
                    doubtful than any other likely to be carried by the Republicans. The National Committee, however,
                    failed to see the importance of holding the convention in Indiana, naming 
                        Chicago
                     as the place, and June 13 as the time. The date was afterwards changed to May 16.
            Indiana played no small part in the nomination of Lincoln at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1860, and Republicans of the Hoosier state went into the canvass with an
                    organization much more complete than before and carried Indiana for Lincoln.64
                    
                  Pennsylvania, Illinois
               , Indiana and 
                        New Jersey
                     were looked upon as the states in which the greatest efforts would have to be made in
                    order to insure the election of a Republican president. The election for state officers in Indiana
                    occurred in October, prior to that for president in November. Lincoln recognized the importance of
                    Indiana, for he said that, "We might succeed in general results without Indiana, but with
                    it failure is scarcely possible."65
            
            The story of the defeat of William H. Seward in the Republican national convention in 1860 is too
                    well known to require repetition. The Indiana Republican delegates to the 
                        Chicago
                     convention feared that Indiana could not be carried for Seward and, having no candidate
                    of their own, concluded that the best way to defeat Seward was to support Lincoln.66 When it became known that not only the Indiana delegates but the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegates would stand solidly for Lincoln, the 
                        Illinois
                     delegation, a part of which held out for Seward, was persuaded to back Lincoln. He was
                    nominated on the third ballot.67 Lincoln's nomination by the Republican
                    party in 1860 came as a surprise to the general public, since in the Republican ranks were such well
                    known men as Seward, of 
                        New York
                    , Simon Cameron of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and Salmon P. Chase of 
                        Ohio
                    , while Lincoln was not well known.
            The October election in Indiana resulted in a Republican victory of 10, 000 majority, with seven
                    Republican Congressmen 
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., p. 410.
                  
                     65 John J. Nicolay and John Hay, Works of Abraham
                            Lincoln, VI. 48.
                  
                     66 Zimmerman. "Republican Party in Indiana", Indiana Magazine of History (Sept. 1917), XIII, 392.
                  
                     67 Smith, The History of the State of Indiana, I,
                            304.
               
                     elected out of the possible eleven. This victory was followed
                    by a Republican success over all the North in November. Indiana gave Lincoln 139,033 votes; Stephen
                    A. Douglas, the candidate of the northern Democrats, 115,509 votes; John C. Breckinridge, the
                    candidate of the southern Democrats, 12, 295 votes; and John Bell, the candidate of the
                    Constitutional Union party, 5, 306 votes.
            The day for a grand rally for Lincoln and the Republican cause was set for August 29. The Republican
                    State Central Committee was in such demand that an earlier date could not be arranged. On that day a
                    crowd estimated at 50, 000 gathered in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the great occasion. Republican success was Harding's success, for his hope
                    of over thirty years standing was on the eve of being realized. He first saw slavery in 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1828 and returned to his home an enemy of the institution. When the opportunity
                    arose, he carried his work out of his community into state politics, becoming active as a leader in
                    the Free-Soil movement which was followed in the organization of the Republican party in 1854-1856.
                    His party successful, Harding accepted two posts under President Lincoln, first as Governor of 
                        Utah
                     territory and then as Chief Justice of the territorial court of 
                        Colorado
                    .
         
         
         
            The 
                        Fall Creek
                     Tragedy
            BY HELEN THURMAN
            
            A few years ago, when Pendleton, Indiana, held its Centennial Celebration and Home-coming, the story
                    of the massacre of Indians by some pioneer settlers of that locality was retold. Afterwards large
                    city papers presented the account as an historical news feature. Writers have a very impersonal way
                    of digging up these old tales and giving them out to a sensation-mad public, failing to realize that
                    all the people touched by the crime do not die with the perpetrators. The living generation is
                    frequently confronted with articles and pictures reviewing fully past crimes in their worst details.
                    Such publicity is often a source of great humiliation to many worthy persons. This article is
                    written with no intention to vindicate the murders of 1824, but it seems only fair when any crime of
                    a past period is being reviewed to make public all the things that have a bearing on the situation.
                    Often there are cases, as Sir Roger De Coverly was prone to hold, when "Much can be said on
                    both sides."
            The tale of the 
                        Fall Creek
                     massacre is more or less familiar to all who have read the old stories of Indiana.
                    There are enough thrills in it to last the average individual the rest of his natural lifetime.
                    Briefly stated, it is to the effect that, in February, 1824, a visiting citizen from 
                        Ohio
                    , Thomas Harper, led three Indiana pioneers, James Hudson, Andrew Sawyer and John
                    Townsend Bridge, the group being accompanied by a son of the latter (John Bridge), to an Indian camp
                    on 
                        Fall Creek
                     near Pendleton where they killed two adult Indian men, two squaws, two boys and two
                    small girls.
            Harper, who was the instigator of the crime escaped and was never apprehended. The others were
                    brought to trial. Hudson was tried, convicted in October and hanged in December, 1824, several
                    months before the others. Some days after conviction, in the spring of 1825, Sawyer and the two
                    Bridges were brought to the place of execution, where each awaited his turn seated on his own
                    coffin. Sawyer and the elder Bridge were disposed of in the presence of a great Crowd, including
                    Indians from far and near, and the noose was adjusted about the neck of the younger Bridge who was
                         only eighteen years of age. The boy had the sympathy of the
                    assembled multitude. Having just witnessed the execution of his father and uncle, he was nearly
                    demented with grief and fear. At the last minute, Governor James 
                        Brown
                     Ray, after a most spectacular ride, arrived with a pardon for the youth.
            Although Indiana was undoubtedly right in the punishment meted out, still the details of a crime and
                    the fulfillment of legal justice do not constitute the entire story, no matter how thoroughly the
                    reading public may enjoy that part of the tale. An event of pioneer days should not be viewed
                    through the same lens that is used in the case of a modern racket war. To thoroughly understand
                    anything of an historical nature, it must be placed in the correct setting as to time, place,
                    persons, motives, and the customs of the day. So far, not much has been said about the personality
                    or motives of the men implicated, so that must be supplied by family tradition and verified as fully
                    as possible by various histories.
            Of the man Hudson, not much is known except that histories tell us he had "a mean
                    look", which may account for the fact that he was tried and hanged a few weeks before the
                    other men. An eye witness of the trial (Oliver H. Smith) says that the elder Bridge and Sawyer
                    looked like ordinary pioneer farmers, the former of whom served on the Grand Jury in 1823, and
                    frequently went into the settlement for supplies. His name was John Townsend Bridge. He was born in 
                        Boston
                     during the Revolutionary Wiir. His father was Samuel Bridge of 
                  Lexington, Massachusetts
               , who was a soldier of the Revolution. Hudson's History of 
                            Lexington
                        
                mentions the marriage of a Samuel Bridge and Hannah Townsend. If John Townsend
                    Bridge was a son of this Samuel Bridge his ancestry goes back to the old 
                        Puritan
                     whose statue still stands on 
                        Harvard
                     Square. That may remain an unsolved question as the birth record of John Townsend
                    Bridge has never been found owing to the fact that many records were lost during the siege of 
                        Boston
                    . The wife of John Townsend Bridge was Mary Harper whose family had settled in 
                        Virginia
                     and for whom Harper's Ferry was named. Sawyer's wife may also have
                    been a Harper for he is spoken of as a brother-in-law of the elder Bridge.1 In
                    the westward trend, some members of 
                  
                     1In the Centennial History of 
                                    Madison county
                                
                      (1926), I, compiled under the editorial supervision of James J.
                            Netterville, there is a more extended account of the 
                                Fall Creek
                             tragedy than can be found elsewhere. While the story of the tragedy and trials
                            as sketched by Oliver H. Smith in 1867 is freely drawn upon, court records have also
                        been
               
                     these several families moved to 
                  Butler county, Ohio
               , and from there to 
                        Madison county
                    , Indiana. After the settlers located in Indiana, the unfortunate band of roving Indians
                    came and set their traps in 
                        Fall Creek
                     nearby.
            Since the family history does not indicate a criminal tendency, a strong motive for so base a crime
                    must be sought. In a work entitled History and Biographical Clyclopaedia of 
                            Butler county
                        
                (
                        Ohio
                    ), the 
                        Fall Creek
                     Tragedy is mentioned in connection with a John Harper, and the statement is made that
                    it was in retaliation for the massacre of some of the Harper family years before. Also, during the
                    War of 1812, one of the Harpers was killed at the River Raisin. It will be recalled that General
                    Winchester (American) surrendered with the promise of British protection. General Proctor (British)
                    withdrew, however, leaving the American soldiers at the mercy of the Indian warriors who were allies
                    of the British. The redmen began their work with tomahawk and scalping-knife, fired the building
                    that housed the wounded, and hurled back into the flames all who tried to escape. So demoniac was
                    the slaughter that the words "Remember the Raisin", became a slogan of the
                    Americans. It was this stirring battle cry that spurred General Harrison's men to their
                    most determined effort.
            Another event that stirred the Harper family most profoundly was the kidnaping of a little girl whose
                    fate was still a matter of horrible conjecture at the time the settlers reeked their vengeance on
                    the Indians along 
                        Fall Creek
                     near Pendleton. Elizabeth Harper was stolen by the Indians in 1800 when she was but
                    three years old. It was maple sugar time and the Indians had come into the 
                        Ohio
                     settlement either to watch the boiling of the sap or to engage in making syrup for
                    themselves. One squaw in particular seemed to greatly fancy the little white girl. The next day
                    Elizabeth disappeared while following the older children who went forth to drive home the cows.
                    Moccasin tracks were seen near a stream, but although the settlers searched frantically, no trace of
                    Elizabeth was discovered. Incidentally, it may be mentioned that she was found forty years later,
                    long after 
                  used. In the Centennial History account, John Townsend Bridge is said to
                            have married sawyer's sister. This is an error as the Bridge family records show
                            that he married Mary Harper. Since Sawyer was a brother-in-law of Bridge, he probably
                            married a sister of Mary Harper. Thus both Sawyer and Bridge were relations of the Thomas
                            Harper of 
                        Butler county, Ohio
                     , who was the leader in the killing of the
                            Indians.
               
                her parents were dead. A friend saw her in a camp and
                    recognized her by the resemblance to her family. Upon investigation, she was positively identified.
                    She was married to an Indian and had two children. She never returned to civilization but died in
                    the West. After the child's disappearance, the distracted father and mother visited all the
                    large Indian camps along the Maumee. They went to Sandusky and 
                        Detroit
                     and also journeyed up and down the White and Wabash
                        Rivers. The long search proved fruitless and they gave up in despair.2
            
            The Harpers "nursed their wrath to keep it warm" and a great hatred for the Indians
                    was developed in the breast of each member of the family. Such was the condition when the Thomas
                    Harper concerned in the tragedy came from 
                        Ohio
                     to visit his relatives who had settled near Pendleton.3 He was much
                    shocked to find that a band of Indians had camped so near his loved ones and felt that they were a
                    menace, though they do seem to have been harmless redskins. At his instigation, a spying, but
                    ostensibly friendly, visit was paid to the camp. The tradition is that one of the Indians displayed
                    a number of white scalps.4 If so, this all too vividly recalled the fact that
                    some of the Harpers had suffered from savage scalping knives.
            There is also a tradition to the effect that a settler's wife had been attacked by an
                    Indian. It is more likely that this was what they feared would happen rather than
                    what had actually taken place for no evidence of the kind is presented at the trial according to the
                    records. Another bit of tradition places the massacre on the night following a log-rolling. Since a
                    pioneer's hospitality on such occasions was judged by the amount of whiskey dispensed, that
                    may account somewhat for the brutality of the crime. Whether right or wrong, there is no denying the
                    fact that whiskey, as well as quinine, played a part in the settlement of a new state.
            
               
                  2 The story of Elizabeth Harper is found in the Centennial
                            History of 
                                Butler county
                            
                   (
                            Ohio
                        ), and also, with some supplementary data, in the History and
                            Biographical Cyclopedia of 
                        Butler county, Ohio
                     .
               
               
                  3 In the Centennial History of 
                                Madison county
                            
                  , I, referred to in note 1, Thomas Harper is described as a
                        "roving character" who "had spent most of his life on the frontier,
                        and loved to boast of the number of Indians he had killed, saying that it was no worse to kill
                        an Indian than to kill a deer." It would seem that no historian of 
                            Madison county
                         was ever able to learn more than this about Thomas Harper or the Harper family.
               
                  4 There is a persistent tradition in the Bridge family that on a visit to
                        the Indian camp, prior to the time of the tragedy, Thomas Harper, John Townsend Bridge and
                        others were shown some scalps by one of the Indians which he had taken from Whites.
            
            
            
                    Inspiring old John Barleycorn!
                    What dangers thou canst make us scorn!
                    Wi' tipenny we fear nae evil;
                    Wi' usquebae we'll face the devil.
                
            Anyone who loves and reads pioneer history has observed the fact that there were frequent massacres
                    of Indians by the Whites. A most notable case was the slaughter of nearly a hundred praying Indians
                    in a Moravian Church in Guadenheutten, 
                        Ohio
                    . Among the group were thirty-four children. Edgar W. Hassler, in his story of this
                    terrible event, remarks that "It was thought no worse to slay an Indian than to shoot a
                    wolf, and the children of the redmen were but wolf cubs whose appetites and fangs were not yet
                        developed."5
            
            Oliver H. Smith, who wrote in 1857, concludes his account of the trials of Hudson, Sawyer and the
                    Bridges, with this significant comment: "Thus ended the only trials, where convictions of
                    murder were ever had, followed by the execution of white men, for killing Indians, in the 
                        United States
                    ."6 The writer of this statement who was later a 
                        United States
                     Senator, participated in the trials as a young attorney and witnessed the executions.
                    His report of the trials is reprinted in several different histories of 
                        Madison county
                     (Indiana). In one of these appears a statement which is worth repeating: "It
                    was perhaps not thought to be such an awful thing to kill an Indian at that time [1824], or, perhaps
                    this deed would never have been done."7 In a much later history of the
                    County, a yet more generous view of those involved in the unfortunate affair of 1824 is taken:
                        
                        While the murders were no doubt, atrocious, it might be well to mingle a little charity in
                            behalf of the unfortunate killers. It has been asserted that relatives of Hudson [Harper?]
                            had been killed by Indians in 
                                Ohio
                            . It had also been asserted that the Indians had promised not to lay their traps
                            in the immediate vicinity of the white men's cabins, the whites naturally looking
                            on outside trappers as intruders on their trapping ground. The period was a stressful one,
                            fraught with great dangers to the handful of white settlers. The memory of Indian attacks
                            was fresh in the minds of some, and there was, at that time, a constant feeling of
                            apprehension of danger from Indian sources. No doubt, the executions were justified, yet in
                            the light of collateral elements that in- 
                        
                           5 Edgar W. Hassler, Old Westmorland.
                        
                        
                           6 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                                        Sketches (1858), 179.
                        
                           7 John L. Forkner and Byron H. Dyson, Historical
                                        Sketches and Reminiscences of 
                                            Madison county
                                        
                            (1897), 777.
                     
                             trude themselves it is well at this time to throw the
                            mantle of charity over the unfortunate culprits.8
                  
                    
            
            Indiana was a very young state, and mortally afraid of the Indians. She was also afraid of the Indian
                    Agents who were at last becoming very active in protecting the Indians in order to keep them
                    peaceful. It is a well known fact that redmen from all over the state were brought in by the
                    Government to witness the executions of 1824-5. The Agent pointed out to them repeatedly that it was
                    thus the Great White Father punished their enemies. An Indian's life was protected but it
                    was a long time before it was valued by anyone but himself. It seems to have been the irony of fate
                    that the men who were executed in 1825, were punished for a deed that had not before been considered
                    a crime by many pioneers, regardless of the laws.
            There are many of the descendants of the men who were condemned to death at Pendleton living in
                    Indiana. Although the Bridge family returned to 
                        Ohio
                     for a time following the death of their father, four of the sons of the unfortunate
                    John Townsend Bridge later settled in Indiana and reared respected families. Among the four who
                    returned to the Hoosier State was the son John who was pardoned by Governor Brown just in the nick
                    of time. He was an excellent citizen who lived to a ripe age, much loved and revered by the
                    community where he resided.9 Although a favorite fireside tale was how
                    "Uncle Johnny" came close to being hanged, nobody held it against him that he had
                    taken part in such a massacre. A generation or so ago they better understood the historical setting.
            
               
                  8
                        Centennial History of 
                                Madison county
                            
                   I, 79.
               
                  9
                        Editor's note: John Bridge, who was pardoned at the last moment by
                        Governor James 
                            Brown
                         Ray, lived at Delphi, Indiana, for many years. He was an excellent citizen
                        respected by everyone. His son, Jacob Bridge, and grandson, Will F. Bridge, were my personal
                        acquaintances. Jacob Bridge was a lifelong friend of my father. I do not be lieve that my father
                        ever knew that John Townsend Bridge, the grandfather of Jacob Bridge, was hanged for his part in
                        the killing of Indians. I am sure that I never heard the story during my youth, James and
                        Joseph, two other sons of John Townsend Bridge, settled in 
                            Carroll County
                         where they played well their parts in their respective communities and reared fine
                        families. The writer of the above paper is a great-granddaughter of John Townsend Bridge and a
                        grand-daughter of James Bridge, brother of John Bridge.—W. O. L.
            
         
         
         
            Manuscripts in Indiana State Library
            BY Mildred C. Stoler
            The Indiana State Library, which has the state historical collection, has in recent months received a
                    number of valuable manuscript collections which are now ready for use by the research student.
            The largest and most valuable addition is the Lucius B. Swift Collection, which was placed in the
                    Library by Mrs. Ella Lyon Swift. This comprises some 1200 letters received and written by Lucius B.
                    Swift, civil service reformer of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It covers the years 1850 to 1929, but the main body of the collection begins with
                    1855. About 200 of the letters, among them those by William Howard Taft, Albert J. Beveridge and a
                    few by Theodore Roosevelt, are to be sealed for a time. With this exception the collection is
                    available to research students working on political questions, civil service reform or the attitude
                    of the American people toward 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        England
                     from 1914 to 1917 and toward other questions of foreign policy during those years.
                    Among his many correspondents may be mentioned here the civil service reformers Carl Schurz, Charles
                    J. Bonaparte, who served in President Roosevelt's cabinet, Richard H. Dana, author and
                    lawyer, George W. Curtis, President of the Civil Service Reform League, Presidents Roosevelt and
                    Taft, Senators Beveridge and Henry Cabot Lodge, Vice President Charles W. Fairbanks and George
                    Kennan, writer on Russia and 
                        Japan
                    .
            Garvin M. Brown and Austin H. Brown, both of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , have presented to the Library the papers of their grandfather, Austin H. Brown. Mr.
                    Brown was a prominent figure among politicians of 
                        Marion County
                     for thirty years following his acquisition of the Indiana State
                    Sentinel in 1850. This group of more than 600 manuscripts dating from 1830 to 1901 will be
                    useful in the study of economic, social and political history. Letters written by students of
                    Indiana Asbury University (now DePauw University) in 1845 show that college boys of that generation
                    resented restraint no less than those of today. Life in a mining camp in 
                        Montana
                     Territory in the eighties is pictured in letters of Austin H. Brown, Jr., who was sent
                    west to get his start in life. Besides the manuscripts  there is
                    an interesting scrapbook containing clippings on 
                        Indianapolis
                     theatricals and other topics.
            James H. Luther, prominent citizen of 
                        Crown Point
                    , Indiana, sent four sons to fight for the Union during the Civil War. He preserved 148
                    letters which they wrote to him from the battle fields of 
                        Virginia
                     as well as nearly 300 others which he received from 1865 to 1889. One letter gives an
                    excellent picture of Ulysses S. Grant as seen through a soldier's eyes and another
                    describes the famous battle of the Monitor and the Merrimac. Other subjects dealt with are politics,
                    spiritualism, social life and economic conditions.
            A small but exceedingly interesting group of letters written by the Englishmen, Samuel and Christian
                    Heineken, who were seeking a suitable location in the 
                        United States
                     for a new home, was presented by Miss Emma Byfield, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The letters dating from 1810 to 1832 describe living conditions in 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    , as well as communities of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . There are pertinent comments on slavery in 
                        New Orleans
                    , the settlement made by Morris Birk-beck and George Flower in 
                        Illinois
                     and Robert Owen's experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Some years ago Miss Byfield placed a Civil War Diary kept by her grandfather, Samuel
                    Heineken, in the Library.
            The Adam Crosier Collection of ninety-nine pieces touches on economic conditions, the Civil War,
                    means of traveling, medical practice, politics in Indiana, and a land boom near Indian Territory in
                    1887. The letters covers the years 1853 to 1889 and were written to Adam Crosier, a southern Indiana
                    farmer.
            Mrs. W. H. Matthew of Gary has placed in the Library her husband's papers consisting of
                    manuscript indexes to a number of volumes of the Acts of Indiana and court
                    decisions. There are also notes on the Potawattomi Indians which he had made in the expectation of
                    writing an account for publication.
            Louis W. Knobe, 
                        Johnson County
                     soldier, who served in the Union army from 1861 to 1863, describes in his diary the
                    battles of Pea Ridge, Magnolia Hill, Champion Hill and the
                    final drive on Vicksburg. Mrs. Isabelle Tallman of Milwaukee is the donor.
            Twenty-six letters from the correspondence of Richard W. Thompson, Secretary of Navy in the cabinet
                    of President  Hayes, obtained recently, supplement a collection
                    of twenty-three letters already in the Library. The entire group dates from 1818 to 1899 and deals
                    largely with political issues with side lights on topics such as the bank failures in 
                        Kentucky
                     and the westward migration of 1819. There is also a charming little diary kept daily
                    for the first two months of 1838 by a young wife and mother, who gives us glimpses of her home
                    duties and pleasures. The author was probably Mrs. Richard W. Thompson.
            The Library has had photostated a large number of letters written by men engaged in the Indiana
                    missionary field from 1825 to 1835. The originals are in a collection of the papers of the American
                    Home Missionary Society owned by the 
                        Chicago
                     Theological Seminary. These letters are for the most part written to Rev. Absalom
                    Peters, Corresponding Secretary of the society and give quarterly reports on the status of
                    Presbyterian churches in all parts of Indiana, together with frequent comments on the activities of
                    other churches, conditions of travel and the lack of education among the people. These furnish a
                    wealth of information on early Indiana Presbyterian-ism. Caleb Mills, Isaac Reed and John Finley
                    Crowe are some well-known men whose names appear in the collection.
            A photostatic copy of the diary of Dr. Asahel Clapp, pioneer New 
                        Albany
                     physician, has also been made. This diary, kept from 1819 to 1862, not only describes
                    the cases he was called to attend and the remedies administered but also records the weather and
                    gives accounts of botanical trips which he took. The Bureau of Publicity of the Indiana State
                    Medical Association helped defray the expense of the work, and its aid in the task of gathering and
                    preserving source material for the medical history of Indiana is very commendable.
            Eleven autograph letters of James Whitcomb Riley, mounted and beautifully bound, were recently
                    acquired.
            Jens Christian Bay of 
                        Chicago
                     is the donor of two documents pertaining to underground railroad activities in Indiana
                    before the Civil War. The one is the 
                        Decatur County
                     Grand Jury's bill of indictment against Luther A. Donne11 for harboring a
                    runaway slave' from 
                        Kentucky
                    ; the other, issued in July, 1849, sixteen months later, is a warrant from the 
                        Decatur
                     Circuit Court summoning witnesses in the case.
            The Schuyler Colfax collection (1778-1926) has been placed  in
                    the Library by Mrs. Harold C. Townson, a granddaughter of Colfax. A number of letters written in
                    1841 voice complaints of the depression and Tyler's Bank vetoes and reveal the hostile
                    feeling toward 
                        England
                     arising from the McLeod case in 
                        New York
                    . Other topics dealt with are politics (1841-68) and the attitude of Union army officers
                    towards the Emancipation Proclamation. The collection numbers over 200 items and consists of papers
                    belonging to Colfax's grandfather, letters written to Schuyler Colfax, and papers belonging
                    to his son and granddaughter.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE REMOVAL
                    OF
                    THE STATE CAPITAL
                    TO INDIANAPOLIS Foreword
            BY MILDRED C. STOLER
            
            The author of the following account relating to the removal of the state capital from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a participant in the event, At that time she was Miss Mary Catherine Anderson, of 
                        Vevay
                    , daughter of Robert Anderson, a Revolutionary War soldier, and Catherine (Dumont)
                    Anderson. In 1818 Samuel Merrill, a young lawyer of 
                        Vevay
                    , had married her sister, Lydia Jane. When he was elected state treasurer he moved to
                    Corydon and to him fell the task of moving the stout treasury box and the other goods and chattels
                    of the government to the new capital. Mary Catherine and her brother, William Anderson, apparently
                    decided to share their sister's fortunes in the wilderness capital and so joined the little
                    party conducted by Mr. Merrill.
            Only two years later, in 1826, Mary Catherine married Isaac Naylor, a veteran of many Indian battles
                    including the famous action at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . His account of that battle was published in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 11, 163-169. His autobiography also appeared in the Magazine,
                    IV, 134-140. In 1833 they moved to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     where Mr. Naylor quickly became active in civic affairs. A few years later he began his
                    long service as a circuit judge.
            Mrs. Naylor's account is more detailed than that of Samuel Merrill, which is
                    reprinted here from Jacob Piatt Dunn's Greater 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                (1,75-6) for purposes of comparison. The Indiana State Library has a copy of
                    Mrs. Naylor's narrative. The original is in the possession of her granddaughters, Miss
                    Flora Naylor Hay and Mrs. Wirt E. Humphrey.
            [MRS. NAYLOR'S ACCOUNT]
            
                    It was a bright and lovely day in October,1 1824, that we left Corydon for
                        the seat of government. The party consisted of six of the Merrill family, Mr. Merrill, my
                        sister, and their three children, my brother William and this scribbler. My sister had heard
                        that the road most of 
                     
                        1 Mr. Merrill gives the month as November in a report made in
                                January, 1827, on the times when he had been absent from his office. House
                                    Journal, 11th Sess., 1826, p, 484.
                  
                         the way was impassible; she insisted that Mr. Siebert,2 a large man with a team of horses, none stronger in Indiana, should take
                        us. Four of the horses were white, the fifth gray, called the lead horse. Mr. Siebert was proud
                        of his horses, well he might be. I have, I think, never seen as grand a team. Yet I could not
                        ride in the wagon, as it was covered, and made me sick; but my sister and her children rode all
                        the way to 
                            Indianapolis
                        . I walked the eleven miles of our first day's journey.
                    The house where we spent the first night was a good looking frame house. I think the landlord had
                        a saw mill near. Here I must digress a little. Mr. John Douglass was State Printer at that time
                        and they moved with us. Mrs. Douglass had three children. They rode in their wagon all the way.
                        Mr. Douglass had a horse that he rode. They had a cow tied to the back of the wagon. When the
                        roads became very bad, they loosed the cow, and she was sure to run to the woods. I would mount
                        his horse and ride for the cow, and bring her back. Well, I will return to that first night.
                    When we entered the house, Mrs. Douglass, being very tired, from holding her babe, laid him on
                        the bed. The woman screamed: "Take that child off my bed, for it has the
                        itch." We all felt indignant and yet felt funny, for Mrs. Douglass always kept her
                        little ones clean, of all skin diseases. Part of us slept on the floor.
                    The young lady of the house had a young man visiting her. They sat up late in the room that we
                        were huddled in. They sat by the fire all night on opposite sides of the fireplace, never moving
                        up. He wore a coon-skin [cap] with the tail attached, and little Jane Merrill thought he was a
                        bear. Not a word was spoken by either of the lovers; they only gazed at each other.
                    We were, I think, ten days on our way.3 The treasury box was large and
                        strong. Whether there was much money in it, I cannot say; but I think not much. This box had to
                        have a place in this large wagon, indeed wherever we or the Merrill family went, this box was
                        sure to go. I do not remember about stopping at night after the first night. I presume we did. I
                        know my sister looked very tired. She had the care of the children in the wagon. The youngest
                        one, Catharine, whenever she would see me, would put out her hands for me to take her. I would
                        carry her awhile. She did not like the jolting, and she may have been sick. 1 was too sick when
                        riding to take any care of the children; but they were as good as could be. They did not cry.
                    The road was laid with rails or logs for miles, then covered with water that seemed bottomless.
                        When the horses and wagon would go down, it seemed they might have reached 
                            China
                        . At such times, my sister would scream with fright. One day we traveled two miles
                        and a half only, The water lay in the road too deep to venture in and trees had to be felled to
                        make a road around. Once, Mr. Douglass's wagon stuck fast, and had to be pried out. The
                        next morning after traveling that short distance, Mr. Merrill said when we were ready to start;
                        looking back to 
                     
                        2 Spelled Seybert in the bill for expenses of
                                the journey presented to the legislature by Mr. Merrill. Senate
                                Journal, 9th Sess., 1825, p. 7.
                     
                        3 Mr. Merrill says two weeks in the account reprinted from
                                Dunn's Greater 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . In the report referred to in Note 1, he states that he was absent
                                from his office fifteen days on this occasion.
                  
                         where we had started the day before: "Suppose we
                        go back and take a fresh start." However, we journeyed forward.
                    I walked all the way, only when we came near 
                            Columbus
                        , as it was raining; which it did after the first day almost every day. When near 
                            Columbus
                        , Mr. Merrill insisted on my riding in the wagon; the first thing I knew he lifted
                        me into the wagon. I sat there until we reached the hotel, which looked fine with a handsome
                        sign. We had a tolerable supper. Mr. Siebert declared the tea was made of the water that eggs
                        had been cooked in.
                    I do not remember how we were dressed. I know we were quite decent looking when we reached 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
                    Mr. Siebert had a fashion of putting bells on his horses whenever we came near a town. We begged
                        him to leave them off when he drove into 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; but he wouldn't consent. So we went into the seat of government with
                        fine, large, strong horses strung will bells, all ringing. The sound brought the good people out
                        to stare at us. I was glad to be in a covered wagon at that time. We all stopped at Blake
                        & Henderson's Hotel, where we had an excellent supper; and we certainly did
                        justice to it. We went that night to a room (frame) without lathing or plastering. The weather
                        had become cold, so that it was not easy to keep warm although we had a rousing fire.
                    Mr. Merrill had rented a cottage on West 
                            Washington
                         street, but Mr. Calvin Fletcher was living in it, and couldn't move out
                        for some time; for he could not find an empty house. So he offered us a room, there being but
                        two rooms in the house. We took the one farthest from a summer kitchen. For us to get into this
                        kitchen we had to go out of the front door, and then either climb a rail fence or pass through
                        Mrs. Fletcher's room. In our room we had the treasury box. One morning my sister took
                        up the ashes from the fireplace in the kitchen, putting them in a barrel, embers being in the
                        ashes, burning slowly all day. In the night, I awoke from the light shining on me, and the
                        kitchen burned with its contents. Everything was carried out of the house into the middle of 
                            Washington
                         street with a clean deep snow to rest on while the fire was put out. However, in a
                        few weeks, Mr. Fletcher moved out, and we felt as if we were living in a mansion. I think we
                        were as happy with our surroundings as we are now.
                    
                  
                            Crawfordsville
                        , August 24, 1888.
                    Mary Catherine Naylor
                
            [THE ACCOUNT OF SAMUEL MERRILL]
            
                    The journey of about one hundred and sixty miles occupied two weeks. The best day's
                        travel was eleven miles. One day the wagons accomplished but two miles, passages through the
                        woods having to be cut on account of the impassable character of the road. Four four-horse
                        wagons and one or two saddle horses formed the means of conveyance for the two families,
                        consisting of about a dozen persons, and for a printing press and the state treasury of silver
                        in strong wooden boxes. The gentlemen slept in the wagons or on the ground to protect the
                        silver, the families found shelter at night in log cabins which stood along the road at rare
                        though not inconvenient intervals. The country people  were,
                        many of them, as rude as their dwellings, which usually consisted of but one room, serving for
                        all the purposes of domestic life,—cooking, eating, sleeping, spinning and weaving,
                        and the entertainment of company. At one place a young man, who perhaps had come miles to visit
                        his sweetheart, sat up with her all night on the only vacant space in the room, the hearth of
                        the big fireplace. He kept on his cap, which was of coonskin, the tail hanging down behind, and
                        gave the children the impression that he was a bear.4
               
                
         
         
            LETTERS OF PRIVATES COOK AND BALL
            
            Introduction1
            
            The writer of the letters here printed, Charles N, Cook, was born and reared in Williamstown, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where his father was a shoemaker and a small farmer. In the spring of 1853, when
                    twenty-three years of age, he set out for 
                        California
                     with the hope of making his fortune. An older brother, Edward Cook, who lived in the
                    new state, made that distant frontier seem less remote. The young adventurer, instead of making the
                    trip by land, chose the water route by way of the Isthmus of Panama, at that time very widely
                    advertised, although the isthmian railroad had not yet been built.
            No record of the trip remains save that his brother met him at 
                        San Francisco
                     and together they went to Stockton where the older brother had staked out a claim.
                    Evidently the gold did not "pan out" very well for the young fortune hunter. A
                    letter written to his father and mother on October 28, 1853, shows him somewhat disillusioned and
                    homesick but still hopeful of making his "pile".2 He then
                    expected to remain from two to five years, but he was back in his Berkshire
                    Hills by the return of cold weather in the fall of 1854. Sixteen months of 
                        California
                     was enough. Like many another ambitious youth of his generation he left more gold in 
                        California
                     than he took away.
            Two years later the wanderlust seized him and again he went West but to a more settled country this
                    time. His oldest 
                  
                     4 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 76-76.
                  
                     1 The original copies of many letters written by Privates Charles N.
                            Cook end Layette Bell during the Civil War are in the possession of Mrs. John Hodge of
                                    
                        Oxford. Ohio
                     , a daughter of the former. Most of the letters
                            in the collection were written to Margaret Ball by Private Cook while in the army. A few
                            months after 
                                Appomattox
                            . the returned veteran married Miss Bell. The Rev. H. A. Smith. a
                            graduate-instructor at Miami University during 1950-1981, caused copies of the
                            correspondence to be prepared which he carefully checked. Credit for the introduction and
                            other explanatory matter also belongs to Mr. Smith, the Editor having made
                            only such modifications end added such comment as was rendered necessary by the omission of
                            various letters or parts of letters.
                  
                     2 Charles N. Cook to his father and mother, Nicholus (
                                California
                            ), Oct. 28, 1858.
               
                     brother, Allison H. Cook, had settled in 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, to which place Charles repaired. A letter written by Allison Cook to his
                    mother, in 1854, gives a rare and accurate account of the cholera plague in the middle west during
                    that fateful year.3 In the summer of 1856, about six-weeks after Charles arrived
                    at 
                        Logansport
                    , his brother, Allison died, a victim, not of the dreaded cholera, but of typhoid fever.
                    Charles remained in the vicinity of 
                        Logansport
                     where he worked for different farmers and market gardners finally acquiring some
                    desirable land and setting up for himself. He raised garden produce, small fruits and kept bees.
            Then came the Civil War. President Lincoln's call for volunteers, in July of 1862, met with
                    an indifferent response in some sections of Indiana and 3000 men remained to be drafted in order to
                    complete the quota for the state. Each township was apportioned its share with the provision that
                    further volunteers would reduce the number to be drafted. On August 11th, Charles N. Cook
                    volunteered and exchanged his overalls and hoe for the blue uniform and rifle of a private soldier.
                    Evenually he was assigned to the 99th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, Company K. and served three
                    years in that regiment and company.
            In training camp, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Cook became the bunk-mate of a youth from 
                        Logansport
                     by the name of 
                        Lafayette
                     Ball. One day when Ball was writing to his sister Margaret, Cook expressed a wish to
                    write to her also although he had never met her. He was known to Miss Ball by reputation and the
                    request for permission to write to her was granted. His first message was a few lines written at the
                    end of the brother's next letter. This was answered promptly. There followed a long and,
                    most of the time, a very happy correspondence. The letters which were written in camp, while on the
                    march and even during quiet intervals on the battle field were preserved. The collection, now in the
                    possession of the daughter of Charles N. Cook, Mrs. John Hodge of 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , contains
                    some letters written by 
                        Lafayette
                     Ball and some that were written to his parents by Cook and which later passed into his
                    hands again
            The romance, which began in the training camp at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , finally ended happily. After the war was over, when 
                  
                     3 Allison H. Cook to his father and mother, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, Oct. 80, 1854.
               
                     "Johnny came marching home", Private Cook
                    returned to 
                        Logansport
                    . This was in the fall of 1865. In February, 1866, Charles N. Cook and Margaret Ball
                    were married. They lived all their lives on a farm in the vicinity of 
                        Logansport
                    . In 1897 Mrs. Cook died, but the veteran with the incurable diseases contracted during
                    the war lived to be 90 years of age. He died in 1920 at the home of his daughter, Mrs. John Hodge,
                    near 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               .
            [
                        Lafayette
                     Ball to Margaret Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Joe Reynolds [
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ],
                           
                                    Oct 21st '62
                                
                        Dear Sister Marg.
                        Last night at 8 oclock our reg. (99th) recd orders to proceed at
                                    once to 
                                        Kentucky
                                     consequently the camp was all astir as usual on such occasions, the
                                    busy hum and bustle of preparations was heard on all sides, the cooks were busy
                                    preparing a midnight meal, the soldiers were packing their knapsacks. at about 11
                                    oclock the drums were beat the ranks were formed, the rolls called and the gay 99th with the exception of two companies were on
                                    their way to the depot. I belong to one of companies that remained behind. we will
                                    probably follow on after the regt tomorrow & we expect soon to be in the
                                    land of the traitors. the reason we stoped behind was in order to get our company
                                    filled up & get mustered in. there is a prospect that we will get 25 men
                                    from camp Sullivan.
                        Oct. 24th I laid aside this letter a few days in order to ascertain
                                    when we were to leave for the south. we were disappointed in getting the men
                                    & how long we will have to remain here I cannot tell but probably two or
                                    three weeks. we expect to be moved to a comfortable situation tomorrow or next day.
                                    it is about a mile and a half from here. I am getting along very well. my health is
                                    very good only I feel a little like the ague today, we have had some pretty frosty
                                    nights the past week & we feel the need of beds, yet I suppose we will have
                                    to get used to it. I recd your letter yesterday & was very glad to hear from
                                    home once more. Now Marg. cant you write a little oftener. I want you to write soon
                                    as you get this. Charles C. [Cook] has his bunk with me & asks me [to] give
                                    his respects to my sister, & says if he was acquainted he would put in a few
                                    lines. O Marg. you cannot think what a wicked place a camp is. it seems as if young
                                    men lose all respect [for] themselves & their maker, at a time when they
                                    ought to reflect & consider their ways & have impressed on their
                                    minds the awful realities of an endless eternity, they are most reckless &
                                    careless. O time what art thou & Death what canst thou give that poor frail
                                    mortals like us should exchange for thee an inheritance incorruptible & that
                                    fadeth not away. O that we might comprehend it & learn to love &
                                    adore the great creator, & that I may never be led to profane his holy name
                                    but rather to speak his name in prayer & praise. in camp one is surrounded
                                    by a great many temptations & if he has not strength given from him on high
                                    it will be impossible  to resist. I have no more
                                    to write at present, please answer this soon as you can & direct as before
                                    in care of Capt. Julian.
                        
                                    From your affectionate Brother
                                    
                              
                                            LaFayette
                                         Ball
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Ball to his Sister]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington [
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ]
                           
                                    Nov. 11th 1862
                                
                        Dear Sister Marg.
                        We are now in our winter quarters. still this does not imply that it is to be our
                                    home for the coming winter. I would it might. we left camp Joe Reynolds yesterday.
                                    this is a new camp situated on a beautiful rise of ground commanding a fine view of
                                    the city and surrounding country, the barracks are very comfortable, much more so
                                    than those we formerly occupied. they are divided into rooms about 16 feet square
                                    each of which are occupied by 25 men. there is also a stove for each room &
                                    one window, the bunks are three deep and two sleep in each, we now have plenty of
                                    straw & sleep very comfortable. how long we will stop is a matter of
                                    uncertainty. a soldier knows not the hour he may be called upon to strap his
                                    knapsack to his back & take up a line of march. I feel more than ever a
                                    soldier's life is one of great sacrifice. still I cannot regret the step I
                                    have taken. if heaven born liberty is worth no self denial to maintain it it is
                                    worth nothing. I have no reason to complain we have not as yet been called upon to
                                    suffer much hardship. the weather still continues beautiful. it is very smoky. I
                                    think we may look for cold weather soon, our company is not yet full and nothing has
                                    been done since I returned. Bill Jones came into camp yesterday. last night two of
                                    the boys deserted & if something is not done soon halfe of them will leave.
                                    I will stay here until the result is known. I wish I had some of those fine apples
                                    you spoke of. they would be quite a luxury in camp. we had a great time after the
                                    boys got back as starved set of mortals as you ever saw. the cook was too slow for
                                    their appetites so every one grabbed for himself. the cook got mad &
                                    wouldn't serve & each one turned cook for himself, you would have
                                    laughed to see the fun. some got double rations & others none. I am happy to
                                    say our cook is reinstated in his laudable occupation & in order that
                                    justice may be done each one draws his daily ration of bread. I hoped to have some
                                    encouraging news in reference to our company to write in this but have not. we will
                                    know in a few days what disposal is to be made with us. I think we will be disbanded
                                    & go into other regiments or home at our own option. I will go home
                                    & feel justified in it. we was deceived in the first place & have
                                    been ever since & now I think they have forfeited all claim to us. I have no
                                    more to write at present. you may expect to hear from me in a few days soon as our
                                    com[pany] is mustered or disbanded. write soon as you receive this, once more
                                    farewell from your affecate bro.
                        
                                    
                              
                                            Lafayette
                                         Ball
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sister
                        
                           
                                        Lafayette
                                     and I are well. he has kindly offered a little space for me. I hope you
                                    will not look upon it as an intrusion, I once had a sister, an only sister. death
                                    came & with its relentless grasp summoned her to the skies. she is an angel
                                    now. how my heart strings quiver as I think of her. she was lovely [—?]
                        Far away among the hills of old Berkshire is my native home, around it are clustered
                                    the objects of my greatest affections. I am a stranger in a strange land &
                                    need a friend.
                        
                                    C.N.C. [Cook]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Charles N. Cook to Margaret Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                    Nov. 16, 1862
                                
                        Miss Margaret
                        Shall I open the few words I desire to write & send you with an apology? I
                                    trust your liberality of feeling will not demand it. we have hitherto been
                                    strangers. is that any reason why [we] should be so in the future ? I think not.
                                    perhaps I am breaking the ordinary rules of formalities. I hate formalities, give me
                                    the outgushings of an honest heart, give me a being whose soul is unblemished with
                                    vain pride and whose mind is pure & who cares not for the scandal of the
                                    world. one who loves the works of nature & loves to look up from nature to
                                    nature's God. there is such a friend I want.
                        Camp life does not suit we very well. I have not been used to hear so much profanity.
                                    to hear the name of Him who created us & gives us our being in whom we are
                                    dependent for every breath & the numberless blessings we are enjoying. He
                                    who came down from Heaven to live & suffer & die that there might be
                                    open for us a fountain that whoever drinks therof may obtain Eternal
                                    life…. your brother will send you a letter soon & I will leave
                                    all the camp news for him to write. we are well with the exception of bad colds
                                    caused by being exposed to the night air we will probably be mustered in this week
                                    & soon be ordered off to the south.
                        Hoping these few lines will be acceptable to you & that you will be my friend
                                    & trusting a kind 
                                        Providence
                                     to carry me safe through this war & that I may some day be
                                    personally acquainted with you I say farewell.
                        
                                    From one who is disposed to be your friend.
                                    C.N.C. [Cook]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Fragment of letter from Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        spread out before us I feel we have a great deal to be thankful for & it
                                    would be wrong to complain. Oh how dark & fearful is the prospect of the new
                                    year that is soon to dawn upon us, how many of us will live to tell the sad tale of
                                    war & desolation that threatens us, God only knows, we are in his hands, he
                                    can protect us & shield us from all harm if are  at peace with him nothing can harm our souls, though
                                    the wicked kill the body they have no power harm the soul. Several hundred of
                                    paroled prisoners just went past our camp to camp Noble. they just arrived from the
                                    south. Our prospects for whipping the rebels is not very encouraging at present [end
                                    of 18621. there are too many of them in our very midst, even in this camp several of
                                    them were detected in a plot to take possession of our guns but the scamps are caged
                                    & hope they will be severely dealt with. I wish this war might end and we be
                                    permitted to go to our homes. I am glad to say there is less profanity in our
                                    quarters than formerly as some of the worst of our company are absent and there are
                                    three or four that I never want to see again.
                        Perhaps you will be interested to know that we had a good Christmas dinner thanks to
                                    the ladies. It is the first donation we have had since we first went into camp to my
                                    remembrance I have often wished we were encamped in 
                                        Logansport
                                     I know we would have had a shower of presents there are so many
                                    soldiers here it has got to be an old story. if we were near 
                                        Logansport
                                     we would be near our friends.
                        Now Maggie I have not stoped to study the proprity of again writing to you before
                                    getting an answer from my last yet I have the pleasure to know it was kindly red I
                                    have no claims of the least notice on your part to my letters as I must plead guilty
                                    as an intruder yet my intentions are innocent from any dishonest purpose. Every
                                    thing comes from an honest heart.
                        
                                    [Charles N. Cook]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                    Jan. 25th 1863
                                
                        Dear Maggie:
                        I am going to sit down this afternoon and enjoy the privelege of penning you a few
                                    lines. Oh it is so kind in you to notice my poor letters, my heart flows with
                                    gratitude. I want to thank you for the picture I think a great deal of it &
                                    I would not part with it for anything. the other present was very acceptable we dont
                                    get such nice things in camp very often. I hope to be fortunate enough to get a wife
                                    that can make cakes & pies as nice, but I want one that has a sweet
                                    & lovely disposition for she will be my main dependence for society. when I
                                    was a boy under my father's roof I used to spend most of my time at home
                                    & sought the enjoyments of home. now I am a thousand miles away from those
                                    familiar scenes. my only sister has long since been called to the skies, she had a
                                    lovely disposition. the elder of my only two brothers died in 
                                        Logansport
                                     in the spring of 1856, & my only brother not quite two years
                                    older than myself joined the army on the Potomac & has been lost to us since
                                    early in the month of March & my dear parents have no child but me. Now
                                    Maggie you will not wonder I sometimes get lonely & sad. you will not wonder
                                    I want to find "some kindred spirit fitly strung to echo back the tones of
                                    mine".
                        Maggie I want to see you very much & if we stop here long enough I will try
                                    to get a furlough & visit you. I came near going the last time, but thought
                                    it best to wait until I got well, my eyes are very weak yet,  otherwise I am well, I dont think we will leave here
                                    for some time, some troops are needed at home to keep down the traitors at home. I
                                    have an idea this war will be over soon. The boys got back safe & sound only
                                    Carter. his mumps are not as well & he went over to the hospital. Laf.
                                    [Ball] was rather tired when he got to camp he bunked with me last night…
                                    it is rather airey to sleep on a board with a small handful of straw & only
                                    one thickness of blanket under you. you know we soldiers dont get things as nice
                                    here as at home. I shall want to hear you play some nice tunes on the accordion when
                                    I come to see you. you may depend I will come if I can. if any of the home guard
                                    should ask you to marry them, tell such ones that you are waiting for a
                                        soldier. forgive me for such an expression I mean no harm.
                        I want to hear from you again soon. you can find enough to write any thing from you
                                    will interest me. give my best respects to you father & mother &
                                    remember me.
                        
                                    With love I remain your friend
                                    Chas N. Cook
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington,
                           
                                    
                              Feby 8th 1863
                                
                        My Dear Friend
                        Maggie It is with feelings of great pleasure I sit down to drop you a few lines this
                                    afternoon. yours of Jany 30th was kindly recd today. I will try to
                                    tell you something of our prospects for the future. the dark clouds that have so
                                    long shut out the bright sunbeams of our once happy existence now and then nearly
                                    overwhelming us with a fearful forbodings of the future seems for the present to be
                                    gradually dispelled…
                        It is not natural for man to run into danger unless a sense of duty leads him to it,
                                    & if Uncle Sam should conclude to keep our company here for the protection
                                    of our own homes it would be far better for us than the hardships of a southern
                                    campaign. I know that you would rejoice to hear that your dear brother had escaped
                                    the exposures of disease & in a measure the bullets of southern traitors.
                        The reason that I have thus written is that at the present time there seems to be a
                                    little prospect that we will be assigned to the 63 d Regt & kept here to
                                    guard rebel prisoners or government property. Yet it is a matter of uncertainity. we
                                    must wait & time will soon reveal to us the future & we must be
                                    prepared to for wherever duty calls.
                        Once more has our camp been called upon to be in readiness for an expected skirmish.
                                    last sunday night as I got home from church I found the boys all astir loading their
                                    guns, orders were given from head quarters for every man to sleep with his gun
                                    loaded & his clothes on. the reason for this was the arrest of nine
                                    prisoners in Morgan Co. [Indiana] by a company of cavalry from our camp who went out
                                    there for the purpose of bringing back some 40 deserters of the 1st Cavalry who are
                                    traitors in principle & had combined with some citizens of the same stamp
                                    for the purpose of resisting the laws. it was by some expected an attempt would be
                                    made to release the prisoners who were confined in the  guard house of this camp. squads of soldiers were
                                    stationed at the most accesible points of the camp on Sunday night, but no
                                    disturbance took place. another squad of Cavalry have gone to Morgan [Co.] to arrest
                                    the balance of the rebels.
                        I will not commence this last page with camp items. there are things I would like to
                                    write but do not feel at liberty. if we should happen to stop here any considerable
                                    length of time I may get a chance to go to Logan [
                                        Logansport
                                    ] & perhaps to make you a visit. I expect we will get our bounty
                                    soon. your brother will write soon.
                        With a wish that you may have health & happiness I remain your affate friend.
                        
                                    Chas. N. Cook
                                
                        P. S. Write soon as convenient.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Ball to his Sister]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Morton [
                                    Indianapolis
                                 ]
                           
                                    
                              Mch 8th 1863.
                                
                        My Dear Sister
                        I suppose you are looking for a letter from me by this time so I will sit down
                                    & write you a few lines this afternoon. we are geting along very well
                                    & are well suited with our new quarters. Our company are at premnt attached
                                    to the 71st Regt on guard duty. we did not go to the soldier's home as we
                                    expected. the duty assigned to us is the guarding of the rebel prisoners about 400
                                    in number. the guard is divided into nine reliefs each one being on duty two hours
                                    out of every 18 or one ninth of the time. I dont mind it in the daytime but to be
                                    called out of bed in the middle of the night is not very pleasant. yet we must look
                                    for some hardships. I recd your letter of the 28th of Feby
                                    & was glad to know you was all well. I was somewhat disappointed that Christ
                                    Lindament did not get back as I expected him to bring me something from home. I dont
                                    know but we will get furloughs before long. therefore I will not express any money
                                    at present until I assertain. we were paid off last friday. I think it will be some
                                    time before we leave here. I dont care how long for we are doing very well here. the
                                    weather is quite cool now I hope spring will soon open the bluebirds were singing
                                    this morning, which made it seem like spring.
                        We are not kept as close in camp as when at Camp Carrington the Col seems to be a
                                    nice man & I think if we do right he will be good to us, he says so at any
                                    rate. we are over run with rats here in camp & I dont [know] but they will
                                    take us prisoners our Lieut. caught four in an old boot. there is a bakery in camp
                                    so we get our bread fresh. all our grub is good & we cant complain our
                                    company is in 4 messes & we have two large stoves to cook by, which is much
                                    nicer than out door cooking. we have got a lovely place I know it is beautiful in
                                    summer when the leaves are on the trees. I dont know but I have told you all.
                                    Charley Cook wants to know if Christ. Lindament paid his tax yet he sent money by
                                    him if the boys see him tell them to ask him about it. I have no more at present to
                                    write. Write soon
                        
                                    From your affate Brother
                                    Lafayette Ball.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            Private Cook wrote letters to Miss Margaret Ball from Camp Morton on April 2, April 14, April 25, and
                    May 5, 1863. While at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with little to break the monotony save guard duty and drill, life was rather dull. In
                    his letter of April 14, Cook registered this complaint: "If we ever get away from this dull
                    place, I will have something to write about that will interest you but here it is nothing but drill,
                    drill. I wonder why we must have to stay here while, many or most all of our fellow
                    soldiers… are allowed the privilege of drubing the rebels and the satisfaction of getting
                    their legs and heads shot off while we are bandboxed up here as if we were too nice an article for
                    common use…." Through these weary months but two companies of the 99th Indiana
                    were detained at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the ranks of one of these (Company K), were Privates Cook and Ball. During this
                    dreary period, the love affair between Cook and the girl at 
                        Logansport
                     whom he had never seen progressed rapidly. By April 25, 1863, Cook had reached the
                    stage where he could say in all sincerity: "Maggie you are mine and I am yours and may the
                    attachment that has sprung up in each of our hearts one for the other be the germ that shall bud on
                    earth and blossom in heaven." Not long after this message was penned the two companies were
                    sent to join their regiment at Moscow, 
                        Tennessee
                    , where they arrived on May 14.4 A little over a week later, Cook
                    wrote a long letter to Miss Ball in which he tried to find some comfort in calculating the time
                    until he should be free: "Only a few short weeks more to the 14th of Aug. and our time will
                    be one third past—only two more years then to serve—& then [also] we
                    have the chance of sooner discharge."
            The last portion of this letter which was begun on May 23, was finished the next day. The young
                    soldier first saw Negro regiments at Moscow, and began to learn from personal observation something
                    about the destructiveness of war: "the devastations of war are visible on every side
                    & the boys of our regt who have but a couple of weeks since returned from a campaign of 200
                    miles through Miss. say it is the case all through the country. farms are laid waste fences are
                    burned."
            In the next letter, written on June 3, 1863, Cook mentioned 
                  
                     4 Moscow was nearly forty miles east of 
                                Memphis
                             near the 
                                Mississippi
                             line on the railroad which connected 
                                Chattanooga
                             and 
                                Memphis
                            , which was known as the 
                                Memphis
                             and Charleston R. R. Nearly fifteen miles east of Moscow the Mobile and Ohio R.
                            R., running from Cairo southward, crossed the cast and west line at La Grange, Tenn.
               
                     that during the week that had just passed, thousands of troops
                    had been carried through Moscow by train for Vicksburg, "the scene of battle and
                    bloodshed." The forces were being moved to the neighborhood of Vicksburg in order that
                    Joseph E. Johnston might not be able to attack Grant's army in the rear and furnish General
                    Pemberton a chance to escape. By June 5th, the brigade to which the 99th Indiana belonged was making
                    ready to move from MOSCOW, 
                        Tennessee
                    , toward Vicksburg, and the transfer was begun the next morning.
            [Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 12th 1863.
                                    
                              In Camp at Haines Bluffs, Miss
                           
                                
                        Dear Margaret:
                        Here we are at last safely landed far away on the southeastern shore of [the]
                                        Miss.5 the dim and distant northern horizon only points to
                                    us the direction of the homes & loved ones we left far behind. how
                                    instinctively with lightening speed does the mind retrace the the long distance that
                                    now lies betwixt us & those we love. knowing that you are anxiously waiting
                                    for tidings from your friend & brother I will embrace this my first
                                    opportunity of writing to you & give you a little outline of our trip down
                                    the river. The same evening I sent your last letter just one week ago today, several
                                    regts of infantry & batterys came into Moscow from above & started
                                    on with us the next morning for the river. we had to walk thru as there was not
                                    transportation for us. it took two days, Saturday and Sunday. & it was the
                                    hottest Sunday's work I ever did. our feet were pretty lame when we got
                                    through. the distance we walked was 40 miles. we were fortunate enough to get our
                                    knapsacks hauled. on Sunday we camped on the edge of 
                                        Memphis
                                     about a mile & halfe from the river. we reached this camping
                                    ground in the middle of the afternoon & remained there until one oclock on
                                    Monday when we marched on to the river & went aboard the steam boat here we
                                    found Chris Lindament & two other of our boys who had just come down the
                                    river in time to go on with us. the landings were full of boats waiting to take
                                    soldiers down the river [
                                        Mississippi
                                    ] we went aboard on Monday afternoon but did not start until the next
                                    day about noon. the time seemed short as we had much to see that was interesting.
                                    the loading of the boats with wagons stores camon amunition etc. each boat took a
                                    regt & some took two. there were 13 boats in our fleet. the time occupied in
                                    coming down was from tuesday noon until thursday about three in the afternoon when
                                    we landed near where we are now. we are about 12 miles up the Yazoo
                                    river & about 400 [?] from 
                                        Memphis
                                    . you see we are a long way from old sweet Logan [
                                        Logansport
                                    ]. Nothing of much import happened on the trip down. we met with no
                                    opposition not a shot was fired into us from the shore one or two gunboats escorted
                                    us past the most dangerous points & 
                              
                                 5 Haines Bluffs wan northwest of Vicksburg on the
                                                Yazoo River a short distance from the 
                                                Mississippi
                                            .
                           
                                     in one instance poured a broadside volley into
                                    the timber but no rebels made their appearance. the scenery down the banks of the
                                    river presents a beautiful appearance at this time of year as the foliage is in its
                                    full growth. for a good portion of the way the banks are low & sandy,
                                    & the trees are small & so thick that a man could hardly get through
                                    it. when the banks were high we would frequently pass large plantations apparently
                                    deserted. it is a common sight to see the naked chimnies of houses that have been
                                    buned by our troops & in some instances whole towns, as we passed along the
                                    niggers would collect on the shore & wave their hankerchiefs & caps
                                    as we passed. we passed several large camps 20 miles from where we came into the
                                    river [Yazoo]. We are on a high range of bluffs formerly occupied & pretty
                                    well fortified by the rebels, their earth works are still in tolerable good
                                    condition & there are several heavy guns left here by them the carriages are
                                    burned & guns spiked there is one in particular that is very large and heavy
                                    the diametre of the bore is 11 inches & it weighs thirteen thousand
                                    & three hundred pounds. we are about 10 miles from Vicksburg & while
                                    I am writing I can hear the roar of the heavy seige guns at Vicksburg. how soon we
                                    may be called upon to advance L assist in storming that rebel stronghold is not in
                                    my power to say. the reports that come from there are favorable, whether we stop
                                    here or advance to Vicksburg I cannot say be that as it may we are in the hands of
                                    [a] just God. who I trust will guide & protect us where ever we may go. We
                                    in the God of battles trust, for we know our cause is just. Maggie this is the last
                                    letter I may ever get to write to you yet I trust I will live to write you several
                                    & I do hope you may get all of them I shall endeavor to send you a letter
                                    about once in two weeks & I think Laf. will write often & when can I
                                    look for another letter from Maggie I have not been able to comply with your request
                                    yet. I think of you often & hope you think of me in my wanderings. O Mag.
                                    you would laugh to see us cook. we got us some old oyster cans & put in wire
                                    bales & in these we boil our coffee & tea, then we sharpen a stick
                                    & put our meat on it & hold it to the fire until it is cooked well I
                                    must once more say goodbye & ask you to write soon & direct to
                        Co. K 99th Regt Ind. Vols. 1st Division 3rd Brigade
                                    Near Vicksburg, Miss.
                        I will enclose a specimen of Spanish moss it grows out of the limbs of trees, many of
                                    which are completely covered with it.
                        Saturday Eve. June 13th
                        
                        I had just got your letter wrote yesterday when our orderly Sarjent called on me to
                                    get ready for picket duty. the notice was so short I did not get the letter mailed,
                                    so I will write a little more before I send it. there is 20 detailed out our company
                                    each day for guard duty. picketing is not here the same as at the north. we know not
                                    what day a rebel force may break in upon us therefore the responsibility that rests
                                    upon a sentinel is great & death would be the portion for the man who sleeps
                                    on his post the pickets are stationed near two miles out of camp & 20 in a
                                         squad. two are on watch at a time &
                                    this makes it light for all. 
                                        Orlando
                                     Powell & I were on together last night & we had only
                                    one hour to stand, the rest of the night we had for sleep. we spread our oil clothes
                                    & blankets on the ground & have nothing but the broad canopy of
                                    heaven for shelter. this does tolerable well in summer but in winter & cold
                                    stormy weather I would not envy the berth. yesterday a new picket line was being
                                    estblished we had about 8 miles of as awful rough country to walk over as I ever
                                    saw. it is nothing but a succession of ridges & gullies &
                                    perpendicular bluffs which if man should happen to make a misstep it would plunge
                                    him over a hundred feet in to the abyss below. our troops are planting their cannon
                                    on some of these commanding bluffs to keep of [f] the enemy we were pretty tired
                                    when night came & were glad to get t chance to spread our blankets &
                                    get some rest. our duty will be light here I think. we are rather crowded for tent
                                    room there being only five for a company but we must expect to suffer under some
                                    disadvantages where there is so many. Sunday Morning June 14th I
                                    was tired last night & as the mail does not leave until tomorrow I thought I
                                    would postpone finishing this letter today, I think we will be kept here for the
                                    purpose of keeping the rebels from reinforcing Vicksburg. I hope in my next to be
                                    able to tell you that it has fallen into our hands. Oh Maggie I carried your
                                    likeness in my bosom with the letter & came near spoiling them with sweat
                                    but the inside of the likeness & the lock of hair was unharmed. Well, I must
                                    close this & get it in the mail. will you write me a long letter soon as you
                                    get this. I love to get just such letters as your last two was & I want
                                    another. Mag. I want you to love me a little better & more every day. I
                                    thank you for sending me that post stamp. I know you love to hear from me &
                                    I do love to write to my love. I do not hear from home yet but hope to
                                    soon—no more but remain your until death. once more Goodbye Maggie
                        
                                    from Charles N. Cook
                                
                        
                           
                                        Lafayette
                                     is out on picket duty today. we have ripe blackberries.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Snyders Bluff, Miss.
                           
                                    Friday, June 19th 1863.
                                
                        My Dear beloved Maggie
                        Only five days since I mailed my last letter to my love and find it now as always is
                                    to me a delightful task to take my portfolio on my lap & study up something
                                    to write that I think will interest her. I want you to go in some nice pleasant
                                    place & as you read this just imagine me by your side & just as I
                                    write I would talk to you. as I came from picket duty today the joyful tiding,
                                    "a letter for you Chas. N." O how gladly did I grasp the ever
                                    welcome message for I knew before I opened it that it was from Maggie & she
                                    never writes anything but what I love to read. I went down to the river bank or near
                                    it & selected a shady spot all alone with none to molest me with their
                                    impudent inquisitiveness, a good stock of which some of the boys are possessed with.
                                    I sat there a long while reading your good long letter & watching the
                                    steamboats as they plowed  their way up and down
                                    the river. while I sat there one boat came up with a regt of soldiers aboard. there
                                    were several boats at the landing being unloaded of army stores these too but a
                                    couple of days since came up the river [Yazoo] loaded down with soldiers wagons
                                    cannon ammunition etc—there has been about 18 boats up with soldiers
                                    since our flat of 13 boats came up. Uncle Samuel is just rushing the troops down
                                    [the Mississippi River] to this point & great
                                    preparations are being made for the purpose of keeping the rebs from reinforcing
                                    Pemberton at Vicksburg. everyday we hear the booming of cannon at that place
                                    & at night also. that the rebels are suffering in Vicksburg there can be no
                                    doubt we have them hemmed in and I hope soon to hear they have surrendered. squads
                                    of them come outside at night & try to break through our lines but are drove
                                    back. if we get that place it will be a decisive blow towards closing up this
                                    rebellion. I wish you could look at the miles of breast works that are thrown up
                                    round the brows of the hills facing every point that would be possible for an enemy
                                    to get in at. deep ravines & gullies jut down in every direction
                                    perpendicular precipices from 80 to 100 feet deep are to be seen. I have some
                                    opportunity of seeing some of the country yesterday a lot from our company was sent
                                    out among the advance pickets there were about 1000 all together & we were
                                    put outside of the old line. the fartherest of all from camp it was three miles out
                                    & that was the most fatigueing 3 miles march I ever took. you can hardly
                                    have an idea how oppresively hot it is here & if it were not for an
                                    occasional thunder shower & the refreshing breeze that blows from the river
                                    the heat would be intolerable, our camp is on a sidehill & the sun strikes
                                    the tents so hot that we can hardly stay in them in the heat of the day. we have to
                                    spread our blankets on the grounds as there is not room for bunks we are so crowded.
                                    This is a great country for fruit as I ever saw as we were marching out on the
                                    picket line on both sides of the road we could see the blackberry bushes loaded down
                                    with ripe and red berries & we could not get out to gratify our apetites,
                                    but this morning I managed to get behind & feasted to my heart's
                                    content. yesterday I picked a fine lot of mulberries & stewed them the
                                    country produces the finest quality of plums & it is plum time here now I
                                    long for the peaches to get ripe I am very fond of them. Laf. came in from guard
                                    today he was with some others across the river guarding a lot of cattle that had
                                    been "drafted in", when Uncle Sam wants cattle or mules he sends
                                    his boys out into secessia & they bring in a supply. they also brought in a
                                    lot of darkies. their masters were off fighting against their country, &
                                    left them at home to take care of things & the union boys press them into
                                    service. It is getting dark and I will say good night to you & in the
                                    morning bright and early while it is cool I will write more unless I am called out
                                    on duty.
                        Saturday morning June 20th. I have not been detailed for duty yet.
                                    we have had our breakfast the bill of fare was hard crackers, bacon & tea.
                                    we have got so used to our rough fare that it tastes good to us, but I know what
                                    would be far better a slice of Maggie's good bread & sweet butter
                                    & a cup of her good coffee, then to enjoy her sweet smiles, & listen
                                    to the sound of her voice, to get away from the cold unfeeling world & all
                                    alone to enjoy each others love & confidence—to get away from a
                                    set  of miserable beings whose life it is to
                                    make others miserable, but they are not worth minding—such people are low
                                    minded & mean—they are quarrelsome & peevish we have some
                                    in our company, some that you know & they know you & know that I
                                    correspond with you, & were impudent enough to write a letter while we were
                                    at camp Morton imitating your hand writing & signing your name to it
                                    & directing it to me. it has not been done but once & I feel
                                    thankful that all they can do or say cannot seperate me from my own sweet
                                    Maggie—who I love more & more every kind letter I get from her O
                                    what joy it gives me to know that she loves me.
                        I expect we will have some important news to write before I send this there has been
                                    a most constant war of cannons at Vicksburg since three hours before day until
                                    within the last hour it has somewhat subsided. O how many poor souls have been
                                    ushered into eternity. there is a rebel force not a great distance from here
                                    & if they attempt to reinforce the rebels at Vicksburg we will be apt to get
                                    into an engagement. I will not mail this until tomorrow evening & perhaps I
                                    will have something interesting to write. When Laf. came in from duty last evening
                                    we went away alone & I read most all of your kind letter to him & it
                                    did him good to hear from home again Lafe says he will write soon & write
                                    about what you requested to know. That sweet little rose came in good order
                                    & I put it between my lips in token of my love to you. I think your cake
                                    will be nice trimmed with those sweet roses. There is a nice little book I would
                                    like you to have it is a small book & will cost about 50 cts in blue
                                    & gold, the title is "The language of flowers" when I get
                                    my money I will have you get it. we need our money very much but I know not when we
                                    will get any. we have a sutler & he sells things at about three prices. the
                                    government authorizes him to issue two dollars each month to a man of his checks
                                    & he draws his pay from the paymaster but it is optional with the men to
                                    draw the checks or not as they like. I suppose our sutler sells a thousand dollars
                                    worth of goods & eatables a month & will probably make his fortune.
                                    last evening at dusk a private of the 90th Ill. was shot dead by
                                    one of his fellow soldiers while under the influence of liquor & the same
                                    shot passed through the serjt's hand this murder occured only a short
                                    distance from our tent & we heard the report of the gun. I felt very sorey
                                    to hear such sad news from your cousin it seems hard to think of but such are the
                                    vicissitudes of war. life is very uncertain with us all. I will be heartily glad
                                    when this dredful war is over. I am getting very anxious to hear from my native home
                                    once more I have not heard a word from there since we left Camp Morton. I miss my
                                    mother's good letters very much. I sometimes think it will not be my
                                    privelege to ever see my dear mother again in this world. I have not seen my parents
                                    for over seven years. I hope I hear from them soon. I suppose my mother is about 67
                                    years of age & my father about 74. it makes me sad when I think of them in
                                    their old age all alone not a child to comfort them. Oh how I long to visit home
                                    sweet home. to breathe the pure air & drink the pure cold water &
                                    see those good old hills [Berkshires in Mass,] again but it will not do to build
                                    hopes for this world.
                        Sunday eve. June 21st The sun of anather sabbath is once more  sinking neath the western horizon. to friends at home
                                    it has shed its rays on assembled multitudes enjoying its sacred hours in prayer
                                    & praise to the creator of all things. to the soldiers in the field how
                                    different. the name of that holy being is irreverently used card playing is followed
                                    & many other things unbecoming to mortals is practiced. & dear
                                    Maggie I will tell you how I spent the day. this morning just at five oclock most
                                    our company (including Laf & me) were called into line with our guns
                                    & equipments for duty they took us out together with others from other
                                    companies making in all 150 men (Monday morning June 22nd) we were supplied with 50
                                    chopping axes & marched out to Uncle Sam's great clearing. there
                                    are thousands of acres of heavy timber in the ravines and hillsides that are being
                                    cut down to make a barrier against the approach of the enemy, instead of a shelter
                                    as it would be if left standing. the 180 men were divided into three reliefs each
                                    relief working one hour at a time, & each man had only two hours work to do
                                    during the day. this was light on us & we could not complain. the fortifying
                                    is progressing very fast the soldiers are taking the spikes out of the big guns that
                                    the rebs left there & they are hauling them to the high points where they
                                    will be used in a better cause than formerly. it has been only a little over one
                                    month since the rebels occupied these bluffs & it is astonishing to see the
                                    amount of work the Yankees have done in so short a time. Well Maggie I have got your
                                    letter most finished & I know not how long it will be before it will reach
                                    you for Gen. Grant has issued an order that no more letters shall go from here
                                    untill the fall of Vicksburg. but mails from home will continue so we can hear from
                                    our loved ones. you were a good girl to send me such a kind letter I read them over
                                    many times & think of my gentle confiding Maggie. we can think of each other
                                    now & write often & strengthen the cords of affection that is
                                    entwining itself closer & nearer our hearts until it shall never no never be
                                    severed until death & then to be reunited in a better world where partings
                                    are never known. Mag. I want after awhile when we get our money to get a good
                                    picture [of you] to send home to my mother & I would like to have mine in
                                    the same case but dont know as I can arrange it. I think it is out of the question
                                    to get one taken here. Monday Evening. Mag. I have but a few minutes to finish this
                                    letter we are to leave here tomorrow morning at six they say & we are
                                    drawing three days rations. where we are going it is impossible for me to say but I
                                    think up the river [Yazoo] again but I will close & tell you all about it
                                    when time reveals it to us so good bye dear Maggie for a few days
                        
                                    I remain your true lover until death
                                    Chas. N. Cook
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            From Snyder's Bluff, the 99th Indiana with other troops was shifted eastward to the
                        Big Black River which parallels the Yazoo but joins the 
                        Mississippi
                     south of Vicksburg. This transfer was made on June 26, and here the troops remained
                    until after the surrender of Vicksburg. The activities of the period from July 4th until the troops
                    were again in  camp near the Black River are portrayed in the
                    following excerpt from Cook's letter of July 27, 1863: 
                  
                     
                        On the morning of the 4th of July the joyful tidings of the surrender of Vicksburg
                                    fell upon our ears & Oh what a thrill of joy it gave us all to hear such
                                    glorious news, to a soldier's ear such news is music, it makes him feel as
                                    if one step was taken towards the accomplishment of his desires & his home
                                    & friends seem a little nearer brought to the time when he is once more to
                                    enjoy their presence & love. the same day at 4 P.M. we were under orders to
                                    proceed on [eastward] to black river & at 5 we were on our way & did
                                    not reach a camping ground until 10 at night, we were all tired & sleep was
                                    a welcome guest to us. early Sunday morning we got our breakfast & drew
                                    rations & traveled until noon when we took refuge from the scorgeng
                                    [scorching sun] in the edge of a big cornfield which bordered on the river &
                                    within halfe a mile of where we supposed Johnston to be fortified on the other side.
                                    we lay hid until dark when we were formed into line of battle & marched
                                    across the field towards the river arriving close to the river we were ordered to
                                    lay down to rest with our guns by our sides, in the night one of our batteries
                                    commenced shelling the woods on opposite side & the next day we lay there
                                    & our skirmishers a short distance in our advance & under shelter of
                                    the trees on the bank of the river kept up a brisk fire at the rebel pickets on the
                                    other side, & they were so near each other we could hear our men curse them
                                    & they would ask our men to go over & get something to drink. well
                                    we did go over that evening about a fourth of a mile below we got a rope across
                                    & crossed on a flat boat. by the time we were across the rebs were making a
                                    hasty retreat back to Jackson the capital & we followed on. we passed the
                                    plantation & mansion of Joe Davis a brother of Jeff's & I
                                    will here mention on our return we found it burnt to ashes. there is the finest
                                    peach orchard on this place I ever saw & I got some as we came back, some
                                    varities were nearly ripe & of an enormous size. On Friday the 10th we came
                                    within 3 miles of Jackson & were formed into a line of battle & were
                                    moved in this way very cautious the skirmishers in advance feeling to find out the
                                    position of the enemy they were fortified close in the edge of town & we met
                                    with no trouble that night but kept advancing until pretty close to their lines,
                                    & about 10 oclock we camped with our guns at our sides. our company
                                    & regt lay across a railroad & next morning we were annoyed by the
                                    bullets of the rebel sharpshooters as they had a good range on us down the railroad.
                                    it got most too warm for us so the Colonel ordered us to take our guns &
                                    move one side under shelter of the timber, while we were in the act of taking arms
                                    one man a member of Campany I received a ball which passed through his head killing
                                    his instantly. soon the rebs commenced throwing shell amongst us as we were under
                                    cover of the timber they passed harmless by yet some burst very close & some
                                    of our men came close to getting hit. we soon changed our position & were
                                    put in line of battle before the rebel works & under cover of the oak grubs
                                    here we lay for three days exposed to the shot & shell of the enemy
                                    & living almost entirely on dry crackers as we dare not build a fire for it
                                    would show the rebs our position & expose us to their shells. while we lay
                                    there they kept up an almost  constant fire
                                    & several shells burst almost in our midst. on Wednesday we were moved to
                                    the rear a mile to forage & recruit up the boys soon brought in a good
                                    supply of beef mutton & pork, & we got plenty of coffee, &
                                    soon we began to get recruited. on Wednesday night the 15th [July]
                                    the rebs probably finding the force against them was too great evacuated the place
                                    & fled by railroad on the opposite side just in time to avoid being
                                    surrounded we were then ordered down the railroad to tear up the track, &
                                    burn the ties & bend the iron so as to make a good job of it we spent the
                                    remainder of the week at this work & destroyed about ten miles of the road
                                    & Sunday morning the 19th were ordered back to camp where
                                    we remained next day. on Wednesday the Division with colors flying marched through
                                    the town & the soldiers had one hour to stop & bathe in the Pearl
                                    river this was intended for a pleasure excursion yet it did not seem much like it to
                                    us, as the sun was extremely hot & it was very dusty. we were glad to get
                                    back to camp. the town is not near as large as 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     & near all the business part is burnt & it presents a
                                    most desolating appearance. Thursday morning before daylight we left our camp before
                                    Jackson & retraced our march to this place where we arrived last Saturday it
                                    is only about one quarter mile from black river where we are camped in the timber.
                                    it is a lovely place & we get tolerable good water. our teams got back from
                                    the bluffs today with our knapsacks & we were glad to get our blankets again
                                    & I was glad to see my old portfolio again with my writing paper &
                                    ink. Tuesday July 28th for want of time I did not finish this letter yesterday
                                    & now I will tell you that the prospect is that we will stop here for
                                    several weeks, & I feel glad for I can get the rest I need & I can
                                    write to my true love & read her kind letters….
                     
                  
               
            
            Following the marching and skirmishing in 
                        Mississippi
                     of July, 1863, the 99th Indiana was held for some time in a camp near the Black River
                    which was christened Camp Sherman. While here, Private Cook received a letter from his brother
                    Edward, whom he had long believed to be dead. This brother, now thirty-six years of age and two
                    years the senior of Charles N., who had gone to 
                        California
                     during the gold rush, joined the Army of the Potomac early in the War. When released
                    from the service, in 1863, he visited his parents in Williams-town, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He had not been in touch with them for over a year and a half, and, like Charles, they
                    believed that he had lost his life soon after going to the front.6
            
            In his letters to Margaret Ball, Private Cook continued to pour out his love, but he also described
                    quite minutely the life of the camp. He was very religious and older than most of his comrades in
                    the ranks. He was never able to accustom himself to the profanity and vulgar speech so often
                    indulged in by 
                  
                     6 Edward Cook to Charles N. Cook, Williamstown, Mass., July 16,
                        1868.
               
                     many of those about him. At almost every opportunity he would
                    wander off by himself to re-read Margaret's letters, to write replies, to enjoy what nature
                    had to offer, or to commune with himself. It would seem that many of his companions in arms
                    developed a dislike for him. In a letter of August 6, 1863, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        Maggie that man who will curse his maker and profane his Name will curse his best and
                                    nearest earthly friend if he gets provoked or crossed by that friend & you
                                    know it is not pleasant to be cursed I suppose every boy you know in our Company has
                                    give me a cursing they don't like me very well & I don't
                                    like their ways either & keep pretty well on my side. I intend to do as near
                                    right as I know how & I will come out right in the end….7
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            While in the South, Private Cook contracted chronic diarrhoea and rheumatism, ailments that were to
                    trouble him to the end of his life. While in the service, he frequently recovered from these
                    afflictions, for shorter or longer periods, so that in spite of them he was able to complete the
                    three years for which he had volunteered. Many times, he wrote "Maggie" that he
                    was anxious to obtain a furlough, that he might visit 
                        Logansport
                     and possibly go to the Berkshires to see his father and mother. He was consumed with a
                    desire to visit "Maggie", whom, it will be recalled he had never seen. When he
                    finally obtained a furlough near the beginning of September, 1863, he was obliged to inform his
                    "sweetheart" that he felt it best not to make the long journey: "I
                    don't know Maggie but you will blame me if I tell you I had the chance to go north
                    & did not improve it. You will remember it is a long trip from here to 
                        Logansport
                     & I have been sick for several weeks & consequently am weak so I think
                    it better to remain here until I get another chance when I am in good health and in a condition to
                    enjoy the visit." The furlough was transferred to a comrade, and Private Cook did not reach 
                        Logansport
                     until two more years had passed.8 Though thirty-four years of age,
                    he was a typical lover who often succeeded in expressing himself in somewhat poetic phrases,
                    especially when painting the future: 
                  
                     
                        In the springtime we will plant flowers & they will spring up by the pathway
                                    and shed their fragrance around our happy home the tiny humming bird will visit us
                                    and feast on the bouquet that Jupiter sips. our paths shall be pleasantness
                                    & the end thereof will be peace. we will attune 
                              
                                 7 Charles N. Cook to Margaret Ball, Camp Sherman
                                            [Miss.], Sept. 9, 1863.
                           
                                     our voices to the praise of the giver of all
                                    good & acknowledge him in all our ways. Maggie I love you…8
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In a letter of September 16, 1863, an attempt was made to explain fully the discipline and duties of
                    soldiers in camp. In another of the next day, also written at Camp Sherman near Vicksburg, the
                    following appeared: 
                  
                     
                        Our Lieut. Col. Dehart [De Hart] has gone back to Logan [
                                        Logansport
                                    ] & I hope he may stay there and put on all the airs he plases
                                    we don't care if he never comes back. there is a little too much poppy show
                                    about him for my use. We all like our Col. Fowler he is a whole souled man &
                                    works for the well being of the men, but he is now acting as commander of the
                                    brigade so we have for the present lost him. he took a trip north a few weeks since.
                                    it was after dark when he arrived at the camp the report of his arrival soon spread
                                    out among the regt & the boys flocked together at his tent like children
                                    welcoming a returned parent, the drums were brought out & beat three times
                                    three cheers rent the air & the old Col. had to come out so he told the boys
                                    he was as glad to see them as they were him & requested them to go back to
                                    their quarters and make less noise. the next day the Col. had many
                                    a good shake of hands, that is the kind of an officer we want, not the little
                                    upstarts who make the men stand out on guard & keep a man pacing before his
                                    quarters & set the men to grubbing up big stumps & usurping his
                                    authority to the discomfitllre of the men. give me an old patriot to serve under one
                                    that knows what active service is & feels for his, men….
                     
                  
               
            
            The next message was written at 
                        Memphis
                     on October 10, but it seems not to have reached Miss Ball.9 The
                    troops were being moved toward East 
                        Tennessee
                    . By October 18, they had reached Iuka, 
                        Mississippi
                    . There was much marching and plenty of hardships to be endured while the troops were
                    covering the distance from Vicksburg to Scottsboro, 
                        Alabama
                    , near 
                        Chattanooga
                    , as the following passages will show: 
                  
                     
                        before light Sunday morning [Oct. 11, 1863, at 
                                        Memphis
                                    ] the drums beat & we got a hurried breakfast & drew
                                    rations for 10 days we were soon equiped & in line—except such as
                                    were unable to march they were left behind with the tents &c to be taken on
                                    the cars the morning was fine the air cool & refreshing before the sun had
                                    cast its first morning ray upon the earth the drums were beating on every side
                                    & regt after regt were in motion—the heavy
                                    rumbling of artillery—the clatter of horses hoofs as officers rode
                                    by—all presented a lively and interesting appearance. we traveled 9 miles
                                    & then stopped & took a cup of coffee…. after resting a
                                    couple of hours 
                              
                                            8
                                            Ibid.
                                        
                              
                                 9 There is no such letter in the Cook collection. It
                                            may have been lost, of course.
                           
                                     we moved on & just at dark camped in
                                    the black oak timber—having marched just about 20 miles the first
                                        day—…10
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The troops reached Florence, 
                        Alabama
                    , on the afternoon of October 29. From here the soldier from the Berkshire
                        Hills reported on the following day: 
                  
                     
                        we arrived here yesterday afternoon. the country we passed over [from Iuka to
                                    Florence] was beautiful but very rough. we found an abundance of the purest water I
                                    have seen for a long time. it runs through beds of gravel & is as clear as
                                    Cristal…. everything looks like desruction with a few
                                    exceptions…. we have at four times been within hearing of cannonading
                                    since we left 
                                        Memphis
                                    . This march was a pleasant one to me. I must say this fatigue one is
                                    called upon to endure is amply repaid by the ever changing scenery…11
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            For a number of weeks while on this march, Private Cook gained strength and seems really to have
                    enjoyed army life. At Scottsboro, 
                        Alabama
                    , he was happy to write to his parents on January 28, 1864: "My health is
                    getting excellent & I have recovered from my lameness." This statement is somewhat
                    surprising as he had passed through a harrowing experience for a man with rheumatism, only a few
                    weeks before. In his own words the story runs: 
                  
                     
                        you probably recollect my telling you that we lay over at or near Stephen-son [
                                        Alabama
                                    ] on Christmas day h on the night or towards morning of the next day it
                                    set in to raining, or pouring down our tents were not ditched around & as we
                                    had spread our blankets on the ground of course we got a soaking & the
                                    ground was like a pond of water. think of us miserable beings standing for hours
                                    nearly over shoe [top] in water waiting for day to come. then soon as light had come
                                    & we had managed to have a little fire & got a cup of hot coffee
                                    about made the order-came to strike tents & after that order there is only
                                    20 minutes before the troops are moving. some threw away their coffee and began
                                    packing their knapsacks the rain was still pouring down. I finished my breakfast and
                                    by that time the regt was gone. Yet I was not able to walk even a common gait but
                                    [because] my legs were so disabled & on the day previous to our arrival at
                                    Stephenson [following the night when they stood in the water] I was behind the whole
                                    train [body of troops] & suffered very much. I here made up my mind in spite
                                    of all orders from the officers I was going to stop at Stephenson until convalesant
                                    train went out and then go aboard. so I accordingly moved into town as fast as my
                                    greatly exhausted powers of locomotion would admit & after wandering about
                                    the town for a while (this was the day I expressed $50 home) &
                                        
                              
                                 10 Cook to Margaret Ball, Inka, Miss., Oct. 18, 1863.
                              
                                 11 Cook to Margaret Ball, Florence, Ala., Oct. 30,
                                            1863.
                           
                                     finally noticed considerable of a gathering of
                                    soldiers in & about an old building which was minus doors & winders.
                                    having made my condition known to an officer among the group I was told that was the
                                    place where convalesants were stoping for a train was to take them on & was
                                    invited to make myself at home as no train was to leave until 9 A. M. of next day.
                                    so that night I lay on the floor with my damp shawl and oil cloth about &
                                    you don't know how comfortable [I was able] to be under shelter once more
                                    & a dry floor to rest my bones on. the next morning rather early we went
                                    board [the cars] unfortunately for us was obliged to take to top of the car for it
                                    & after awhile it set in to raining again & so we had to take it. it
                                    was about noon before we got started early that afternoon [Dec. 27, 18631 the train
                                    arrived at S—boro [Scottsboro]. me…12
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The 99th Indiana remained at Scottsboro, 
                        Alabama
                    , until late in the spring of 1864, when it moved forward to participate in
                    Sherman's movement from 
                        Chattanooga
                     to 
                        Atlanta
                    . Private Cook, having recruited his health during the winter months at Scottsboro, held
                    up remarkably well through the long campaign of 1864. In regard to his part, there is a brief
                    account in a letter to his parents,13 and a short statement made to Miss Ball
                    soon after the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                    . To her he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        I will say we have gone through a long and tedious campaign & are now
                                    encamped in a pleasant forest of oaks and pine and chestnut trees it is a delightful
                                    place. 
                                        Atlanta
                                     is about four miles from here up the railroad it is three weeks today
                                    since we came into camp after taking 
                                        Atlanta
                                     & driving the rebs into Lovejoy station about 10 or 12 miles
                                    below the campaign has been a very successful one as you are probably aware.14
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            There are no letters to Margaret Ball in the Cook manuscript collection from March, 1864, to almost
                    the end of September. If any were written, they are not preserved. The probability is that none were
                    mailed by Private Cook in that period. His letters to his parents generally included much about
                    "Maggie", but in one of April 8, 1864, he merely said: "I have given up
                    the idea of comiting the crime of Matrimony at present." On September 29, 1864, after
                    having heard from Margaret again, he opened his reply with these sentences: 
                  
                     
                        It affords deep & heartfelt pleasure to me, after so long time silence, once
                                    more to trace out a few lines to you & to feel assured that the troubled
                                    waters of our peace are getting calmed & that after he or 
                              
                                 12 Cook to his father and mother, Scottsboro, Ala.,
                                            Jan. 28, 1864.
                              
                                 13 Cook to his father and mother [Northwestern 
                                                Georgia
                                            ], June 2, 3, 4, 7, 1864.
                              
                                 14 Cook to Margaret Ball, Camp near Eastpoint, Ga.,
                                            Sept. 29, 1864.
                           
                                     those who made the evil attempt to destroy it
                                    no longer have the power or influence & that at the present time I can feel
                                    the happy assurance that I have the confidence & love of one I do truely
                                    love is it not so Maggie". Our former correspondence was a source of great
                                    pleasure to me…15
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The cloud which arose to darken the hitherto bright path of love for these young people appeared in
                    February, 1864. Some acquaintance of Miss Ball, who was in camp with her lover, sent her an account
                    of him which gave her pause. She, however, wrote him the substance of the evil report that she had
                    heard which was that he was a man without moral character and an object of disgust covered with dirt
                    and vermin.16 His reply indicates an adequate amount of righteous indignation,
                    but is manly and sincere. He declared that he would not write to defend his character, that he had
                    no fears in regard to it, believing that by the help of God it would stand, since his life was, he
                    trusted, based on "principles firm as rock." In regard to the "dirt and
                    vermine", the much distressed and disturbed lover bravely told the truth and gave what
                    should have been an entirely satisfactory explanation.17 The next letter from
                    "Maggie" was comforting to Private Cook, and the correspondence went on for a
                    short time much as before. It was not long, however, until the letters ceased to pass between them
                    for several months. The cause seems to have been that enemies of Private Cook continued to send evil
                    reports to Miss Ball, which led her to believe that her soldier lover had betrayed her confidence by
                    allowing others to see her letters to him. After the reconciliation, Cook made a statement relative
                    to this charge which he considered very serious: 
                  
                     
                        all I can say with regard to the matter is your letters to me have never by my
                                    consent been read by a second person except an occasional one 1 read a portion to
                                    your brother [
                                        Lafayette
                                     Ball] by your leave, & if any other man in the company or any
                                    other person says they have seen one of your letters to me I will say it was without
                                    my consent & that person is guilty of an act that ought to mak a devil
                                        blush…18
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            After the 
                        Atlanta
                     Campaign, the 99th Indiana was one of the regiments sent back to 
                        Tennessee
                    . In January, 1865, a 
                  
                            15
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     16 Cook to Margaret Ball, Scottaboro, Ala., Feb. 8, 1864.
                  
                            17
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     18 Cook to Margaret Ball, Camp Near Eastpoint, Gs., Sapt. 29,
                        1864.
               
                     large force was transported from 
                        Tennessee
                     to the East on the 
                        Tennessee
                     and Ohio rivers to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and from there by rail via
                    
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               . Here they were available for service in 
                        Virginia
                     or the Caro-linas. While on one of the transport boats, Private Cook met with an
                    accident. From a fall, he suffered a bruised side and was left behind in a hospital at
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , when the troops entrained for the East. The troops had arrived
                    at 
                        Columbus
                     on the morning of January 26, and Cook saw his comrades depart three days later.19 The disabled soldier improved rapidly and was soon sent to 
                        North Carolina
                     to join his Company.20 Here he saw service for many weeks and then
                    further hospital experience.
            [Private Cook to his Parents]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Post Hospital Smithville N. C.
                           
                                    May 17th 1865
                                
                        Dear Father & Mother
                        As I have a good opportunity I will write a few lines home today & let you
                                    know how I am getting along & the reason of my being here & of my
                                    future prospects &c I with several other sick & crippled soldiers
                                    was brought from the camp near Wilmington to that place last Thursday &
                                    stoped in the Hospital there until the next day when we took the boat & came
                                    down Fear river to this place which is situated at the mouth of Fear river &
                                    near the ocean so we get a good bracing sea-breeze which is quite reviving, this
                                    seems to be a general Hospital, there are several hundred patience [patients] here.
                                    We are in large Hospital tents, have good matrass 1 wollen blanket & good
                                    pillow & linen sheets, with iron bedsteads, for "grub" we
                                    get pretty good tea 3 times a day with milk & sugar, a slice of good bread
                                    & butter & sanitary stores such as Tomatoes blackberries &c
                                    this is for light diet & I am on that our food is scant but good but I must
                                    tell you how I came to get in to a hospital, for some time I have felt the rhumatism
                                    coming on & of course it first took me in my lame side & soon I got
                                    so that I was hardly able to walk about & take care of myself so the Docktor
                                    sent me off to the Hosp. I will state since the rhumatism took hold of me my diahrea
                                    entirely left me & I have a good apetite & hope soon to be well, it
                                    is probable we will all be shiped north in a few days & be discharged I am
                                    told that it is the order for all men in Hosp who are not under a phisicians care
                                    are to be discharged immediately. I hope to get home some time in June or July, so
                                    we will try & be patient you will not need to worry about me for I am cared
                                    for. I dont think it worth while for me to have you send any letter to this place as
                                    it is very uncertain if we stop here long I long to hear from you but must be
                                    patient From your affate son
                        
                                    Chas N Cook
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 Cook to Margaret Ball, 
                            Columbus
                        , O., Jan. 30, 1865.
               
                  20 Cook to Margaret Ball, 
                            Columbus
                        , O., Feb. 5, 1865.
            
            
            No letters were written by Cook to "Maggie" from the middle of May to the last day
                    of June, 1865, when he was on an island in Long Island Sound.
            [Private Cook to Miss Ball]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              D Camp Genl Hosp. N.Y. Harbor
                           
                                    June 30th 1866
                                
                        Dear Margaret
                        After so long a silence on my part, I dont know but you have long since given me up
                                    for dead or perhaps think I may have forgotten a certain light haired & blue
                                    eyed lady whom I call Maggie & from whom during my wanderings over the
                                    wilderness of the would be but couldnt be Southern Confederacy, I have recd many a
                                    comforting little meessage, which like angel visits seemed to bouy up my spirits
                                    & better fit me for the burden of the day. Now those days that tried
                                    men's souls is past & gone.
                        I think the last letter I sent you was written while in the convalesant camp near
                                    Wilmington N.C. & if you recd that letter you know something of my movements
                                    up to that time, & starting from that time & place I will give you a
                                    little idea [of] my journeyings & circumstances up to the present &
                                    of my plans for the future. I will state that the latter part of April &
                                    early in May I was taken down with the rhumatism which proceeded from the injury in
                                    my side which you will recollect I got a fall on the boat last winter. about the 10th of May several of [us were] crowded into government wagons
                                    & hauled to the city of Wilmington a distance of about 3 miles, & it
                                    was the toughest ride I ever took. To my great joy we at length turned up to a good
                                    hospital in the city, a fine three story building here we got a good supper bed
                                    & breakfast—but our quiet harbour was soon intruded upon
                                    & our baggage was brought out & we were soon aboard a steamer after
                                    another jolting in the old lumber wagons at noon the boat had steamed down the river
                                    & hauled up to a small town called Smithville situated on the beach here we
                                    were again introduced into a Gen. rec. Hosp. all new tents & very nice. here
                                    I soon began to recruit & in a few days was free from my Rhumatism but my
                                    old trouble the Diareah fastened on me & it has been a series of ups
                                    & downs with me ever since. I remained in that hospital until the first week
                                    in June when a splendid hospital Steamer came in for us & we were soon on
                                    board our prospect for a pleasant trip to 
                                        New York
                                     was fair we had good bunks & beds to sleep on plenty of room on
                                    deck our meals cooked & brought to us good ice water to drink & a
                                    smooth sea to sail on, & Oh! what a happy thought going towards home sweet
                                    home with the expectations of soon seeing our dear friends, three long weeks has
                                    passed since we came in sight of 
                                        New York
                                     Harbour & here I am still waiting on still hoping, longing,
                                    within a few hours ride of my old native home. The hosp. I am in is on
                                    David's Island down Long Island sound about 25 miles from the city of N.Y.
                                    it is a Gen. Hosp. & rather extensive there being 20 Pavilions to
                                    accommodate 1600 patients these are long wooden buildings well built &
                                    airey, besides these there are a great number of tents. Nearly every day a squad are
                                    sent to N.Y. to be discharged I am put down for a discharge  & know not what day I will be called up. I
                                    suppose my descriptive list is on the way before this time, it is a matter of
                                    uncertainity to me when my turn will come. I am so near my Father's that I
                                    intend to visit them before going west & try to get my strength. I will
                                    write to you when I get home [Williamstown, Mass.]. It is my present intention to go
                                    to 
                                        Logansport
                                     after my visit to Father's & of course I will
                                    calculate to see you & have a nice talk with you, but I must say good bye
                                    for this time & will ask you to sit down as soon as you receive this
                                    & write me a long letter & tell all the news.
                        
                                    Direct to Chas N. Cook Williamstown Mass.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            As the reader knows, the love affair between the returned veteran and Margaret Ball turned out
                    happily, the marriage taking place early in 1866. The following letter, written after eleven years
                    of married life is the last in the Cook collection.
            [Charles N. Cook to his Parents]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Logansport
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feb. 18th 1877.
                                
                        Dear Father & Mother
                        So long a time has passed since I have written to you I dont know but you will begin
                                    to say to each other I do believe our children are forgeting us in our old age. far
                                    as I am concerned you can rest assured that such is not the case, for I often think
                                    of you & the scenes that used to surround my birthplace & the many
                                    familiar faces, most of which are no more seen on earth. & as often do I
                                    feel a longing to set my eyes on those grand old mountains & have a ramble
                                    over them. but circumstances at present are rather unfavorable to realize anything
                                    of the kind my health all this winter has been very poor. for near all the time I
                                    have not been able to do even light work & Margaret has done my feeding and
                                    built the fires most of the time and her brothers have cut my stove wood so you see
                                    we have had it rather rough. my trouble has been the old complaint with chills
                                    & fever I have been having what is called third day ague, & the most
                                    obstinate to get broke of all. & I was reduced down & very weak from
                                    the effects of diarahrea which made it still worse. I have applied for an increase
                                    in Pension with a fair prospect of geting it, was at Logan yestarday & got
                                    examined. had another chill after geting home. although I have had it so rough the
                                    past few months my wife & children have got along with less sickness than
                                    common & Margaret has braved it through nobly. our two little [ones] are in
                                    good health. Willie is the picture of health he has been going to school has one
                                    more week his progress is good & he is fond of reading but does not like to
                                    work except when he anticipates some pay after it is done, then he will work like a
                                    good fellow. Anabel is peiceing a quilt & if she lives I think will be like
                                    her mother, a good seamstress. We have three cows to come in soon & about 70
                                    hens & pullets. so I will get a custard now & then. no letter from
                                    Ed. do you hear from him. if possible let us hear from you soon write all about how
                                    you are geting along this winter.
                        
                                    your children
                                    Charles & Margaret
                                
                        
                        Mother will you send me by mail those 3 little volumes called Master-man Ready
                                    that John Tappan presented me. I want them for Willie to to read. Whatever postage
                                    it costs I will refund in due time.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Notes
            
               Lest We Forget, a story of the Civil War service of The Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     of 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                    , is an interesting and valuable booklet by Sister Mary Theodosia Mug. A Iarge part of
                    this brief account is devoted to the City Hospital of 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the Civil War, during which time it was turned into a Military Hospital. The
                    seventy-nine pages include a number of long excerpts from newspapers and other sources. This booklet
                    which is published by the 
                        Providence
                     Press, 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                    , Indiana, at seventy-five cents per copy is a fitting memorial to the splendid services
                    of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     of 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                     who were in charge of the old City Hospital near 
                        Fall Creek
                     and Locke Street, which cared for sick and wounded soldiers during the dark years of
                    the Civil. War.
            In 1830, Thomas Lincoln and family migrated from the 
                        Spencer county
                    , Indiana, neighborhood, where they had lived for fourteen years. The route which was
                    used has become a matter of controversy. A "Lincoln Highway Commission" appointed
                    by Governor Ralston in 1915 reported officially in 1916 that the route of 1830 led from the Lincoln
                    home near Gentry-ville through Dale, 
                  Jasper, Ireland
               , Otwell, Algiers and Petersburg and on to 
                        Vincennes
                     "by the most direct route". Governor Ralston submitted the findings
                    of his Commission to the Legislature (1917), but the report was not accepted. A new move to discover
                    the correct route was made by Governor Leslie in the appointment of the "Indiana Lincoln
                    Memorial Highway Commission". The members of this Commission have the problem before them
                    at present.
            To aid them in their quest for the truth, the 
                        Warrick County
                     Lincoln Route Association has published a brief of seventy-one pages prepared by
                    William L. Barker, Philip Lutz, Jr., and Union W. Youngblood. The argument, supported by various
                    affidavits and other evidence, is to the effect that the Lincolns could not have gone northward
                    through Dale and 
                        Jasper
                    , but that the actual route lay through Boonville and from thence to 
                        Vincennes
                     through Petersburg.
            
            The brief closes with the following plea to the present Commission: 
                        All of this evidence, it seems to us, has great driving force to convince your Honorable
                            Commission that the Lincolns, in their migration, traveled over the route herein above
                            indicated and we earnestly pray that your Honorable Commission will so decide.
                    To this, the Editor wishes to add the prayer that the Commission shall
                    sift all the evidence carefully in an unbiased effort to discover the truth, and to express the hope
                    that all doubts may be resolved and the facts established beyond question.
            Mr. A. R. Markle of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , a tireless worker in the field of local history and also a competent genealogist, is
                    writing a series of articles on the history of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . These articles, to the number of thirty, have already appeared in the Sunday issues of
                    the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune. Newspapers often publish historical matter, but the Tribune is to be praised for the decision that a carefully prepared series of papers, such as
                    Mr. Markle is writing, is worth paying for. The time may yet come when such an army of readers of
                    newspapers will appreciate and demand accurate, well-written history that it will appear with more
                    regularity in the colums of the daily press and command a fair compensation to those who contribute
                    scholarly and readable copy.
            Frederick Jackson Turner, as he was when a young professor at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the early nineties, is presented in a charming manner by Dr. Joseph Schafer,
                    Superintendent of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society, in the September issue of The 
                            Wisconsin
                         History Magazine. It was in 1893, that Turner read his famous essay,
                    "The Significance of the Frontier in American History," before the American
                    Historical Association. Schafer enrolled in Professor Turner's class in 1892. As a
                    matriculating freshman, he expected to take two years in the College of Liberal Arts and then enter
                    the Law School. Contact with Turner changed the life purpose of the student. He "promptly
                    forgot that such a study as the law existed", and "became wedded to
                    history". A student under the writer of "The Significance of the
                    Frontier" when that essay was in preparation, Dr. Schafer is able to
                    "present",  as he says, "a kind of
                    word picture of the author as he was at the time that theory [the frontier hypothesis] had its
                    inception." All who know Dr. Turner or who have an interest in his interpretation of
                    American history will enjoy pages 86-103 of the current number of The 
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History.
            
            "New 
                        England
                    , 1830-1850", is the title of a pamphlet issued by the Trustees of the Henry E.
                    Huntington Library of 
                  San Marino, California
               . This is a reprint from the first WLlletin of the Library (May, 1931). The study is by Dr. Frederick J. Turner, who has been
                    connected with the 
                        Huntington
                     Library for a few years as Research Associate. He is preparing a volume for Henry Holt
                    and Company, the announced title of which is: The 
                            United States
                        , 1830-1850: The Nation and Its Sections. The study of forty-five pages above
                    mentioned is in substance a chapter of this larger work. It is the earnest hope of all that Dr.
                    Turner will be able to complete the volume soon. It is very gratifying to students of the Middle
                    Period that the splendid chapter on New 
                        England
                     has been braught out in advance.
            
               The Populist Revolt (University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1931), by Dr. John D. Hicks of the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    , and American Neutrality in 1793 (
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1931), by Dr. Charles M. Thomas of Long Island University, have been
                    received and will be reviewed in our December issue.
            
               Fifty Years of Party Warfare (The Bobbs-Merrill Go., 1931), by William O. Lynch,
                    covers the party history of the 
                        United States
                     to 1837. It is a book of about five hundred pages. Reviews of the volume may be found
                    in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times of Sunday, May 31, (Book Review section), in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of May 16, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sunday Star of June 7, and in the American Historical Review of
                    October, 1931. It will not be reviewed in this Magazine, as the Editor would not wish to print
                    anything false about it and the truth might not be printable.
            Charles Roll who contributes the first paper in this issue is Associate professor of history in the
                    Indiana State Teachers College at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He has been gathering material on  the political
                    career of Colonel Richard W. Thompson for some time and has the manuscript of a biography
                    practically ready for the publisher. Mrs. Etta Reeves French is a resident of 
                        Bloomington
                    . She recently completed the requirements for a master's degree at the
                    University of 
                        Arkansas
                    . Her article in this number is an abridgment of her master's thesis. Mrs.
                    Helen B. Thurman lives in Rennerdale, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . She was born and reared in Indiana, her father, J. C. Bridge, having been the
                    proprietor of a music store in 
                        Logansport
                     for many years. She presents a brief paper on the 
                        Fall Creek
                     Tragedy which all who are interested in that unhappy event will read with appreciation.
                    Miss Mildred C. Stoler is Cataloger of Manuscripts in the Indiana State Library. She is engaged in
                    work which will prove of great value to students of history in the future and which should be
                    approved and aided by all intelligent Hoosiers.
         
         
         
            Comment
            A panic would not be so bad were it not for the after effects. The crash on the stock market, the
                    immediate business failures, the stoppage of speculation, the sharp curtailment of credit, the slump
                    in ordering by retailers—all these phenomena that produce the first shocks of a panic are
                    exciting and stir the trading classes deeply, but they only mark the beginning of a long depression
                    in most instances. The motive power of business becomes gradually and persistently weaker. The
                    giants of the business world get caught in the whirlpool with smaller men and all seem helpless.
                    Those take care of themselves who can, while the rest suffer more or less heavily or completely
                    succumb.
            Americans, in times of prosperity, worship "hard-headed" business men and it is
                    extremely difficult for anyone else to get a hearing. A college professor is not deemed wise enough
                    in matters pertaining to economic affairs to come in out of a thunder shower unless warned by some
                    banker, manufacturer or merchant. In a time of stress and strain when bold men of affairs are
                    silent, the situation is different. With these prefatory remarks, let it be stated that history
                    seems to teach: that bankers lend far too much in periods of prosperity on valuations that are far
                    too high, a consequence being the lending of far too little in times of depression from necessity or
                    fear; that manufacturers expand much too extensively and too readily when business is good, thus
                    multiplying the number of idle plants and idle men in times of adversity; that merchants unduly
                    enlarge their establishments and unduly stimulate sales when customers are in a buying mood, only to
                    face uncalled for disaster with the coming of a great and prolonged lessening in the purchasing
                    power of consumers. The responsibility for the beginning crash may partly rest on speculators, but
                    the inability of the business world to stand the shock and the blame for the long depression that
                    usually follows a panic rests squarely on regular and supposedly sane business men who exercise
                    little restraint when production, buying and selling are on the up-grade. One sure way to aid in the
                    destruction of a reasonable and legitimate prosperity is for men absorbed  in industry and trade to allow themselves to be swept along by an
                    excessive and still growing current of expansion.
            The perfection of machines capable of producing an ever vaster quantity of goods, advertising on a
                    colossal scale, the development of high-powered salesmanship, the almost unlimited expansion of
                    credit—these factors cause trade and production to outrun the buying power of the public.
                    The theory that consumers persuaded to extend greatly their purchases can be led to expand
                    indefinitely is false. The soothing conception that instalment buying tends to stabilize business is
                    untrue. The "buy now" slogan used in a wide-spread effort to revive business after
                    the present depression had settled down on the country was of little avail for an obvious
                    reason—multitudes had bought then and could neither buy
                        now nor pay for what had been purchased then. Recurring business crises
                    teach emphatically the lesson that to eliminate them or minimize their effects periods of excessive
                    prosperity or "boom times" must be prevented.
            Men and women who remember the panic of 1893 and the prolonged depression that followed must be
                    impressed by striking contrasts, as well as similarities, between those dismal years and current
                    times. The "
                        Cleveland
                     panic" truly had a setting different from that of the "Hoover
                    panic." The former arrived at the beginning of a Democratic and expected-to-be anti-tariff
                    administration, while the latter broke on the country in the midst of a Republican and less or more
                    pro-tariff administration. Gold was scarce in 1893, but plentiful in 1929. Hosts of laborers could
                    be influenced to vote by the promise of a "full dinner-pail" in 1896, but, while
                    dining is still a very necessary habit, the battle cry that was deemed so appropriate in the
                    presidential canvass of a generation ago will carry no party to victory in 1932.
            In those last years of the nineteenth century, there were no movies, no stadiums, no world series, no
                    radios, no filling stations, no automobiles (except the horseless buggy of 
                        Elwood
                     Haynes, which the Editor saw in operation on the streets of 
                        Kokomo
                     in the spring of 1898, and a few others that appeared before the dawn of the new
                    century). Livery stables were everywhere and bicycles infested the land. Great was the fear of the
                    "scorcher", who was regarded as a dangerous menace to  pedestrians. Manufacturers and merchants declared that business was
                    stagnant and, to one who visited factories and shopping centers, the evidence was fully apparent.
                    Industry and trade were dead indeed. All activities were reduced to the lowest terms. People who had
                    nothing to do and no reason for going anywhere usually stayed at home. Roads and streets were quiet.
                    Amusements and sports attracted limited numbers.
            Today streets and highways are congested with cars, buses and trucks. Everyone is doing something or
                    going somewhere, with or without reason. Colossal numbers attend the games between the Cardinals and
                    the Athletics in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    , while gigantic stadiums are filled to capacity to witness football contests. People
                    buy cars, clothing, food, everything in fact, in vast quantities. Even so, they do not buy enough.
                    Unemployment exists on a scale never before equaled. Business failures occur with great frequency.
                    Unprecedented sums are being raised to care for the needy in every city. There are hosts that are
                    hungry and without fuel, while foodstuffs and coal are abundant and cheap on the farms and at the
                    mines. Man can not lift himself by his bootstraps. He can not ignore or violate the laws of
                    economics. But, within the circle to which he is limited, he can examine and greatly improve the
                    intricate systems of finance and distribution of income which serve the people so inadequately.
                    Whosoever does not recognize the responsibility to do just this is a menace to society.
            It is not possible to define exactly the term pioneer. Of Gecessity the word must
                    have considerable latitude in its application. Whose names have a right to be enrolled among the
                    pioneers of Indiana or among those of any county of the state? To apply the term to those who were
                    residents of any given area when organized as a county and to none who settled in such a county
                    afterwards is to restrict the application of the term too narrowly and even to lose sight of its
                    real meaning. For a state-wide society to settle on a single date for the whole of Indiana and deny
                    membership to all who are descended from persons who migrated to the state after that year, seems
                    likewise to miss the meaning of the term. In addition, to determine  the question in such a manner gives an undue advantage to a number of
                    counties while discriminating against many others.
            In general, pioneers would seem to include all who came to settle on lands never before occupied by
                    civilized men or to make new homes for themselves in villages or towns established in areas still in
                    process of colonization. As everyone knows, a belt near the Ohio River plus
                    narrow strips bordering the state of 
                        Ohio
                     on the East and lying along the 
                        Wabash
                     on the West were first colonized. As the years went by settlers occupied the New
                    Purchase and later central and northeastern Indiana. The prairie counties of the northwestern part
                    of the state were the last to be occupied. Men and women were pioneering in parts of northern
                    Indiana as late as 1850 and 1860, as truly as other settlers had done in the oldest parts of the
                    state in the territorial period.
            It seems that no local society of pioneers nor the Society of Indiana Pioneers should withhold
                    membership from any person whose family located at any time before the Civil War on land which never
                    before such occupation had been reduced to private ownership. For those who came to Indiana, when it
                    was a frontier territory or state, to build a home or start a business in any village or town during
                    its first ten years of existence, the term pioneer should certainly be applied.
                    Whether such a town or village was founded near the Ohio River in 1810 or near
                        Lake Michigan in 1850, surely the necessity for pioneering was much the
                    same.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or other
                    publications, will confer a great favored by writing to the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
            
               Indiana School Journal. Wanted vol. 37, numbers, 7-8 (1892); vol. 38, numbers 6, 9,
                    10, 11, 12 (1893); vol. 40, numbers 4, 9, 10, 11 (1895). Surely some veteran educator can furnish
                    the missing numbers of this Journal, which are much desired.
            National Educational Association, Proceedings. Wanted for 1860, 1864, 1872, 1884,
                    and 1885.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have had a generous response to our appeals for
                    back numbers, especially for those dated later than 1914. We have a serious need for copies of
                    issues from 1905 to 1913. We very much desire to locate the four numbers of volume IV (1908); number
                    one of volume VI (1910); the four numbers of volume VII (1911); the four numbers of vol. VIII
                    (1912). We will buy also further copies of the following issues: Dec., 1921 and Mar., 1922.
            Full sets of the Magazine can not be supplied to libraries or individuals who may
                    desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty-cents a copy or  two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price
                    is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume, except where certain numbers have become very
                    scarce the price is a dollar and a half pereopy, causing the price per volume to vary accordingly;
                    single copies from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, must be priced at a much higher
                    figure.
            Dr. George S. Gottman, the first editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, who now
                    resides at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, R.R. 5, has a complete file of the Magazine which he is
                    willing to sell. The opportunity to purchase an unbroken file from the beginning is unusual. Anyone
                    desiring to purchase should write directly to Mr. Cottman.
         
      
   
