
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 13, Issue 2, pages 99-205. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:13+issue:2+year:1917&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
      
         
         
            Pioneer Politics in Indiana
            By LOGAN ESAREY, Indiana University
            THE formation of their State government is the most important
                    duty that devolves on a community of people. When the State is running smoothly
                    people frequently look upon the politicians as rather a useless, if not a
                    mischievous body of citizens. It is only when the government, either national or
                    local, gets in a bad way that we get serious about the subject. The great crises
                    of society are pretty nearly all political. Communities prosper and live long
                    very largely in proportion to the quality of their government. The chief
                    differences between American and other people are political. The chief
                    distinction between Hoosiers and their neighbors are political. The State
                    government directs our daily business, controls and operates our schools,
                    protects our churches, guarantees our property and protects our lives. Hoosiers
                    are often taunted with being politicians. The charge can hardly be denied and
                    certainly no Hoosier objects to it. In the civil war Indiana sent more troops to
                    battle than she had voters. Politics and patriotism usually go hand in hand. It
                    is not a reproach but a credit to the State that this is as nearly true in
                    Indiana as in any State in the Union.
            Indiana has taken part in twenty-six presidential campaigns. In all but four of
                    these elections the vote of Indiana has gone to the successful candidate. In
                    1836 Indiana voted for 
                        Harrison
                     in preference to Van Buren. Four years later the nation ratified
                    the choice of Indiana. In 1848 the State supported 
                        Cass
                     because Taylor in his official report of the Battle  of Buena Vista in the Mexican war had deeply
                    wronged the Indiana troops and had cast a serious reflection on the honor of the
                    Hoosier name. In 1876 the State gave Tilden a plurality of 5,000 and there are
                    those who think a fair election would have vindicated the choice of Indiana. No
                    other State has quite so good a record.
            It is no accident that Indiana has thus so accurately interpreted the public
                    opinion of the nation. Her people have always been alert politicians, have
                    always welcomed political speakers from all parts of the country, and have
                    always heard them with open minds. There has never been a time when Indiana
                    could be "conceded" to any party.
            Another line of evidence will lead to the same conclusion. In twenty-four
                    presidential campaigns the State has registered its political conviction by
                    popular vote. In 1824, our first national election in which the people voted,
                    the State cast nearly 16,000 votes out of a voting population of 29,000, over
                    fifty per cent. of its voting strength. 
                        Massachusetts
                     cast about three-eights of its voting strength and 
                        Virginia
                     with a voting population of over 215,000 cast nearly 1,000 less
                    votes than Indiana. In 1840 the State cast 117,000 votes out of a possible
                    137,000; 
                        Massachusetts
                     cast 126,000 out of 147,-000; 
                        Virginia
                     cast 86,000 out of 268,000; 
                        Ohio
                     273,000 out of over 300,000; and 
                        Kentucky
                     91,105 out of 160,000. In 1860 Indiana cast over 90 per cent, of
                    its votes. The calculation has not been completed but I have carried it far
                    enough to show that practically all the available voters in the State have
                    always found their way to the polls on election day. The political history of
                    the State is thus doubly interesting because it so nearly parallels that of the
                    nation.
            Almost all the voters, when the State was admitted, were believers in the
                    political teachings of 
                        Jefferson
                    . They belonged to the old Jeffersonian Republican party. A few
                    Federalists such as Judge Charles Dewey and Samuel Merrill might have been
                    found, but they soon affiliated with the Republicans. When Indiana was admitted
                    there was thus only one party, and very little faction in it. The old issues
                    such as slavery and aristocracy which had divided the people in territorial
                    times had disappeared. Even the Constitutional  Convention was almost without political antagonism,
                    certainly there was no partisanship manifested.
            The first political question which stirred the Hoosier pioneers was the
                    fundamental one of Jeffersonian or Jacksonian politics. Those who made the
                    constitution and administered the government under it for twenty years were firm
                    in the Jeffersonian faith. They believed in the masses participating in politics
                    only so far as to vote. The administrators or officers should come from the
                    professional or educated class. This policy would lead to long terms in office,
                    and that to an office-holding class. There being, in a strict sense, no
                    political party in the State the first generation of politicians did not find it
                    necessary to organize in a political way as we have since become accustomed to
                    do. In fact political machinery had not then been developed anywhere.
            It is said, with considerable historical evidence to support the statement, that
                    the political affairs of the first ten years of our history were adjusted almost
                    entirely by three men, a kind of Hoosier Triumvirate. These three men were
                    Governor Jonathan 
                        Jennings
                     of 
                        Clark
                     county, Congressman William 
                        Hendricks
                     of 
                        Jefferson
                     county and Senator James 
                        Noble
                     of 
                        Franklin County
                    . 
                        Jennings
                     served two terms, the constitutional limit, as governor and then
                    became a congressman, serving until intemperance drove him from his office. 
                        Hendricks
                     served six years in Congress, the period during which the State had
                    only one representative, then became governor, changing to the 
                        United States
                     Senate at the end of his term. He served in the 
                        United States
                     Senate till the political tension between 
                        Clay
                     and 
                        Jackson
                     forced him to join a party or retire. He chose the latter and
                    retired. 
                        Noble
                     served in the 
                        United States
                     Senate till his death, February 26, 1831. These men as stated above
                    were Jeffersonian Republicans, but never formally joined either of the new
                    parties. How closely they worked together is largely a matter of speculation
                    though it is certain they never actively opposed each other. They had staunch
                    supporters throughout the State and likewise bitter political enemies.
            It seems that 
                        Jennings
                     was politically the master mind of the Triumvirate. He was a
                    professional politician, devoting  all his
                    time to that occupation. He was as great a letter writer in comparison
                    "as 
                        Jefferson
                     whom he imitated. He made long horseback trips over the southern
                    part of the State electioneering, on which journeys he would frequently be away
                    from home for a month at a time. He likewise made good use of the newspapers not
                    only writing articles himself but enlisting the editors to write in his behalf.
                    His electioneering activities had to be disguised as much as possible as the
                    pioneers objected to that manner of soliciting office. Being an officer he
                    naturally "had business" in all parts of the State and when he
                    "dropped in" at a working, militia muster, circuit court, or
                    camp meeting he was invariably "on his way" some place else.
            
               
                        Hendricks
                     made use of the newspapers, the congressional frank, letter
                    writing, and personal attention to matters in Congress. He was a superior man
                    and a good officer though of no great ability as compared with the leaders in
                    Congress. He had the earnest support of a number of newspapers through his
                    tactful distribution of the publication of local 
                        United States
                     Laws, a perquisite at that time equal to the present county or
                    State advertising. At the end of each session of Congress he wrote up a lengthy
                    review of the session which he published in practically every newspaper in the
                    State. He furnished the newspapers at the earliest possible moment with copies
                    of the president's message which every paper delighted to publish.
                    Public documents galore were sent not only to the editors but to all other
                    important men in the State. He was a hard worker, giving unstinted attention to
                    all public affairs in which his constituents and the State at large were
                    interested. Especially was this true with regard to pensions for Revolutionary
                    soldiers, pay for the rangers of the war of 1812, the militia that served under 
                        Harrison
                    , and appropriations to construct the National Road.
            
               
                        Noble
                     was never a candidate before the people. His eloquence before
                    juries in the circuit court and his participation in the militia musters, in
                    which he was a general and made an imposing appearance on his fine gray horse,
                    kept him prominently before the people.
            It was charged by their political opponents that these men  controlled the politics of the State till about
                    1830 or later. They are said to have held caucuses at the State capital every
                    year to repair their political fences, lay their plans and parcel out the
                    offices for the ensuing year. The statement is doubtless too broad but it just
                    as certainly contains the essential truth of the matter. All three men were
                    lawyers by profession and it was the custom of the State bar to meet at the
                    capital for the November term of the supreme court, just before the annual
                    meeting of the General Assembly of the State and the national Congress. A
                    majority of the members of both bodies were lawyers thus making it an ideal time
                    for such a caucus.
            It was considered bad taste for a candidate to announce himself for office. He
                    was supposed to come out in response to the demand of his friends and it was
                    common for him to insist that he was not a candidate until fairly forced to it
                    by his friends. These announcements were usually provided for at this caucus or
                    one held about the close of the session of the legislature. A paper in the
                    Whitewater Valley, for instance, would observe that a certain man was being
                    urged to run for the legislature in 
                        Harrison
                     county whereupon the candidate's home paper at Corydon
                    would announce that the man was a candidate. It will be recalled in this
                    connection that it was customary for General 
                        Jackson
                     to be mentioned for the presidency by some editor in 
                        New Hampshire
                    , by the legislature of 
                        Tennessee
                    , or a paper in 
                        New Orleans
                     and then the newspapers, say of 
                        Ohio
                    , would quote approvingly. It is still a matter of dispute who first
                    nominated General William Henry Harrison.
            Such were the methods and practices in pioneer Indiana. Each county was a State
                    in miniature so far as politics were concerned. But the offices were pretty
                    successfully harvested by a small group of men. Sixteen of the forty-two members
                    of the Constitutional Convention returned to the first session of the General
                    Assembly. At least six more accepted important offices under the constitution.
                    All told the members of the Convention sat for a total of 154 terms in the
                    legislature, thus making an average of four years' service in that body
                    for each member of the Convention. Considering thirty-six,  the number of members in the first session, to have
                    remained the size of the Assembly, there would have been an average attendance
                    of seventeen of the ex-members of the Constitutional Convention. These of course
                    controlled the legislature. Add to these the members serving on the bench, in
                    the administrative service of the State, and in the federal government and one
                    can readily sympathize with those who cried out against the
                    "office-holding aristocracy."
            There was considerable dissatisfaction with the new constitution. The following
                    quotations from contemporary papers illustrate this.
            
                    CONVENTION
               
                    As few things are better calculated to arouse the attention of the faithful
                        citizen who is jealous of his liberties than an attack upon the charter of
                        his rights, I will, in the first place, present you with "An acfl
                        to authorize the qualified voters of this State, to vote for or against a
                        convention, for the revision of the constitution of this State, at the next
                        annual election." This bill contemplates, that the voter will
                        express upon his ticket, the word Convention, or no Convention, as he may decide.
                    Although the present constitution possesses some inestimable excellencies,
                        upon which it is presumed a subsequent convention would erect a more perfect
                        political edifice, yet it contains a greater number of defects, highly
                        unsuitable to the meridian of Indiana, and the prosperity of her people;
                        which if not expunged, must continue to oppress her citizens with enormous
                        taxation, and keep her treasury poor. Ten thousand dollars are annually
                        spent, in fruitless legislation, and not unfrequently on subjects that might
                        be heard and remedied before the judiciary, with but a comparatively small
                        expense to the government. Such will continue to be the situation of affairs
                        until, by a new constitution the General Assembly is required to convene
                        only once every two years, unless ofteuer called by the executive in cases
                        of emergency.
                    Removing all officers by impeachment without distinction, before so numerous
                        a body as the Legislature, at the cost of rising two hundred dollars per
                        day, it is evident at first blush is an unpardonable misconception of
                        policy, and too prodigal an expenditure of public money, for Indiana, with
                        all her other difficulties to tolerate.
                    The judiciary, which must ever be considered the palladium of our liberties,
                        and the principal check upon the democratical branch of the government,
                        always preserving the vessel of the republic, against the violent waves of
                        popular phrenzy is, it is generally believed, badly calculated to administer
                        equal justice. One of its main appendages, (the Supreme Court), is too
                        remote from the people, which places in the hands of the rich a
                        predominating power over the poor. I might enumerate a  number of other fatal defects in that
                        instrument, but the good sense of my constituents know them already too well
                        by their operation; and with that knowledge will discover the reasons of the
                        proposed alteration.1
               
                
            The publication of this provoked the following answer by the editor, a typical
                    Jeffersonian Republican of the office-holding class. Note his insinuation that
                    Governor Ray favored the introduction of slavery, though he must have known that
                    no man in Indiana had less admiration for the system than Mr. Ray.
            
                    CONVENTION
               
                    Junius, a newspaper writer in favor of a Convention, has attempted to point
                        out some defects, which he wishes amended, for some of which he proposes a
                        remedy, and for others none. He thinks that if the constitution was so
                        amended that the Legislature would meet only biennially, there might be a
                        saving of the expense of an annual session. If an annual session is a
                        grievous defect in our constitution then are the constitutions of chiefly
                        all the States in the Union likewise defective, and it is extremely
                        unfortunate that some of the older States have lived so long in this error
                        without discovering it. The same objection might operate against the
                        constitution of the 
                            United States
                        , which authorizes an annual meeting of Congress, and who ever
                        thought a biennial meeting of Congress would be a saving of money. So
                        general is the precedents of annual meetings of Legislatures throughout the
                        history of government that it is not reasonable to expect that a convention,
                        if called, would alter the constitution in that particular. Reference to the
                        States which have biennial sessions produces no flattering argument in favor
                        of it. The General Assembly of the State of 
                            Illinois
                         met last winter on the first Monday of December and adjourned
                        about the 20th of February, which was about double the time our Assembly
                        sat. If our's should meet but once in two years, but at the same
                        time, when it does meet, should sit double the length of time, like 
                            Illinois
                        , what do we save thereby? Nothing. But if the Legislature might
                        produce the proposed saving without violating the constitution, there is no
                        necessity for calling a convention for the purpose of effecting this change
                        in it. This might be done two ways. First, By apportioning the
                        representation so as to have only half the number of members; the expenses
                        would be reduced one-half; second, if the Legislature, with its present
                        number of representatives, would curtail the session to one-half the time,
                        the pay and expenses would be diminished in like proportion. If either or
                        both of these methods are practicable, at all times, for the Legislature,
                        without contravening any provision of the constitution, there is no reason,
                        on this account, to incur the expense of a Convention to do what the General
                        Assembly might do, if thereto disposed.
                    
                  
                     1 Extract from a speech by J. B. Ray, at 
                                Brookville
                            , February 12, 1823, in the Corydon Gazette, February 26, 1S23, p. 3.
               
                    
                    The same writer thinks that Associate Judges are only a clog to justice, and
                        might be dispensed with; and goes into a detailed calculation of the
                        expenses of that office to the State generally, and the counties in
                        particular, without proposing any substitute therefor, with or without
                        expense. Abolish the office of Associate Judges, and who then shall attend
                        to the probate business in the several counties? If this be made the duty of
                        the Circuit Judges, it cannot be expected without expense to the counties or
                        State nor can it reasonably be expected that the business will be done as
                        safely for the interest of the orphans, by a person who is a stranger and
                        consequently unacquainted with the circumstances of administrators and their
                        securities. Scarce a session of the Legislature has passed without an effort
                        being made to abolish the office of county commissioners, which is a part of
                        the same system of government, and it could not be done, though there is no
                        constitutional objection. We take this as a clear intimation of the will of
                        the people, that they are satisfied with the system of government and the
                        organization of the Circuit Courts; and if a convention was called, the
                        office of Associate Judges would be retained. If so, it would be folly to
                        call a convention on this account.
                    Junius also complains of that part of the constitution which constitutes the
                        Senate a court of impeachment, for the trial of petty officers, such as
                        Justices of the Peace, and of the expenses attendant on such trials; yet he
                        proposes no substitute. Any substitute might be without precedent, and
                        therefore exceptionable. Most, if not all, the constitutions of the States,
                        as well as of the 
                            United States
                        , contain this provision. Would the people consider the rights
                        of their officers secure, if amenable to any other tribunal? Or should the
                        tenure of even the office of Justice of the Peace be less guarded than that
                        of governor? Both are derived from the people, and both are necessary in the
                        organization of government. What would the people of Indiana think of a high
                        court of impeachment formed of two or more magistrates to try the governor,
                        impeached with some high crime or misdemeanor? Would any court less than the
                        Honorable Senate be acceptable in such a case? Then if not for the trial of
                        a governor, why for the trial of the pettiest commissioned officer under the
                        State government?
                    As to the expense of this mode of trial, we have little to complain of as
                        yet. During the seven years' existence of the State government,
                        four cases of impeachment have been tried before the Senate. Two were Clerks
                        of the Circuit Court, and two were Justices of the Peace. Only one of the
                        four cases resulted in a conviction. Where is there to be found an example
                        of greater moderation than this? The State would have been fortunate indeed
                        could it have exhibited a similar example of 
                            economy
                         in the articles of speechifying, and calling for the Ayes and
                        Noes, on questions of little importance. Nevertheless, the convention mania
                        has never driven its votaries to such excess, as to attempt an embargo on
                        words, though the speech may be nothing better than sounding  nonsense, or to curtail the privilege of
                        recording the Ayes or Noes of an honorable servant of the people, though it
                        may be on a question of adjournment.
                    James B. Ray, a senator from the county of 
                            Franklin
                        , in an address to his constituents, objects to the organization
                        of the Judiciary System, under our constitution, particularly the Supreme
                        Court, which is "too remote from the people," and though
                        he proposes no substitute definitely, yet if he means anything, he wishes a
                        Supreme Court to be held in every county within the State, and like 
                            Ohio
                        , twice in every year. He, too, is vociferous in the flattering
                        and plausible argument of 
                            economy
                         and saving of public money. How it is to be accomplished by his
                        scheme of Supreme Court remains for him to demonstrate. To have two sessions
                        of the Supreme Court annually in each county would require, at least, double
                        the number of judges, and consequently double the amount of salary. And it
                        would require the additional attendance of juries and otherwise, of farmers,
                        merchants, mechanics, etc., to whom the loss of time is the loss of money.
                        This scheme might verily produce some good berths for some attorneys, as
                        additional judges, and for their friends, as clerks of the courts; but how
                        money is to be saved, or the poor benefited thereby, is beyond our humble
                        comprehension.
                    The only remaining defect, in our constitution, which has hitherto been
                        publicly adverted to, has been noticed by our brethren of the type in the
                        State of 
                            Kentucky
                        ; which is, that it does not admit of Slavery. A call of a
                        convention, we have no doubt, is quite a popular theme throughout 
                            Kentucky
                        , and why? Because they would wish our constitution so amended
                        as to admit the introduction of slavery into our State. It would afford such
                        a fine market for their negroes. And forsooth a great many, with droves of
                        blacks, would become settlers on our fertile lands. Soon would our forests
                        fall by the hand of Africa's sable sons; while the echo of the
                        whip, and the horrid shrieks of suffering humanity would musically greet the
                        ears of freemen. If such practice comports with the principle of justice in
                        government, by the laws of God or man, and if the majority of the freemen of
                        Indiana wish to enrich themselves by this traffic, then they will vote for a
                        convention to expunge from the palladium of our liberty this obnoxious
                        prohibiton. It cannot be true that a majority of our citizens would desire
                        the introduction of slavery; though we shrewdly suspect that slavery is the
                            summum bonum of the prime movers of a convention; and
                        however secret it may now be kept behind the curtain, if the rote should eventuate in a convention, it would burst forth in an
                        impetuous torrent.
                    We shall vote against a convention, because we think it impolitic. We admire
                        the wisdom and policy of those sages, who formed our constitution, in
                        prescribing periods of twelve years for the revision of the first principles
                        of our government. It gives reasonable scope to benefit by experience; foils
                        the intrigues of factious demagogues and allays the capricious fervor of the
                        disappointed office hunters, whose only hopes are nurtured by thundering
                        clamor and continual change. The dire effects  of the frequent changes of statutes is almost
                        intolerable on community; but the frequent changes in constitutions or first
                        principles of government is the direct road to anarchy. If the present
                        attempt, by the Legislature should result in a convention, any constitution
                        formed thereby, however perfect it may be, will have its opposition; and we
                        may reasonably calculate, as the precedent is once set, that annual
                        applications will be made to the Legislature for a call of a convention, by
                        the discontented. Thus the convention fervor will be excited from year to
                        year, strange objections started and new principles advocated among the
                        people, until the body politic becomes completely sceptical, and this asylum
                        of liberty be plunged into a sink of iniquity and corruption. We have now,
                        all things considered, a pretty good constitution. But few States in the
                        Union can boast of a better. A convention now might produce one infinitely
                        worse. Our State is growing up with great rapidity, by emigrants from almost
                        every section of the 
                            United States
                        , as well as other countries with their various habits, feelings
                        and sentiments, which will require time to amalgamate; therefore we
                        conclude, that good policy should dictate the propriety of waiting the
                        constitutional period for Indiana to revise her constitution.2
               
                
            The Indiana Farmer of 
                        Salem
                     joined in the argument as quoted below. It was especially fearful
                    of the slavery question.
            
                    In order to prepare the public mind on the subject of calling a convention to
                        amend the constitution, we have this day extracted a piece from the 
                            Louisville
                        
                        Public Advertiser, and shall hereafter embrace every
                        opportunity of giving our readers information on the subject. The editor of
                        that paper seems to congratulate his readers on the prospect of 
                            Illinois
                         and Indiana becoming slave holding States, and very humanely,
                        as he supposes, suggests the propriety of such a measure, in order to
                        relieve and ameliorate the condition of the slaves, by spreading them over a
                        greater extent of country. He says this subject "seems to be
                        entirely overlooked by the opponents of conventions." But so far as
                        we are acquainted with the views of the Indiana legislature, in authorizing
                        a vote for a convention, the subject of slavery was not made a question;
                        consequently the doctrine of diffusing slaves would not properly come under
                        discussion. As it respects this subject, when the introduction of slavery is
                        the question. it is never overlooked by the opponents, but viewed with an
                        impartial eye, both as it respects the policy and the justice of the
                        measure. It has often been handled in this State; and but a few years since,
                        when the 
                            Missouri
                         question was under discussion, the newspapers, throughout the
                        Union, teemed with arguments, pro and con, on the policy of this diffusion,
                        and the subject was too forcibly illustrated to be obliterated from the
                        public mind in so short a period. The arguments in favor of this dispersion
                        might appear truly logical to minds already biased in 
                     
                        2 Corydon Gazette, April 2
                                and 9, 1823.
                  
                         favor of the principles of slavery, but
                        can never be recognized as such by those who view the subject in its proper
                        light.
                    The question may, in our opinion, be viewed in all its bearings. Indiana is
                        an independent, and in many respects a separate State, and the policy of
                        introducing slavery should embrace the principles in every respect, as much
                        as if she belonged to a separate and distinct nation, with no other country
                        within a thousand miles of her that tolerated the practice; and we make no
                        hesitation in pronouncing him no less a barbarian who would advocate it than
                        the one who first conceived and put the principles into practice.
                    Humanity forbids, view the question as we may, the introduction of slavery,
                        and let whatever be said about dispersing them, in order to lessen human
                        misery, to the contrary notwithstanding. But for once suppose this State
                        should admit slavery, and in consequence of which, a hundred thousand slaves
                        would be introduced from other States, would it not leave a vacancy for the
                        introduction of as many more, to fill their places? Most unquestionably, and
                        which would be filled by importations, smuggled into our country by a
                        variety of ways. If we enhance their value, we increase the inducements for
                        smuggling them, which will be done as long as it can be made profitable, and
                        the people will connive at it. Such is the disposition of kidnappers and
                        slave-drivers, that the prospect of a profitable trip to Africa, aided and
                        defended by their friends at home, would, and we have no doubt does, induce
                        hundreds of them to run all risks of apprehension from the officers of the
                        government.
                    Increase the value of slaves and we add to human misery; diminish the value,
                        and we lessen it. Slavery should be confined to as small limits as possible,
                        and the justice and policy of emancipation will be the sooner discovered.3
               
                
            These selections have been quoted at length not only to show the political
                    thoughts prevailing at the time but more especially to show where the new
                    constitution was causing friction.
            The settlers of Indiana were intensely democratic. As an evidence of this they
                    had made most of the official terms short and in the two most important,
                    governor and sheriff, had limited the succession to two terms. One can imagine
                    with what feelings they now beheld the offices monopolized by this small group.
                    The Hoosiers are sometimes over-patient with politicians but sooner or later
                    they have always put an end to any political situation that did not suit them.
                    In this early instance they were not slow to challenge the officeholders.
            Means of attack were sought and soon found. Someway 
                  
                     3 Corydon Gazette, April 9,
                            1823, p. 3., quoting the Indiana Farmer.
               
                     the common voters must be organized and
                    brought to the polls. The newspapers had a very limited circulation and the
                    editors had a very limited vision of the political field. There were no roads
                    and public meetings were largely neighborhood affairs. Only at rare intervals
                    did a man acquainted with the political situation from a distant part of the
                    State, visit a neighborhood and ten chances to one he was a politician of the
                    office-holding class; if not he was a circuit riding Methodist preacher who paid
                    no attention to politics. The church and the militia organization doubtless
                    offered the solution for the political situation in 1824, the former for a State
                    organization the latter for a local organization.
            The situation reached a critical period in Indiana in 1824. There were several
                    important issues dividing the people. Besides the rising discontent against the
                    office-holders, there was the question of the caucus, both local and national,
                    the manner of choosing the presidential electors, (they had been chosen by the
                    General Assembly in 1816 and 1820) and the question of the relation of a
                    representative to his constituents. This latter question was usually called the
                    "right of instruction." This question is still alive; one
                    might say "perniciously" alive in 1912. The Democrats insisted
                    that their representative should vote according to his platform or resign. A
                    number of Democratic members actually resigned their positions rather than vote
                    contrary to the known wishes of their constituents. In the legislative journal
                    are a number of instances in which Democrats explained their votes by saying
                    they were instructed to vote as they did. On the other hand the Whigs as a rule
                    went on the theory that in the election a superior man was chosen but left free
                    to vote as he thought best under the conditions as they arose. A testy Whig in a
                    Whitewater convention said they might as well send an ass to the legislature
                    with instructions tied to his pack saddle as to send an instructed
                    representative. This alternative seems to have been taken in some cases.
            It soon came about that those who opposed the caucus, favored electing
                    presidential electors by popular vote, and insisted that all representatives
                    carry out the instructions of their constituents, were supporters of 
                        Jackson
                    . They thus  stood for a greater
                    democracy and gradually accepted the name of Jacksonian Democrats in opposition
                    to all those who took the opposite side of these questions and came to be known
                    in Indiana as 
                        Clay
                     men, 
                        Clay
                     Republicans and finally Whigs.
            The following account from Niles' Register, February
                    7, 1824, shows the sentiment of the people on caucuses. Its fate in the General
                    Assembly shows what the office-holders thought of the resolution.
            
                    WHEREAS, the encouragement given to caucus nominations for
                        the office of President and Vice-President of the 
                            United States
                         excites in us the liveliest apprehensions for the safety of the
                        Union, because we believe it to be a practice tormenting the people in the
                        exercise of their dearest franchise, at war with their feelings and the
                        principles of their political institutions, nourishing the growth of party
                        intrigue, which carries in its train every species of dangerous and
                        degrading corruption; and a practice which if not checked in its progress
                        will ultimately undermine the sacred rights, the prosperity and happiness of
                        the American people, therefore in obedience to our duty to the State we
                        represent, to our fellow citizens of the Union be it
                    
                  Resolved, by the House of Representatives of the General
                        Assembly of the State of Indiana; that it is the right of the people
                        reserved by them in the constitution to elect the President and the
                        Vice-President of the 
                            United States
                        , and that any attempt by congressional nominations, in caucus
                        or otherwise, to exercise this invaluable privilege unless authorized by the
                        constitution, should be regarded by the American people as a dangerous
                        encroachment on their rights, tending to ruin the Republic.
                    
                  Resolved further, that his excellency, the governor, be
                        requested to transmit to our senators and representatives in Congress this
                        plain and matured opinion expressed by the House of Representatives of the
                        people of this State.
                
            This was indefinitely postponed by a vote of 36 to 8.
            The commissioned and non-commissioned officers of the State militia in their
                    State meeting in April, 1823, resolved "That we do highly appreciate
                    the valuable services of 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     and do most cordially recommend him as a suitable person to fill
                    the office of chief magistrate of the 
                        United States
                    ." Previous to this the rank and file of the 
                        Harrison
                     county militia, after their usual exercises on muster day formed
                    themselves into one of the first county conventions spoken of in history.
            
            
                    HARRISON COUNTY, IA., June 17, 1820.
                    At a meeting of the delegates appointed by the different Militia Companies,
                        held at the house of Jacob Conrad, in the 
                            Harrison
                         district, for the purpose of nominating fit persons to be
                        supported for the next General Assembly; Mr. Jonathan Wright was unanimously
                        called to the chair, and Mr. Barnabas Baxley appointed secretary; after
                        which the house adopted the following resolutions:
                    1. Resolved, That Patrick Shields be recommended to the
                        voters of this district as a suitable person to be supported at the ensuing
                        election to represent us in the Senate to fill the vacancy occasioned by the
                        resignation of the Hon. Dennis Pennington.
                    2 Resolved, That Jacob Zenor, Jacob Kintner, and 
                            Henry
                         Green, be recommended to the voters of this district as
                        suitable persons to be supported at the ensuing election to represent us in
                        the House of Representatives.
                    3. Resolved, That George Bentley be recommended to the
                        voters of 
                            Harrison
                         county, as a suitable person to be supported at the ensuing
                        election, to serve us as a county commissioner.
                    The committee would observe, as it has been a course heretofore not pursued
                        in this State, that in adopting the foregoing resolutions, they do not wish
                        to dictate to the people; but it has been a course pursued by States older
                        than the one of which we have become citizens; and we take this occasion to
                        express the opinions of the different Militia Companies, of which we are the
                        representatives, and would state that in our opinion, the people ought, if
                        they attend to the interests and feelings of the farmers and mechanics of
                        this district, to support the candidates which they have designated in the
                        above resolutions.
                    The committee would solicit the Militia Companies of the counties generally
                        throughout the State, to hold similar meetings to the one which is now held,
                        to nominate persons to represent us in the different branches of the State
                        government; as it is our wish, not only to provide for ourselves. but for
                        our offspring, against the endeavors of those who wish to misrepresent our
                        feelings and subvert the interests of our country. We explicitly state that
                        we wish to support the farmer and mechanicthey are the mainstay
                        of our countrythey are the firm supporters of our republican
                        constitution; and we, as a committee, wish to prevent an evil which has long
                        prevailed, vis: of electing persons who do not really feel
                        an interest in the general welfare.
                    It is recommended by this committee, to the Militia Companies of this
                        district, and to the Militia Companies of the State generally, to appoint,
                        at the ensuing April Muster, two men for each company, to meet at any place
                        and time which may be designated by them, for the purpose of nominating
                        persons calculated to represent their feelings and interests.
                    The committee to be appointed under the wish expressed in the foregoing
                        paragraph, for the county of 
                            Harrison
                        , will meet at the Court House, in Corydon, on the first
                        Saturday of May next, at 11 o'clock, a. m.
                    
                    The committee respectfully request the Editors of the Indiana
                            Gazette of Corydon to publish the foregoing preamble and
                        resolutions, once a week, until the day of election.4
               
                    JONATHAN WRIGHT, Chairman.
                    
                  Attest: BARNABAS BAXLEY, Secretary.
               
                
            This was held at the tavern of Jake Conrad, who had entertained the delegates to
                    the Constitutional Convention in 1816. By the following year the 
                        Harrison
                     county voters had developed or imported the idea of a county
                    delegate convention as shown by the following quotation: 
                        DELEGATE MEETING
                  
                        On Saturday next the citizens of the different townships meet to choose
                            delegates to nominate suitable persons to represent the county of 
                                Harrison
                             in the next Legislature. This method may answer a very
                            salutary purpose in getting forward modest men of talents whose
                            interests may be identified with the great agricultural and farming
                            interests of the country; and have a tendency of putting down that
                            uncouth and baneful method of a candidate starting up, and to gain a
                            popularity riding all around the country to electioneer for himself,
                            treating at every town or grog shop he comes to as long as he has money
                            or credit. To the dishonor of 
                                Harrison
                             county and to the prejudice of the correct principles of
                            morality and the good order of society, was witnessed too much of the
                            baneful effects of this whiskey business at the last annual election. We
                            hope that the future progress of the delegates will be to set their
                            faces against this enormous evil, and leave out of view such as they may
                            discover attempting to gain popularity, either by treating or
                            electioneering round the country for themselves. It is a practice which
                            belongs not to the character of republicans, but to Demagogues, who will
                            sell the rights of their constituents as readily as they would beg their
                            votes with a half pint of whiskey, if opportunity offers. The practice
                            ought to be detested by every moral, good citizen and therefore every
                            effort to put an end to it should be promoted.4
                  
                    
            
            The evidence is that nearly all the militia men favored 
                        Jackson
                    . Almost at the same time a similar meeting was formed in a similar
                    way at Point Commerce, in 
                        Greene
                     county.
            
                    PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
               
                    At a meeting of a number of the citizens of the upper part of 
                            Greene
                         county, in Indiana, on the Cth of June, 1823, in order to make
                        known 
                     
                        4 Corydon Gazette, June 22,
                                1820, p. 3.
                     
                        4 Corydon, Indiana Gazette,
                                March I, 1821, p. 3.
                  
                         their sentiments concerning the
                        presidential election, being emigrants from the following States, viz:
                        
                     Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, North
                                Carolina, South
                            Carolina, Georgia,
                                Kentucky, Tennessee
                   and 
                            Ohio
                        , their partialities in favor of any particular men or section
                        of this Union they trust has no influence amongst them; for the public good
                        ought to be the polar star of every freeman and cordiality ought to be
                        nourished by the people on all important measures in a free government. For
                        it is the skill and courage of republicans, aided with a concert that always
                        ought to unite them, like a band of brothers, that makes them strong; for we
                        see them, when numerically weak, often defeating overgrown armies of slaves
                        and mercenaries, and baffling the intrigues of the greatest potentates.
                    We wish for tried and dauntless patriots, men of deliberation, yet prompt to
                        execution, to be at the helm of our governmentAndrew 
                            Jackson
                         and De Wit 
                            Clinton
                         stood firm during the reign of terror in '99 and 1800.
                        Their exertions at 
                            New Orleans
                         and 
                            New York
                         show that they acted an ample part in defending our country
                        during the late war [1812]. Believing, therefore, that they are undeviating
                        republicans and statesmen too, by this meeting it is unanimously
                    
                  Resolved, That they recommend Gen. Andrew 
                            Jackson
                        , of 
                            Tennessee
                        , as a suitable person for the next President; and De Wit 
                            Clinton
                        , of 
                            New York
                        , for the next Vice-President of the 
                            United States
                        .
                    
                  Resolved, That it is the desire of this assemblage to
                        cherish harmony amongst the people of this union; and for good cause made
                        manifest, this meeting will not hesitate to transpose the grades of these
                        two gentlemen, or even recede from this nomination altogether.
                    
                  Resolved, That the people of this republic on this occasion
                        ought to meet not only in cities and towns, but on their farms and in the
                        forests. and express their opinions, and have them published, throughout the 
                            United States
                        .
                    
                  Resolved, That although this meeting is in the wilds of
                        Indiana, it entreats the people of every section of this republic to
                        response.
                    
                  Resolved, That these proceedings be transmitted to the
                        editors of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Gazette, with a request to publish them in their next
                            paper.6
               
                    J. STOKELY, Moderator.
                
            It became customary to take straw votes at the county musters. These showed a
                    strong majority of the young men favoring 
                        Jackson
                    . The lawyers practically all favored 
                        Clay
                     or 
                        Adams
                    . The business men all supported 
                        Clay
                    . Among the churches the Quakers supported 
                        Clay
                     while the Baptists usually supported 
                        Jackson
                    .
            The law providing for the selection of electors on a State ticket, enacted
                    January 14, 1824, was the immediate occasion 
                  
                     6 Corydon Gazette, July 9, 1823,
                            p. 3, quoting the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette.
               
                     for the invention of the political
                    machinery which soon will have been in service in our State a century. The 
                        Clay
                     and 
                        Adams
                     men in 1824 soon agreed on electoral tickets. These tickets were
                    composed of State officers and hailed direct from caucuses at the capital. There
                    were no 
                        Jackson
                     men in office and only one or two of the newspapers of the State
                    favored him. In a short time, however, they had three 
                        Jackson
                     electoral tickets in the field. It was clear that this confusion
                    would lead to defeat. As a solution of the matter the editor of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, a personal friend and partisan of 
                        Jackson
                    , in the issue of July 31, 1824, outlined a scheme of county and
                    State conventions. He urged all the friends of 
                        Jackson
                     to meet in their respective counties sometime in August and appoint
                    one or more delegates to a State convention to be held in 
                        Salem
                    , the political capital of early Indiana, on Thursday, after the
                    first Monday in September, to nominate an electoral ticket in favor of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    , issue an address to the people and make such other arrangements
                    for the campaign as seemed necessary. The followers of 
                        Jackson
                     met in a large number of counties and formed county and township
                    organizations. The movement was new and popular. The old politicians did not
                    manifest the concern they must have felt. The counties of 
                  Fayette, Gibson,
                            Jefferson, Orange, Clark, Lawrence, Shelby,
                            Switzerland, Knox, Ripley
                and 
                        Washington
                     were represented in the convention. It is not necessary to go into
                    all the details of this our first State convention and, it is believed, either
                    the first or second real State convention of which history has any record.
            The battle then staged in Indiana was a strange one. There was scarcely a State
                    officer or a man of State-wide reputation then in the 
                        Jackson
                     party. Samuel Judah who wrote the first platform, or, as it was
                    called, "an address to the People" was a man of great ability,
                    but then an unknown young lawyer of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Samuel Milroy, ancestor of the Milroy family of Indiana, was then
                    an ordinary farmer, living near 
                        Salem
                    ; David Robb of 
                        Princeton
                     was a young Irishman not long from Erin; Dr. Elias McNamee was a
                    physician of 
                        Vincennes
                    ; John Carr was a farmer of Clarke county, who had served as sheriff
                    and was later to serve in Congress; Jonathan  McCarty, a young man of 
                        Franklin County
                    , was just entering on a long official career in the State. These
                    were the first 
                        Jackson
                     electors. There were two score of 
                        Clay
                     and 
                        Adams
                     men in the State better known than the most noted of these. Some of
                    these men had sat in the Constitutional Convention and, in general, the two
                    conventions compare favorably in the mediocrity of their members. Their
                    opponents called the 
                        Jackson
                     men "yeomen" or small farmers, peasants. A State
                    Committee of three men was appointed to manage the State campaign; a county
                    Committee of Correspondence, consisting usually of three men was in charge of
                    the county campaign, while a Vigilance Committee looked after the individual
                    voters in each township. With this organization the 
                        Jackson
                     men carried the State by a plurality of 2,028 over 
                        Clay
                     and 4,250 over 
                        Adams
                    .
            This contest between Democrats and Whigs continued till 1852 with very little
                    change in the alignment of the principal contestants. The fight seemed most
                    intense in presidential years, but the general situation remained unchanged. The
                    experienced politicians were Whig while the Democrats had a close military
                    organization. Of the fifty-seven delegates to the Whig convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1828 all seem to have been office-holders and nearly all were
                    members of the State government. To all intents and purposes it was a
                    legislative caucus. Forty-one of the fifty-six counties were represented. It
                    seemed that all the State officers were there and such was the case. From 1828
                    to 1843 the State government was in the hands of the Whigs.
            On the other hand a very large proportion of the local, county and township,
                    officers were Democrats. While the "honorable" members of the
                    General Assembly were caucusing for the good of the Whig party the township
                    listers, each in his little field, were taking a poll of the individual voters
                    and passing it on up to the Vigilance Committee for its inspection. The Whigs
                    had the talent and, when they came to use it, the oratory, but the Democrats had
                    the organization and won five of the seven Presidential campaigns from the
                    Whigs.
            While this was primarily a struggle for greater democracy there was also another
                    broad distinction between the parties.  The
                    State Whigs gradually became influenced by the national party, supporting the
                    tariff, internal improvements, and the bank. It was a business men's
                    party. During the period from 1828 to 1843, while the State was securely under
                    control of the Whigs, every effort of the State was bent toward aiding the
                    commercial interests of the State, assisting banks, canals and railroads. It can
                    hardly be said that the Democrats made a wholehearted opposition to this
                    commercial policy of the Whigs, but on the other hand it cannot be said that
                    they were directly responsible. As long as this policy was successful the Whigs
                    were invincible in State elections, though as stated above the Democrats carried
                    the national elections. During this period the Whigs established the Second
                    State Bank, built the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, opened up the streams to navigation and finally bankrupted
                    the State in the endeavor to build a system of pikes, canals and railroads. The
                    first part of this period from 1826 to 1836 was an era of great prosperity. The
                    Whigs could point to the thousands of flatboats, carrying every year their
                    cargoes of produce to 
                        New Orleans
                    ; to the stage coaches coming and going between
                            
                  Cincinnati, Richmond
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; to 
                        Madison
                    , New 
                        Albany
                    , Leavenworth, 
                  Terre
                        Haute, Vincennes
                and 
                        Evansville
                    ; to 
                  Crawfordsville,
                            Lafayette
               , Lo-gansport,
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Toledo
                    ; or by 
                        South Bend
                     to Niles and 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               . The State Bank was handling the currency of the
                    State in a satisfactory manner and laying up from its savings a snug endowment
                    for the public schools. It is a most pleasing picture. The people were busy,
                    prosperous, and contented. It was not their fault, the Whigs thought, if a
                    Democratic President, Van Buren, brought on the panic of 1837 and destroyed all
                    this prosperity.
            In 1843 the last Whig administration in Indiana came to a close. Three Whig
                    governors had administered the State in succession from 1831. From 1843 three
                    Deomcrats governed in succession till the Civil War.
            The policy of the Democrats was humanitarian rather than commercial. The Whigs
                    investigated the State and found it needed means of commerce, currency and
                    facilities for transportation. The Democrats examined the State and decided its
                    greatest need was more personal attention to the people  themselves. The insane and feeble-minded were then
                    kept in jails with the criminals. The deaf and dumb were uncared for and the
                    blind were left a helpless charge on their friends or placed in the county
                    poorhouses. The growth of illiteracy was startling. In some of the counties
                    one-third of the grown people were unable to read and write. Between 1840 and
                    1850 the percentage of illiteracy grew from 14 per cent, to 22 per cent. There
                    seemed a bankruptcy of citizenship as well as one of commerce. Here, then, the
                    Democrats felt was the proper field for the State's assistance, rather
                    than with the commercial classes. Under James Whitcomb and Joseph A. Wright, the
                    first two Democratic governors, our present system of educational and benevolent
                    institutions was founded.
            Political methods and practices have changed decisively during the century. In
                    the constitution it was provided, by way of experiment, that voting should be by
                    ballot, but if this was not found to be satisfactory the old method of viva voce could be again taken up. In the early years voting
                    was all done at the county seat; thereafter for awhile one could vote either at
                    the county seat or in his home township. Still later the voter was required to
                    cast his ballot in his home precinct. From 1828, when the Whig and Democratic
                    parties became well organized, down to the passing of the Australian Ballot Law
                    there was no essential change in the manner of voting. The party organization
                    usually furnished the ballots with the presidential electors' names
                    printed on them. Other candidates from the governor down had to have their
                    ballots printed and see that they were distributed. All kinds of frauds were
                    perpetrated on the voters. Bogus ballots were plentiful. The most common form of
                    the bogus ballot was a straight party ballot except for one name from the
                    opposing party. For instance, a Whig candidate for sheriff would have a
                    Democratic ticket printed complete except for the sheriff and here put his own
                    name. Another common device was the "paster." This was a thin
                    strip of paper on which was the candidate's name, the back of it being
                    adhesive like a postage stamp. This could be used honestly or dishonestly. The
                    candidate's friends found this an easy way honestly to
                    "scratch" in his favor. If the voter was unwilling to
                    "scratch" it was possible to stick  this on his ticket deftly while looking over the
                    ballot, especially if the voter were drunk. The appearance of the
                    "floater" at the polls was a signal to battle. Not
                    infrequently the "floater" was voted by main force by the
                    strongest party after a half dozen fist fights. Usually one party or the other
                    dominated the grounds before the polls had long been open. In a few places
                    public spirited men of both parties joined together and barred all violence.
                    This latter custom has grown slowly but steadily until in nine-tenths of the
                    voting places today there are no longer scenes of violence. But in the early
                    days the voting place was the chosen arena for drunken fights, the exhibition
                    continuing all day long. Very seldom, however, was there any loss of life.
            Some contemporary descriptions of scenes at the polls are here given to add
                    details to the picture.
            
                    ELECTION
               
                    This occasion has reflected some degree of credit on the county of 
                            Harrison
                        , compared with years that are past. There has been less rioting
                        and drunkenness than heretofore, as a good omen of the increase of correct
                        morals. Whether the candidates have less confidence in whiskey, or whether
                        the voters are rising above the degradation of selling their votes for a
                        dram is difficult to determine; we hope that both have had a salutary
                        influence. Yet there is room to mend, and if all the citizens would reflect
                        on what constitutes the dignity of freemen, few could be found who would
                        barter their votes for whiskey, and candidates whe attempt such would be
                        spurned at.
                    One point is necessary for the consideration of the legislature. The law
                        regulating elections needs amendment. Elections would be conducted with more
                        regularity and order were the voters limited to their own townships, whereas
                        as the law now stands, the great body of the people collect at the county
                        seats, and chiefly those who are fondest of drinking and rioting. This is
                        one great cause of the disorder which prevails. Necessity will soon force an
                        alteration in the law, otherwise the people cannot get their votes, as so
                        many cannot be taken in at one place in one day, and the constitution will
                        not allow more than one day for election.
                    We have not been able to obtain an official return of the late election, but
                        we are informed that 
                            Jennings
                         will have a majority both for the vacancy and the district;
                        William Polke for lieutenant governor, and that Dennis Pennington and Peter
                        Mauk will be the Representatives in the State Legislature.7
               
                
            
               
                  7 Corydon, Indiana Gazette, August
                        8, 1822, p. 3.
            
            
            The following account of early elections is by Noah J. Major. The author was a
                    voter at the 
                        Morgan
                     county polls for two-thirds of a century.
            
                    By 9 o'clock in the morning Martinsville was buzzing and humming
                        like bees in swarming time. The citizens were obscured and ignored lor the
                        time being. The sheriff and constable were supposed to keep order, but they
                        let school keep itself on election day. What could they do with a thousand
                        sons of 
                            Columbia
                        , all chock-full of the spirit of '76 and wringing wet.
                        with sweat? Nothing at all. Many of these could not do anything with
                        themselves by 4 o'clock p.m., and were pulled into the shade to
                        await the return of their senses. Old King Alcohol paralyzed many a chap on
                        every returning first Monday in August. However, the "blowers and
                        strikers" managed to get these "babes and
                        sucklings" to vote "before or after taking,"
                        whichever they could.
                    The old fathers were strong party men; ofttimes in needy circumstances. not
                        worth buying, as is sometimes said, but an attempt to buy their ballots
                        would have been resented with fiery indignation, supplemented by a kick. Men
                        did not stand around in those days, saying as they do now in a half-jocular,
                        half-earnest way, "We are going to vote for the man who has the
                        money." The only approach to undue influence was in the practice of
                        "treating." This was carried on to a scandalous degree,
                        and led to grewsome disorder. From noon till night fisticuffs were freely
                        indulged, and the fighting was fast and furious, but not to kill. While the
                        rules of the Marquis of Queensbury were not strictly observed, if the
                        "under dog" cried "'nough," the
                        top cur was jerked off in a jiffy. Deadly weapons were seldom or never used
                        in these combats. This ruling, which was generally accepted, gave strong men
                        a great advantage over the weaker ones; but the battle is not always to the
                        strong, nor the race to the swift. What was called foul play was often shown
                        when one of the combatants was short of friends. Many of the pending fights
                        were fixed for election day. when the principals could have their seconds
                        hard by. The stray pen was often used as the arena in which the battles were
                        fought.
                    After having their heads shaven and soaped, the combatants stripped to the
                        waist, tied their suspenders around their bodies and walked into the ring,
                        while the crowd stood around the pen from four to six deep, to see the
                        fight. Sometimes, just at this juncture, the friends of the fighters brought
                        about a reconciliation and averted the battle; after which the belligerents
                        washed off the soap, and put on everything as before, excepting their hair,
                        while the crowd dispersed to reassemble at the courthouse. Here the polling
                        booth resembled the ticket wagon on a show day. Men were poking their
                        tickets under the nose of the inspector, faster than tbeir names could be
                        written. Ever and anon there was a dispute between the challengers, which,
                        however, seldom resulted in violence. By a sort of common consent, no
                        fighting was to be permitted near the polls. Sometimes when the throng was
                        so great that the voters  were hindering
                        rather than helping the election to a finish by 6 p.m., and giving every one
                        a chance to vote, a sham fight would begin. This started the crowd on the
                        run from the courthouse and gave the board time to breathe.
                    Tickets could be had anywhere for the asking. They were usually printed with
                        the names of the party candidates in full. As there was likely to be more or
                        less scratching, pasters were supplied for the use of the scratcber, or he
                        could scratch the regular candidate and write his name about the erasure.
                        Some men wrote the entire ticket with a pen, and would vote half a sheet of
                        paper. Many will remember the late Robert Townsend, who sometimes voted in
                        this way: Splitting a long stick, inserting the ballot in the split, and
                        hoisting it in the window over the heads of the bystanders. Mr. Townsend was
                        of a family of very early settlers, simon-pure Democrats, warranted neither
                        to "rip, ravel, nor wear out." Tarties might change
                        routes, go up or down, but the original Townsend never failed to plump a
                        Democratic ticket in the ballot box on the first Monday in August. There
                        were, in those old times, as there are now, floaters, sometimes called
                        "ciphers," but it is noted that even ciphers count in
                        times of elections if they can be placed on the right side of the right
                        figures. The shrewdest local electioneerers were engaged to watch these
                        annual floppers, and turn them over into their respective camps. It was
                        generally seen in the forenoon which party was capturing the largest number
                        of the doubtfuls. But the greatest merriment was late in the day when
                        "the last of the Mamalukes" were running the gauntlet arm
                        in arm with the "buttonholers."
                    As the respective parties gained a point they hissed and laughed like ganders
                        at a goose fight. Let it not be understood from the foregoing sketch that
                        any considerable number of the old-time voters were drunken or disorderly.
                        Such was not the case. Ten or fifteen rowdies, in the absence of a good
                        police force, can keep an uproar going among a thousand civil men.8
               
                
            Yet one more pen picture from the good old days when freemen walked up before the
                    assembled multitude and boldly expressed their preferences, or at least as the
                    old patriarch said they did.
            
                    The price of liberty, eternal vigilance, is well paid in a New Purchase. With
                        us it was watched by all classes, and throughout the year; it was indeed the
                        universal business. Our officers all, from governor down to a deputy
                        constable's deputy and fence-viewer's clerk's
                        first assistant, were in the direct gift of the people. We even elected
                        magistrates, clerks of court, and the judges, presiding and associate! And
                        some who knew better, yet for rabblerousing purposes, gravely contended that
                        trustees of colleges, and all presidents, professors, and teachers should be
                        elected directly by the people!
                    
                  
                     8 Noah J. Major, Pioneers of 
                                    Morgan
                                 County, 374 seq.
               
                    
                    Our social state, therefore, was forever in ferment, forever was some
                        election, doing, being done, done or going to be done; and each was as
                        bitterly contested as that of President or governor. In all directions
                        candidates were perpetually scouring the country with hats, saddle-bags, and
                        pockets crammed with certificates, defending and accusing, defaming and
                        clearing up, making licentious speeches, treating to corn whiskey, violating
                        the Sabbath, and cursing the existing administration or the
                        administration's wife and wife's father! And everybody
                        expected at some time to be a candidate for something; or that his uncle
                        would be; or his cousin, or his cousin's wife's
                        cousin's friend would be; so that everybody, and
                        everybody's relations, and everybody's relations'
                        friends, were forever electioneering till the state of nasty, pitiful
                        intrigues and licentious slanders and fierce hostility was like a rotten
                        carcass where maggots are, each for himself and against his neighbor,
                        wriggling and worming about!
                    Men were turned into mutual spies, and watched and treasured and reported and
                        commented upon, looks words and actions, even the most trifling and
                        innocent! And we were divided, house against house! and man against man; and
                        settlements, politically considered, were clannish and filled with
                        animosity. The sovereign people was, indeed, feared by the candidate who
                        truckled today, and most heartily despised when he ruled
                        tomorrow .
                    We had, of course, in the Purchase a passion for stump-speeching. But
                        recollect, we often mount the stump only figuratively; and very good
                        stump-speeches are delivered from a table, a chair, a whiskey barrel, and
                        the like. Sometimes we make our best stump speeches on horseback. In this
                        case, when the horse is excited by our eloquence, or more commonly by
                        mischievous boys, more action goes with the speech than even Demosthenes
                        inculcatedoften it becomes altogether circumambulatory.
                    Once a candidate stood near the tail of Isam Greenbriar's ox cart at
                        Woodville [
                            Bloomington
                        ], when some of his opponents (perhaps some of his own friends,
                        for the joke was tempting), noiselessly drew out the forward pins, when at
                        the most unexpected instant, ay, in the very climax of his most ferocious
                        effervescence, Mr. Rhodomontade was canted into the dirt!
                    Again, our candidate for fence-viewer, with some half dozen friends, was once
                        hard at work with certificates and speeches in Sam Dreadnought's
                        wagon; when Sam, having several miles to drive before dark, and having
                        already waited two good hours for matters to end, suddenly leaped on his
                        saddle horse, and then, at a word and a crack, away dashed the team loaded
                        with politics, very much to the amusement of the people, but most to the
                        discomfiture of our candidate.
                    Nothing surpasses the munificent promises and at the same time the external
                        and grovelling humility of a genuine rabblerouser, just before an election.
                        He shakes hands with everybody, friend and foe; he has agents to treat at
                        his expense at every doggery; and in his own person  he deals out whiskey and gingerbread, as we
                        have seen, to a long line oi independent voters marching past him with drum
                        and fife to the polls; and he drinks out of any drunken vagabond's
                        bottle, laughing at his beastly jokes, putting his arm round his filthy
                        neck, and allows him-selm thus to be slobbered upon, while patting the brute
                        on the back and being patted in turn!.9
               
                
            As mentioned earlier in this paper, electioneering was not looked upon with favor
                    by the best people, but it may be remarked that it was universally practiced. A
                    typical case is that of General W. 
                        Johnson
                     of 
                        Vincennes
                     who announced in the paper that he would serve his people in the
                    General Assembly if they wanted him but would not electioneer for the office. A
                    series of handbills followed at frequent intervals explaining his position but
                    still insisting that he would not electioneer. On the eve of the election he
                    came out with the following card in his paper: 
                        CITIZENS OF KNOX
                  
                        An American, a child of your State, and a friend of your rights now
                            offers his services to represent you in the legislature. His
                            qualifications are so well known they need no comment. His principles
                            both religious and political, have been tested and passed the Rubicon.
                            Such a one now solicits your suffrages and if he becomes the object of
                            your choice, promises that he will serve you faithfully, and render an
                            account of his conduct.
                    
            
            He was a good, capable man but still he refused to electioneer. Dennis Pennington
                    and John 
                        Tipton
                    , both of Cory-don, declared in the newspapers, they would not
                    electioneer but both were experts at the art and both were high class men.
            There was room for ingenuity in electioneering in the early days just as there is
                    at present. In 
                        Ripley
                     county Merritt Craig, a young lawyer from 
                        Kentucky
                    , was a candidate for the legislature. The prospects for his
                    election were not good. Some bold move must be made. Groceries, as saloons were
                    then called, were odious. He was a big six foot Kentuckian and entirely
                    fearless. The thought struck him and he went to the nearest grocery, threw the
                    owner out of doors, overturned the counter, wrecked the bar, kicked the bung out
                    of the whiskey barrel, said mean things about groceries in general, 
                  
                     9 Baynard R. Hall, The New
                            Purchase, Vol. 1, 209. (First Edition.)
               
                     paid the grocer for all the damage, sent
                    his friends to scatter the news over the county and was triumphantly elected,
                    thus helping to vindicate 
                        Jackson
                    .
            Sometimes outbursts of eloquence were wasted on the pioneers. Judge John Test and
                    Senator 0. H. Smith, then rival candidates for Congress in the Whitewater
                    District had been discussing the tariff for two or three hours when an old
                    grizzly farmer, who had occupied a log in the foreground, arose, shook out his
                    long hair, threw his rifle across his shoulder and started for home, observing
                    to Senator Smith, about the tariff, "I never seen one of 'em
                    but I hearn they are dreadfully hard on sheep."
            Sometimes one comes across a gem among these old electioneering cards. Reuben A.
                    Nelson, a New 
                        Albany
                     attorney, in announcinging his candidacy for Congress in 1817 said:
                        
                        I shall neither attempt to insult your judgment by eulogizing my own
                            talents nor disgust your feelings by a parade of my integrity.
                    
            
            Of course he was defeated; he was more than a century too early with that line of
                    talk.
            Or how is this from a young Democratic orator: 
                        Democracy is a sentiment not to be appalled, corrupted nor compromised.
                            It knows no baseness, cowers at no danger, oppresses no weakness.
                            Fearless, generous, humane, it rebukes the arrogant, cherishes honor and
                            sympathizes with the humble. It asks nothing it will not concede. It
                            concedes nothing it does not demand. Destructive only to despotism, it
                            is the only preserver of liberty, labor and prosperity. It is the
                            sentiment of freedom, equal rights and equal obligations.
                    
            
            A novelty of Governor James B. Ray's candidacy in 1825 was the fact that
                    he publicly announced himself without any solicitation. Niles' Register has this comment on him for thus seeking
                    office: 
                        It may be mentioned, I believe, as a thing without precedent among us
                            that Mr. James B. Kay has publicly offered himself as a candidate for
                            the gubernatorial chair, and in a spirited public address solicited the
                            suffrage of the people, a proceeding which we think cannot be approved
                            of whatever be the merits of the individual in other respects.
                    
            
            Senator Oliver H. Smith says of the congressional campaign of 1825:
                    "Stump speaking was just coming into fashion and the people flocked to
                    hear us by thousands. My opponent had  a
                    good knowledge of the issues and I had a powerful voice," and the
                    Senator won out.
            As soon as 
                        Jackson
                     was installed in office in 1829 he began a wholesale crusade
                    against office holders. Jonathan McCarty became superintendent of the National
                    Road, Samuel Judah became 
                        United States
                     district attorney, 
                        Henry
                     S. Handy, the 
                        Jackson
                     State chairman, became postmaster at 
                        Salem
                    , James P. Drake received the land office at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Dr. 
                        Israel
                     T. Canby was made land officer at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , and Abel Pepper got the land office at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Sooner or later every federal office in the State except the
                    judgeship, was turned over to Democrats, even down to country postoffices whose
                    yearly income was less than five dollars. The Democrats were immensely pleased
                    at this because it gave them, in the land offices, a power equal to that which
                    the Whigs held in the State Bank.
            The political campaign from 1835 to 1840 was the high tide of politics in Indiana
                    before the Civil War. The Democrats perfected their State organization by
                    selecting a State Central Committee of sixteen men. Congressional Committees of
                    five were appointed in each district to look after the congressman and the usual
                    Press and Finance Committees were appointed. This political organization has
                    been changed but very little since then.
            The Whigs opened their campaign with a mass convention of about 1500 men on the
                    Battleground at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The campaign hardly did more than get under way in 1836. The real
                    contest came in 1840. The Democrats had at last found their voices and opened
                    with not less than thirty-five first class speakers on the stump. Robert Dale 
                        Owen
                     spoke for Van Buren at 
                        Spencer
                     October 3, 
                        Greencastle
                     October 5, 
                        Terre Haute
                     October 7, Bowling Green October 8, and 
                        Vincennes
                     October 10. Follow this on the map and see what horseback riding it
                    required. These speeches were not less than two hours in length and were often
                    preceded by some local man who spoke for an hour or so. Richard M. 
                        Johnson
                    , hero of the Thames, and candidate for vice-president with Van
                    Buren, made a tour of the State speaking at 
                        Connersville
                     October 12, 
                        Indianapolis
                     October 14, 
                        Crawfordsville
                     October 16, 
                        Lafayette
                    
                     October 17, 
                        Rockville
                     October 20, 
                        Terre Haute
                     October 21, 
                        Carlisle
                     October 23, 
                        Vincennes
                     October 24, 
                        New Harmony
                     October 26, 
                        Evansville
                     October 28, 
                        Rockport
                     October 29, Troy October 30, and Rome October 31. 
                        Johnson
                     was met ten miles north of 
                        Vincennes
                     by three hundred horsemen and escorted into the city. This was
                    typical of the enthusiasm of the Democrats but they were almost solemn in
                    comparison with the Whigs.
            A part of the itinerary of the Whig candidate for governor, Judge Samuel Bigger,
                    will illustrate the strenuous life of the Whig spellbinders during the campaign.
                    On one of his trips he left 
                        Greensburg
                     on horseback, where he had spoken April 6. On April 7 he spoke at
                    Versailles, April 8 at 
                        Vevay
                    , April 9 at 
                        Madison
                    , April 10 at 
                        Charlestown
                    , April 11 at New 
                        Albany
                    , April 13 at Corydon, April 15 at Leavenworth, April 16 at
                    Fredonia, April 17 at Rome, April 18 at Troy, April 20 at 
                        Rockport
                    , April 21, at Boonville, April 22 at 
                        Evansville
                    , April 24 at Mt. Vernon, April 25 at Cynthiana, April 26 at 
                        Princeton
                    , April 28 at Petersburg, April 29 at 
                        Vincennes
                    , May 1 at Merom, May 2 at Caledonia, May 4 at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , May 6 at Bowling Green, May 7 at 
                        Greencastle
                    , May 8 at Danville, May 9 at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The trip was made on horseback. Bigger was a stalwart six footer,
                    weighing about 250, but the campaigns killed him.
            The Whigs opened their campaign of 1840 with a monster mass meeting at the
                    Battleground, May 29. Delegations came from the nearby States of
                            
                  Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Kentucky
                and 
                        Tennessee
                    . From 
                        Michigan
                     City came a procession with a full-rigged ship, named The
                    Constitution, at its head. It was drawn by six white horses. On its pennant
                    floating to the breeze from the ship's masthead was inscribed 
                        Harrison
                     and Tyler. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the rallying place for parties from the southern part of the
                    State, whence they could go north over the 
                        Michigan
                     Road to the Battleground. Despite the three days rain immense
                    throngs made the trip. The women of 
                        Indianapolis
                     presented the political army with a fine banner and it departed in
                    squadrons of two hundred. Those on horseback led the column, followed by the
                    carriages and the men on foot. The footmen spludged along barefoot through the
                    black mud carrying their shoes in their hands. The column  was said to extend along the road twenty-five
                    miles. The men slept by the wayside in barns, corn cribs, or around hay and
                    straw stacks, single delegations numbering 1,000 men marching in line.
            The scene at the Battleground outdid the descriptive power of the local editors,
                    some of whom estimated the crowd at 40,000. In one spot was a band of survivors
                    of the Revolution, in another stood the heroes of Fort Meigs, in still another
                    the survivors of the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the Levites of this shrine. Three tables, each 100 yards long,
                    loaded with the feast, were filled again and again by the hungry multitude. The
                    old Baptist patriarch, John Vawter, called the nations together, as he termed
                    it, and then turned the meeting over to General Jonathan McCarty. The veterans
                    then gathered at the Battleground Tavern, formed in order, whereupon Judge
                    William Polke produced the tattered banner under which Captain Spier 
                        Spencer
                    's Yellow Jackets had fought and under which the two
                    gallant pioneers 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Warrick
                     had died. Under this banner they marched to the speaker's
                    stand. It was a baptism of patriotism to all present.
            Scores of similar meetings were held in all parts of the State. The State was in
                    a delirium of sentiment from which it seemed impossible for the Democratic
                    orators to recall it. The campaign closed in a torchlight parade at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The crowd was to be addressed by James Whitcomb, a Democrat, and
                    O. H. Smith, a Whig. After waiting till midnight for the parading and noise to
                    cease the speakers good humoredly left their stands and the campaign was over.
            From 1840 to 1860 the barbecue featured as an important event in political
                    campaigns. It and the joint debates characterized this period. In the campaign
                    of 1844 the Whigs selected a State Central Committee of twenty-six members. In
                    addition to these, sixty advocates were selected whose business it was to stump
                    the State. This was the beginning of our present Speaker's Bureau. The
                    Central Committee divided the State into nineteen districts in each of which was
                    held a monster barbecue. To each barbecue from two to five speakers were
                    assigned. The times and dates of these official barbecues were as follows: 
                        Evansville
                     September 14, 
                        Princeton
                     September 18, 
                        Washington
                     September 21, Corydon September  25, 
                        Charlestown
                     September 28, 
                        Madison
                     October 2, 
                        Rockville
                     October 2, Napoleon October 5, 
                        Lafayette
                     October 5, Logans-port October 8, Shelbyville October 9, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     October 12, 
                        Cambridge
                     City October 12, Andersontown October 15, 
                        Goshen
                     October 16, 
                        Bedford
                     October 19, Laporte October 19, 
                        Indianapolis
                     October 22, 
                        Terre Haute
                     October 28. At each of these from two to ten oxen were berbecued.
                    Each meeting lasted two days, during which two to five speakers, stationed on
                    convenient stumps in the grove, spoke to the multitude. It was not uncommon for
                    a speaker to talk from one stump two hours then go to another stump and speak
                    two hours, making as many as four such speeches in the course of the day at the
                    same meeting. The evidence is unmistable that the people in general came as much
                    to hear the great speakers as to eat the roasted beef. Many a man listened
                    during eight hours a day to the argument, gnawing meantime at his beef and bread
                    and washing it down with good cider or corn whisky. The following paragraph from
                    a speech by Governor Ray illustrates the eloquence delivered by the
                    spellbinders. One does not have to go beyond our own history to find out why the
                    Hoosiers are universally interested in politics. They have had a marvelous
                    training.
            
                    The universal developments of the past year, at home and abroad, on this and
                        the other hemisphere, are calculated to raise the whole human family still
                        higher in the scale of creation, in their own estimation, than anticipation
                        ever reached. Many are the indications that the era has just been ushered in
                        for the complete overthrow of the most hateful errors and deadly enemies of
                        the world, and the triumph and spread of regenerated and reasonable
                        principles, based on the enlightened philosophy of the age and the eternal
                        rights of man. Its great events have given birth to the simultaneous jubilee
                        over half the globe, and planted deep in the thrilling souls of millions a
                        hope of deliverance from long oppressions and the race of kings. The press
                        has succeeded in convincing the governed that they were not made to be ruled
                            jure (Uvino but that their rulers
                        belong to them as servants jure humano. The genius of
                        liberty, from soaring triumphant with the Eagle and Star Spangled Banner of
                        America, has taken her flight across the Atlantic, to career for awhile with
                        the lilies and tri-colors of 
                            France
                        . This celebrated flag, the emblem of popular supremacy and
                        prostrate royalty, now waves unmolested over noble and gallant 
                            France
                        .
                
            It is said the governor's voice would carry four hundred yards through
                    the woods.
         
         
         
            Colonel John Paul, Hoosier Pioneer; First Proprietor and Founder of Xenia, 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Madison
                     Indiana
            By BLANCHE GOODE GARBER, 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana
            Chronology
            
               
                  1758
                  Born near 
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     .
               
               
                  1766
                  Moved with parents to Red Stone Old Fort, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
               
               
                  1778
                  Enlisted in command of George Rogers 
                                Clark
                            .
               
               
                  1780
                  Re-enlisted in same.
               
               
                  1781
                  Emigrated to 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
               
                  1793
                  First clerk and coroner of Hardin county, 
                                Kentucky
                            . Resigned 1800.
               
               
                  1800
                  Moved to 
                                Hamilton
                             county, 
                                Ohio
                            , and elected clerk and recorder of said county.
               
               
                  1802
                  Delegate from 
                                Hamilton
                             county to First Constitutional Convention of 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
               
                  1803
                  Member from First District of the first senate of 
                                Ohio
                            . November, founded Xenia, county seat of the newly erected 
                                Greene
                             county. First clerk, recorder and auditor. Resigned
                            December, 1808.
               
               
                  1807
                  Bought site of New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana.
               
               
                  1808
                  Bought site of 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana.
               
               
                  1810
                  Founded 
                                Madison
                            .
               
               
                  1811
                  First clerk and recorder of 
                                Jefferson
                             county. Resigned 1817.
               
               
                  1812
                  Volunteer colonel in war of 1812.
               
               
                  1814
                  1824 President of the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank
                            of 
                                Madison
                            .
               
               
                  1816
                  1817-1818 Indiana State Senator from 
                                Jefferson
                             and 
                                Switzerland
                             counties.
               
               
                  1818
                  Donated site for Versailles, county-seat of 
                                Ripley
                             county.
               
               
                  1830
                  Died in 
                                Madison
                            .
               
            
            
               Pioneer is one of the comprehensive words of the language, it
                    knows no limitations of age, sex, color or previous conditions, or of
                    attainments, and in no combination does it carry greater intensity of meaning
                    than in that of Hoosier Pioneer.
            
            Pilgrim and 
                        Puritan
                     ventured into unknown perils, but perils known and unknown were
                    heroically faced by the pioneer of the Northwest Territory. Of this section, on
                    which more than once the fate of the nation hung, Indiana was the storm center
                    of the contending nations of the old world, as it had for centuries been of the
                    warring tribes of the new,until after it became a State a land yet
                    stained with cannibalism. So shadowed, it invited only the most valiant to its
                    questionable hospitality. Following its conquest from foreign domination by
                    General George Rogers 
                        Clark
                    , his soldiers as its earliest American pioneers were the leaders in
                    redeeming it from savagery, and converting it first into a land of homes, and
                    later into a sovereign State. They brought to the dual conquest of untamed man
                    and nature the versatile ability and varied preparation suggested by the above
                    outline of the life of one of them. Their uncritical classification by Bancroft
                    as "
                        Pennsylvania
                     Backwoodsmen" has found too ready acceptance. The ocean
                    lay between the backwoods with its laggards and the new world where the
                    wilderness was all in the foreground, beckoning to civilization. The successful
                    pioneer must possess infinitely versatile ability, be prepared by physical,
                    mental and moral endowment to establish for those less generously equipped a
                    pathway through the unbroken forest and a permanent home. He could not have left
                    civilization behind him if he would, for he was surcharged with it, irradiated
                    it wherever he went, he was civilization.
            Hoosier pioneers as nomenclators rivaled those of other States, expressing
                    thereby a refinement due to cultured antecedents possessed by a commanding
                    element among them. Sometimes they may have builded better than they knew. The
                    State name is a classic among those of the American states. It retraces all
                    history step by step,Indiana, Indian, 
                        India
                    , Indus, Hindu, Shindu. The name Hoosier is proudly borne by every
                    discriminating Indianian. One would be an ingrate who failed to give
                    appreciative thanks to those who bequeathed him the euphonious name of Hoosier
                    rather than that of Corncracker, Buckeye, Gopher, Sucker, Wolverine or even of
                    Flickertail or Swiagat. As its coinage dates from  about the year of the death of Colonel Paul, he
                    probably never heard it, but if he had he would have gloried in it.
                    Hoosier-pioneer best describes him, for all he did was incidental to the calling
                    of a pioneer, and in Indiana his life work culminated.
            William H. English in his History of the Conquest of the Northwest
                        Territory gives in the words of a personal friend of Colonel Paul this
                    description of him. "In stature Colonel Paul was full six feet, of
                    large frame without any surplus flesh, muscular, strong-nerved and
                    tireless."
            He was born November 12, 1758, near 
                  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
               , where his parents, Michael and Ann
                    Parker Paul were married in 1751. Ann Parker, who was of the Dunker faith, was
                    born in 1724, into a home of education and refinement. She was a cousin of the
                    Reverend Samuel Davies, the noted Presbyterian divine, who, in 1755 established
                    the first presbytery of that church in 
                        Virginia
                    , and who succeeded Jonathan Edwards as president of 
                        Princeton
                     College. Michael Paul was of an educated 
                        Quaker
                     family, was born in Holland, and at a date not now known came with
                    his parents to America. He with several brothers was living near 
                        Philadelphia
                     early in the eighteenth century. One brother, John, seems to have
                    been of his household, and lies buried beside him at Elizabethtown, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            William Paul, an 
                        Ohio
                     pioneer of whose estate John Paul was executor is supposed to be
                    another of the brothers.1
            
            A new impulse was given to western emigration in the sixties, and in 1766 Michael
                    and Ann Paul with their family of four daughters and two sons joined the caravan
                    bound for Red Stone, 
                        Fayette
                     county, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     where Fort Byrd on the Monongahela promised protection, and the new
                    government road suggested progress. Here, in the heroic atmosphere created by
                    such neighbors as Colonel William 
                        Crawford
                     and Colonel Michael Cresap, John Paul grew to manhood, retaining
                    the placid influence of the non-resisting community where his early childhood
                    was spent. To this is doubtless due that poise of character for which he was
                    noted, and this early training, his purposes throughout life reflected. To do
                    what his hand found to do conscientiously, was his ambition. He could fight when
                    fight he must, but civil life appealed more nearly to him.
            
               
                  1
                        Journal of Probate Court, 
                            Hamilton
                         County, 
                            Ohio
                        . 1795. Vol. 1, p. 34.
            
            
            He was educated in the schools of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and to these schools in later years he sent his only son, who was
                    graduated from 
                        Washington
                     College under the presidency of his father's friend Dr.
                    Andrew Wylie, later president of Indiana University.
            It is probable that an early acquaintance with George Rogers 
                        Clark
                     may have shaped the future of the subject of this sketch. When he
                    was fourteen years old, and had lived six years at Red Stone, better known as
                    Red Stone Old Fort, and now as Brownsville, 
                  Pennsylvania, Clark
               , then a youth of twenty, visited this little
                    settlement. It was then but a cluster of a few pioneer houses surrounding the
                    fort. Impelled by a spirit of adventure, 
                        Clark
                     had joined the little company with the Rev. David Jones of 
                        New Jersey
                     for a trip through western 
                        Virginia
                     and bordering territory. They visited Fort Pitt, and leaving there
                    in a covered wagon October 26th, 1772, reached Red Stone, November 17, remaining
                    there several days. It is not supposable that the future commander and his
                    soldier to be failed to meet. The acquaintance probably begun at that time had
                    frequent opportunity to ripen into that loyal devotion which John Paul evinced
                    toward his commander, in later years, for early in 1777, Red Stone became the
                    rendezvous for Colonel 
                        Clark
                     and his officers for perfecting their plans for the reduction of
                    the British posts on the western frontier.
            Colonel 
                        Clark
                     states, that on January 2, 1778, he received instructions for his
                    proposed campaign from the Governor and Council of Virgina, and on February 1st
                    he arrived at Red Stone, and adds: "Being in the country where all
                    arrangements were to be made, I appointed William Harrod and many other officers
                    to the recruiting service."
            John Paul, then nineteen years of age enlisted in the company of William Harrod,
                    and was one of the force which left Red Stone in May of that year for the falls
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    . He bears the honorable record of having stood true to the American
                    cause, and to the valiant 
                        Clark
                     throughout the disturbances and desertions at Corn Island, and of
                    being one of the Spartan band which made possible 
                        Clark
                    's capture of Kaskas-kia and Cahokia, and which waded
                    breast deep through miles  of swamp-water
                    flood to reclaim 
                        Vincennes
                     from foreign rule. His vivid account of the experiences of this
                    campaign is given by Jacob Burnet as the foundation of his historic story of the
                    downfall of 
                        England
                     on the western frontier.2
            
            Upon his return to Red Stone, with the thrilling recitals of his army experience
                    he must have mingled good reports of the then far west in the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     country, for on his re-enlistment, in 1780, in the company of
                    William Harrod when it was reformed on the expiration of the first term of
                    enlistment, his elder brother, Peter, enrolled his name on the company roster of
                    Squire 
                        Boone
                    .3
            
            Captain Harrod was a veteran of Dunmore's War, and with his company was
                    active throughout the Indian wars in the Northwest. One of its notable services
                    was in the retaliatory campaign of Colonels Bowman and Logan against the Shawnee
                    headquarters at Old 
                        Chillicothe
                    , or Old-town, on the Little 
                        Miami
                    , which left Harrodsburgh, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in July, 1779. Colonel Bowman's splendid soldierly
                    qualities became temporarily paralyzed. He ordered a retreat in the moment when
                    victory seemed assured. Colonel Logan assumed command, and with Harrod, Bulger,
                    Bedinger and their men dispersed the Indians under Blackfish, the adopted father
                    of Daniel 
                        Boone
                     while he was their captive. Captain Harrod's company was
                    also with 
                        Clark
                     in the campaign in August, 1780, against Colonel Byrd and his
                    Indians and 300 Mingoes under Simon Girty, at Mad river, and in that of 
                        Boone
                     and 
                        Clark
                     against the 
                        Miami
                     river Indian towns in August 1782, which crushed the Indian power
                    so thoroughly that no more organized raids against the settlements were made.4 In all of these campaigns John Paul was one of
                    Harrod's company.
            The family, in 1781, moved to the west, making their home in that part of 
                        Virginia
                     which became Hardin county 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is uncertain when the soldier son rejoined them, for in 1791 he
                    was at Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , though possibly temporarily. In September of that year he
                    accompanied a party of five other men and a boy to Clarksburg, to bring home a
                        
                  
                     2
                            Notes on the Northwest Territory, by Jacob Burnet, 76.
                  
                     3 Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , Vol. 1, 12.
                  
                     4 R. S. Dills History 
                                    Greene
                                 County, 
                                Ohio
                            , 248-253.
               
                     drove of beeves for rations for the 
                        United States
                     troops at the post. Returning they stopped over night half a mile
                    from the 
                        Ohio
                    . Having seen no Indians, no guard was set. Following the trail of
                    the cattle and horses, a little band of six Shawnee Indians headed by Tecumseh,
                    then a youth, came upon the party at break of day, while assembled at morning
                    worship. The first rifle-shot of the savages killed one man and wounded John
                    Paul "through the hand." Four of the Marietta men and the boy
                    were killed. The two survivors fled for their lives and distanced their
                    pursuers. "John Paul, who had been in many engagements with the Indians
                    escaped by his activity in running."5
            
            His home was in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1793, for in that year Hardin county was erected, and he became
                    coroner, and clerk, which office in 
                        Kentucky
                     includes that of recorder. The following entries are found in the
                    records in the Hardin county courthouse: 
                        John Paul produces a commission under the hand and seal of Isaac 
                                Shelby
                            , appointing him coroner, and thereupon takes the oath of
                            office, 1793.
                        P. BROWN.
                        John Paul, clerk pro. tem, of this court, produced a
                            certificate of the judges of the Court of Appeals that he was examined
                            by the clerk of the court, in their presence, and found duly qualified
                            to execute the office of clerk agreeably to the constitution of 
                                Kentucky
                            ; and was personally appointed by unanimous vote of the
                            court. He took the oath of a clerk, and together with Samuel Haycraft,
                            his surety, entered into and acknowledged their bond
                            ($3,000), conditioned according to law for the faithful
                            performance of the duties of said office, which bond is ordered to be
                            recorded. July 22, 1794.
                    
            
            The Hardin county courthouse was built in 1795, and the Honorable Samuel
                    Haycraft, in a history of the county, calls attention to the fact that until
                    this time there was no public building. That "the clerk had no office,
                    no desk, no presses, no lock up, nor even books;" that his records were
                    kept on loose leaves sewed together, and later bound; that the clerk tumbled
                    them into a basket and carried them to where they were needed, keeping them for
                    safety in his own home, yet none were lost or defaced. These county records
                    further show that "on June 25, 1793, John Paul, Robert Braid, Benjamin
                        
                  
                     5 S. P. Hildreth, History
                                    Ohio Valley
                     , 300-303.
               
                     Helm, and David Phillips, gentlemen, were
                    sworn and admitted as deputy surveyors;" also that John Paul resigned
                    as clerk of Hardin county, March 25, 1800. At this date he removed to the
                    Northwest Territory. April 14, 1795, he married Sarah Thornberry Grover, at
                    Danville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , to which place her parents had recently moved from 
                        Baltimore
                     county, 
                        Maryland
                    , where she was born and educated. An expert genealogist calls
                    attention to the fact that Sarah Paul was one of the very few women of her day
                    who signed her own name to legal papers, most of them making their mark, and
                    that her name was "fair writ." In 1800, with his wife and
                    two-year-old daughter, Ann Parker, in after years the wife of Governor William 
                        Hendricks
                    , Mr. Paul moved to the tract of 
                        Ohio
                     land historically prominent as "Symmes Purchase."
                    He built a cabin home, and a mill at what is now Trebines Station about three
                    miles west of Xenia on the Pan Handle railroad. Here was born his only son John
                    P. Paul, who in early manhood married the only daughter of Alexander Meek, the
                    first Grand Master of the Masonic Order in Indiana. Here also was born the
                    youngest daughter of John and Sarah Paul, Sarah Grover, who was three times
                    married. Her first husband was Dr. Robert Cravens; her second Dr. Samuel
                    Mackarness Goode; her third the Rev. Benjamin C. Stevenson of the Methodist
                    Episcopal Church, of which church Colonel Paul and his entire family were
                    communicants. Mary Berry, the eldest child, died in 1798 at the age of two
                    years.
            John Cleves Symmes seems to have welcomed most cordially, this 
                        Kentucky
                     family as assistant promoters of his pet scheme of western
                    settlement, and made their home his own when in that locality.
            Soon after establishing himself in Hamliton county, Mr. Paul was elected clerk,
                    serving until 
                        Greene
                     was erected from that part of 
                        Hamilton
                    .6 These offices included that of Auditor.
            When, at the close of the year 1802 the last vestige of the old Northwest
                    Territory vanished, and the State of 
                        Ohio
                     rose in its stead, he was a delegate to the first constitutional
                    convention of the new State, which met at 
                        Chillicothe
                     November 1, 1802.7 By it the constitution was
                    drafted, which was ratified 
                  
                     6 G. F. Robinson, Court Houses of 
                                    Greene
                                 County, May 1st, 1903.
                  
                     7 Gilkey, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Hundred Year Book, also Robinson, Pioneers of 
                                    Greene
                                
                      County.
               
                     November 29, under which 
                        Ohio
                     was admitted to the Union. The discussions of its articles elicited
                    great diversity of opinion and much warmth of feeling. This was especially
                    manifested in the case of the section relating to the extension of suffrage to
                    the colored people living in the territory, numbering about one or two hundred.
                    As this is one of the earliest attempts to give the rights of suffrage to the
                    negro in America, and as the attitude of the subject of this sketch is
                    representative of the trend of thought in the trans-Allegheny section of the 
                        United States
                     at that time, his recorded votes became interesting.
            A proposition to strike out that part of Section 19, Article 1, which forbad
                    slavery or involuntary servitude in this State was defeated overwhelmingly by a
                    vote of yeas 2, nays 31. Messrs. Paul and Reily of 
                        Hamilton
                     county voted in favor of the proposition.8
            
            In considering Article 4, on the 22nd of November, the convention voted yeas 19,
                    nays 15 to add these words to the end of the article: 
                        
                     Provided, that all male negroes and mulattoes now
                            residing in the territory shall be entitled to the right of suffrage, if
                            they shall, within twelve months make a record of citizenship. Those who
                            voted ayes were 
                             I'aul 
                            
                     9.
                  
                        At the same time the convention refused, by a vote of 17 to 16 to extend
                            the right of suffrage to the male descendants of such negro residents.
                        A motion was made to add to Article 7 of the constitution a new section
                            as follows:
                        No negro or mulatto shall ever be eligible to any office, civil or
                            military, or give any oath in any court of justice against a white
                            person; be subject to military duty, or pay poll tax in this state,
                            provided always, and be it fully understood and declared that ali
                            negroes, now in, or who may hereafter reside in the State, shall be
                            entitled to all privileges of citizens not excepted by this
                            constitution. This was agreed to by a vote of yeas 19; nays C; as
                            follows: yeas 
                            ; nays 
                             Paul 
                            .10
                  
                        The heat of discussion became alarming. The apprehension of disastrous
                            results induced the convention, by tacit consent to abandon all the
                            propositions which had been made relating to the subject by permitting
                            them to lie on the table undisposed of, and proceeding to form a
                            constitution having no direct reference to the matter.11
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8
                        Journal of Constitutional Convention of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , November 20, 1S02 ; Gilkey, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Hundred Year Book, 26.
               
                  9
                        Ibid, 80.
               
                  10 Gilkey, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Hundred Year Book, 81.
               
                  11 J acob Burnett, Notes on the Northwest
                            Territory, 355.
            
            
            Mr. Paul's adherence to conviction, indifference to popularity, and
                    position so far in advance of his times indicated by these votes, are all
                    characteristic of him. The losing minority with which he stood, sixty-three
                    years later became the victorious majority. What his position on the negro
                    question had been in his early life it is hard to say. The indenture of a slave
                    by John Paul in 1800, guaranteeing freedom after 1816 is entered on the records
                    of Hardin county, 
                        Kentucky
                    . As this is the year when Colonel Paul removed to the north of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, where such indenture was essential to the retention of a
                    slave, the inference is that it was he who executed the instrument, and not his
                    kinsman of the same name who stayed in 
                        Kentucky
                     where such provision was not necessary, but proof is lacking. Such
                    indentures were legal in the Northwest Territory. It was considered impossible
                    to open up the new country without help of some kind, and there was none but
                    this within reach of the settler. It was considered a step toward ultimate
                    emancipation, and the safest one for all concerned. It must be viewed in the
                    light of the dawn of the nineteenth century, and not of that of the twentieth.
                    To understand aright the position of the voter of that period it is needful to
                    recall the following facts.
            The citizen of the Northwest Territory found himself in a position differing from
                    that he had occupied in his home in the States. He was now under laws enacted
                    and enforced by a congress in which he was not represented. This he was slow to
                    accept, and the institution of each new territorial and State government
                    precipitated the question of adopting the measures of the Ordinance of 1787 as
                    such, or of incorporating into the local constitution only such of its laws as
                    those who were to live under them saw fit to accept. The clause making the
                    Northwest Territory and the States formed within its bounds free soil,
                    differentiated the new States from the old. This was really an act of
                    emancipation, unless enforced with unwarranted discrimination, for slavery
                    already existed here, and had done so from the first settlement by the French.
                    This, and the fact that the restriction was regarded by those upon whom it was
                    imposed, as, as much a commercial one in the interest of existing slave States
                    as a philanthropic one explains  the
                    position of the western voter in demanding the setting aside of the Ordinance
                    forbidding slavery in the Territory and its States. The demand was not for an
                    extension of slavery but an assertion of the right of an American citizen to a
                    voice in making the laws he was to uphold. It was only after a quarter of a
                    century of debate as to the legal construction of the anti-slavery clause of the
                    Ordinance of 1787 and its predecessor, that of 1784, that a definite conclusion
                    was reached, and in Indiana Territory its interpretation to mean absolutely free
                    soil was due to the Territorial General Assembly of 1810. The pro and
                    anti-slavery question had reached an acute crisis. This, and other issues, led
                    to a demand that the General Assembly be dissolved and a wholly new one elected.
                    Only the most pronounced advocates of the opposing parties were elected to this
                    assembly. Mr. Paul was one of the two representatives from 
                        Clark
                     county.12 And both are enrolled among the
                    anti-slavery men in the Assembly, which was overwhelmingly of that party.13 The notable achievement of this assembly was the repeal
                    of the indenture law, and the conclusive interpretation of the slavery proviso
                    in the Ordinance of 1787 to mean absolutely free soil under its jurisdiction.
            If Mr. Paul's views on the subject of slavery had not been broad at the
                    time he left 
                        Kentucky
                     he would have located elsewhere than in 
                        Ohio
                    . His choice of 
                        Clark
                     county for his home on coming to Indiana further declares his
                    views, as does the fact that these sections so continuously called him to
                    representative offices. In a country newly risen from monarchy, these offices
                    which today are considered minor ones, then carried more meaning.
            
                    The members of the Senate from 
                            Hamilton
                         county at the meeting of Its legislative session, held at 
                            Chillicothe
                        , March 1, 1S03. were, Francis Dunlavy, Jeremiah Morrow, John
                        Paul and Daniel Symms.14
               
                
            In this same year 
                        Greene
                     county was formed from 
                        Hamilton
                    . On May 10th the first associate judges of 
                        Greene
                     county met to perfect the county organization and elect officers.
                    Mr. Paul was chosen clerk. The first Supreme Court met 
                  
                     12 John Paul and Thomas Downs Hist. Dillon. Indiana. 448.
                  
                     13 J. P. Dunn, Indiana a Redemption
                                from Slavery, 404.
                  
                     14 Gilkey, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Hundred Year Book, 158.
               
                     October 25th, 1803, and elected Mr. Paul
                    clerk of this court also.15 The office of county
                    commissioner was created February 4, 1804. The commissioners elected in April of
                    that year held their first court the following June and chose John Paul clerk of
                    said court.16 These clerkships, and the office of recorder
                    and auditor he filled from the formation of the county until he left 
                        Ohio
                     for his new purchase in Indiana in 1809, tendering his resignation
                    December, 1808.
            His conscientious attention to detail in keeping the records is still a matter of
                    remark, even to the fact that he could keep his written lines on unruled paper
                    absolutely straight, an accomplishment which county books show to have been
                        rare.17 In this connection it may be noted that the
                    investigation of the early records of the ninety-two counties of Indiana by the
                    Centennial Commission, elicited the comment that those of 
                        Jefferson
                     county are the fullest and most complete. Mr. Paul was clerk and
                    recorder from its erection in 1811 until he resigned, August, 1817, when in the
                    Indiana Senate.
            In November, 1803, on part of a 2,000 acre tract of land which he had bought
                    early in that year, of Thomas and Elizabeth Coleman Richardson of 
                        Hanover
                     county, 
                        Virginia
                    , "for 1,050 pounds current money of 
                        Virginia
                    ," Mr. Paul founded Xenia to be the seat of justice of 
                        Greene
                     county, which it became and continues to be. The name he gave in
                    its classical sense of "a pledge of friendship;" his founding
                    a town on the frontier expressing his faith in the permanence of interracial
                    peace. As a founder's gift he donated the ground bounded by Main,
                    Market, 
                        Detroit
                    , and 
                        Greene
                     streets for public buildings.18
            
            
                    On November 14, 1804, John Paul and Sarah his wife, of 
                            Greene
                         county concluded the sale of 2571 acres of land to Joseph O.
                        Vance, a director of the town of Xenia, for the only and proper use of said
                        county, for the sum of $250, including the site of Xenia.19
               
                
            This was the first money paid out of the treasury of 
                        Greene
                     county.20
            
            
               
                  15Henry Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , Vol. 1.
               
                        16
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  17 R. D. Dills, History 
                                Greene
                             County 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , 224.
               
                  18 George Robinson, Xenia Notes.
               
               
                  19 Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , 194.
               
                  20 Robinson, Xenia Notes.
               
            
            
            Mr. Paul's physical vigor, and pioneer energies, seem to have been
                    unabated at the age of fifty, for he then turned his attention to aiding in the
                    opening up, and settling, the new purchases in Indiana Territory which were
                    being put on sale as fast as they could be bought from the Indians. With the
                    purpose of buying land, he with a neighbor, Robert LaFollette, walked from Xenia
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                    , to the land sale in the spring of 1807.21 He
                    bought at that time the site of New 
                        Albany
                    , which he later sold to the Scribner Brothers. Mr. Paul returned by
                    way of the rivers and inspected his new purchase, Not being entirely satisfied
                    he continued his investigation of conditions along the 
                        Clark
                     county river front to within the limits of the present 
                        Jefferson
                     county. Here every prospect pleased, and this, and other reasons
                    more significant than those generally assigned, led him to buy, at the sale of
                    public lands at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     the following year, the site of 
                        Madison
                    . He subsequently bought extensive tracts in both 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Ripley
                     counties. October 6, 1809, he came with his family to his new
                    possessions and established their permanent home on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , in what was then 
                        Clark
                     county. His transportation of his family and household effects in
                    wagons drawn by oxen has raised the question why he, a specialist in fine horses
                    chose so tedious a method of travel. A letter of instruction from John Cleves
                    Symmes to settlers going to his new 
                        Miami
                     purchase, in the early files of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers answers it. In it he urges that all family travel in
                    unsettled western lands be by ox-team, "as Indians will attack
                    travelers and take from them their horses or boats." A cabin home on an
                    eastern bluff provided shelter for his household while a clearing was made in
                    the valley, and a house was being built. This bluff long retained the name of
                    Mar's Hill given it by some Bible reading pioneer, because
                    "Paul stood on Mars hill."
            The town was at once laid off, and called for a year or less, Wakefield, perhaps
                    as in the case of others of the same name, from the Vicar of Wakefield, which at
                    that time still occupied the position of best seller and school classic. Mr.
                    Paul later named it 
                        Madison
                    , and with the expanding purpose of making it the seat of justice of
                    the newly erected county, he admitted 
                  
                     21 Robinson, Xenia Notes, 
                                    Greene
                                 County Items.
               
                     as partners in the project, two 
                        Cincinnati
                     pioneers, Lewis Davis and Jonathan Lyon in 1810, and in 1815 Jacob
                    Burnet, also of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . John Paul as original purchaser and proprietor always retained the
                    controlling property interest, as the deed books show.
            He was elected in 1810 representative to the Territorial General Assembly from 
                        Clark
                     county, and to him fell the responsibility of naming the new county
                    erected that year from 
                        Clark
                    , and to it he gave the name of 
                        Jefferson
                    .
            In 1811, John Paul and Jonathan Lyon established the first ferry from 
                        Madison
                     to the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore opposite, at 
                        Milton
                    .
            The record of the services of Colonel Paul in the war of 1812 are not obtainable,
                    as none were kept of the branch of the volunteers in which he served, still it
                    was a recognized branch, known as "Gentlemen Volunteers." It
                    was formed of men who had volunteered, but whom the government could not muster
                    into the service because it could neither equip nor pay them. They defrayed
                    their own expense entirely, drawing pay from no public funds. They organized for
                    each emergency as it arose, at home or elsewhere. These troops were commanded by
                    officers, many of whom were past military age, ex-revolutionary soldiers
                    largely, whose military experience made their services valuable when there was
                    such a dearth of prepared military men. They held no commissions, but were given
                    the title of the office which they filled. It was for performing the duties of a
                    colonel in these unassigned troops that the title was conferred on Colonel
                        Paul.22
            
            Colonel Paul was the proprietor of the second newspaper in Indiana, The Western Eagle. William 
                        Hendricks
                     and William Cameron were its first publishers. Its first issue was
                    dated 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana Territory, May 26, 1813. The building in which it was
                    published is now used for law offices. It was the second brick house in 
                        Madison
                    , Colonel Paul's own home, still a beautiful one although
                    considerably changed being the first in this part of Indiana. It was a two story
                    house with a central hall, on the second bank of the river, and from the terrace
                    reaching from his front door to the 
                  
                     22 This statement was made by Edward Eggleston,
                            Historian, shortly before his death, with authority to
                            use it in this connection. He said further, "If I were in my
                            library I could show you where to find the facts in
                        full."
               
                     river, he cleared the trees making a lawn
                    400 by 600 feet before his house. Succeeding pioneers found this the only
                    opening in the forest fringe of the 
                        Ohio
                     for many miles, and it became their landing place. The difficulties
                    of his own first landing at 
                        Madison
                    , when he had to cut his way through vine-tangled willows probably
                    prompted this provision for his successors. From a spring beside which the 
                        Michigan
                     road now runs, whose waters flow abundant and pure as they did one
                    hundred years ago, he in 1812, piped water through hollowed logs to his home two
                    miles distant, for domestic purposes, having installed among other conveniences,
                    a bath room, an evidence that even luxurious necessities were not unknown in
                    pioneer days. The importance he attached to these provisions for household
                    comfort appears from the following entry on the books of the county recorder.
            
                    The proprietors of 
                            Madison
                        , for, and in behalf of, John Paul, one of the proprietors,
                        reserve the right to conduct the water from his property adjoining town
                        through streets and alleys for the purpose of water-works, for the use and
                        benefit of himself, his heirs and assigns forever.
                
            Another spring in the heart of the new town was also known as Paul's
                    spring. Here was established, in 1812, a pleasure resort. The grounds adjacent
                    were well supplied with rustic seats of hewn logs, and were made the center for
                    summer gatherings of the villagers and settlers within reach of it. Dances on
                    the green, and wrestling matches in which the sons of the pioneers, and the
                    Indian braves from nearby camps, strove for wagers, were popular forms of
                    amusement. These were regular Saturday evening diversions, and after early
                    suppers pretty much the entire population, clad in their best apparel joined the
                    line of march for Paul's springs, as today the amusement lovers fall in
                    line for the picture shows.
            In 1813, Colonel Paul built two mills. A beaver dam across a creek just outside
                    the town he accepted as first aid toward building a saw mill, to prepare lumber
                    for erecting town houses. The same year he built 
                        Madison
                    's first grist mill, on the same creek, at the head of the
                    street which from it was given, and which still retains the name of Mill street.
                    It was operated by a practical miller named McConathy; the saw mill was run by a
                    man whose name was Lund.
            
            In 1814 banking was added to the many business enterprises already conducted by
                    Colonel Paul. Dr. Logan Esarey, in his recently published Study of
                        State Banking in Indiana, speaks in highest terms of the financial
                    ability and sterling integrity of Colonel Paul as a banker, and of how bravely
                    the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank, of which he was president,
                    rode the financial storm which raged through the period of transition from
                    territorial to state government. He says: 
                        The territorial government, sitting at Corydon in 1814, chartered two
                            banks. One of these was located at 
                                Vincennes
                            , the other at 
                                Madison
                            . The officers of the land office at 
                                Vincennes
                             were behind one of these, and Colonel John Paul, founder of 
                                Madison
                            , and a hero of the George Rogers 
                                Clark
                             campaign, was behind the other. The charters were
                            identical, were to last twenty years, and it was provided that all notes
                            issued should be paid in hard money. Though these two banks started
                            under like charters and similar circumstances their careers were very
                            different. While bank after bank failed, and closed, in the financial
                            crisis of 1818 and 1819, and among them that of 
                                Vincennes
                            , the 
                                Madison
                             Bank held the enviable reputation of having its notes
                            received at the land office at 
                                Brookville
                             and of paying all its obligations punctually. Its notes
                            were received at the 
                                United States
                             land offices for many years; and were rated highest of all
                            in the Northwest, except the notes of the Commonwealth Bank of 
                                Kentucky
                            . The 
                                Madison
                             Bank had a branch at 
                                Lexington
                             in 
                                Scott
                             county, a town almost as large as 
                                Madison
                            , and another at 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            .23
                  
                    
            
            When territorial responsibilities gave place to those of statehood, Colonel Paul
                    bore his share of their weight and the honors that came with it. He was elected
                    a member of the first State senate from 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                     counties, for the years 1816-1817-1818, and president pro tern. of the newly elected senate presiding from its organization
                    November 4, 1816, until and during the administration of the oath of office to
                    Governor 
                        Jennings
                     and Lieutenant Governor Christopher 
                        Harrison
                    .
            When 
                        Ripley
                     county was organized in 1818, the selection of a site for its
                    county-seat seemed to have been a difficult matter. The committee appointed to
                    make the selection was John De Pauw, who was allowed $48 for sixteen
                    days spent in the discharge of this duty, William H. Eads, $21, and
                    Charles Briggs $39, for similar services. In the end they unanimously
                        
                  
                     23 Logan Esarey, State Banking in
                                Indiana 1814-1873, 22-26.
               
                     endorsed the selection of a site made by
                    Colonel Paul, and tendered by him to the county as a gift, which was accepted.
            
                    The committee reported that after they had explored the entire county, and
                        being fully satisfied concerning the future divisions of the county, the
                        fertility of the soil and the future population of the county, they agreed
                        to fix, locate and establish the permanent seat of justice of 
                            Ripley
                         county on the one hundred acres of land donated for that
                        purpose by John Paul of 
                            Madison
                        .24
               
                
            This land is that on which Versailles, and its cemetery, known as Cliff Hill, are
                    now located. Colonel Paul's land purchases in 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
                and Indiana were among the extensive tracts
                    sold to private buyers, ranging up to three thousand acres at a purchase, many
                    times. He gave generously of his land to his kin, and to establish new towns,
                    and often sold for nominal prices. That he donated for the Xenia public square
                    was considered by the commissioners as larger than needed for that purpose, and
                    five building lots were cut off from it in 1817, and sold for $3,253.
                    Colonel Paul had sold them the entire town, platted, and of a year's
                    growth for $250; still his real estate transactions were successful.
                    Through them and his varied business ventures he acquired wealth.
            Contemporaries and historians have left many tributes to his memory. John Vawter,
                    a 
                        Jefferson
                     county resident said, "I was personally acquainted with
                    the first proprietor of 
                        Madison
                    , and a more excellent and upright man than Colonel Paul it would be
                    hard to find."
            George F. Robinson, in his "
                        Greene
                     County Items" in Xenia Notes, says:
                        
                        Previous to, and at the time of the organization of 
                                Greene
                             county there were living in that part of 
                                Hamilton
                             county from which it was formed three men of note, John
                            Paul, William Maxwell and John Wilson, Esquires. Also, in a private
                            letter, Of the ten thousand pioneers who lived in 
                                Greene
                             county between 1803 and 1840, Colonel John Paul was my
                                ideal.25
                  
                    
            
            Richard Corson Meldruin of 
                        Chicago
                    , in a letter to a 
                        Madison
                     paper in 1879, wrote "I can never think of 
                        Madison
                     but the picture of Colonel Paul on horseback rises before me. He
                    was a perfect rider, and he and his horse were inseparable."
            
               
                  24
                        
                     
                                Henry
                             C. Jones, History 
                            Ripley
                         County; in the 
                            Osgood
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 10, 1913.
               
                  25 R. S. Dills, History 
                                Greene
                             County, 231.
            
            
            His fatal illness resulted from a trip to the western part of the county to see
                    horses he was thinking of buying. Heavy rains delayed his return, and filled
                    more than bank-full the creek from Clifty falls. His horse swam the creek, but
                    fell on the slippery bank, striking the rider's head on a stone. He was
                    found unconscious hours after, his clothing saturated by the swollen creek.
                    Three years of helplessness from rheumatism resulted, and caused his death, in 
                        Madison
                     June 6, 1830.
         
         
         
            Notes Concerning 
                        Brookville
                    , Ind., a Century Ago
            
            By AMOS W. BUTLER, LL.D., Secretary
                    State Board of Charities
            IT IS my purpose to speak of 
                        Brookville
                     as it was a hundred years ago. What I am to say is from
                    reminiscences of my grandfather, Amos Butler, and the notes of my father,
                    William W. Butler, of Hadley D. 
                        Johnson
                     and others of the older inhabitants. It is my belief that they are
                    substantially correct, though there may be some discrepancies.
            My grandfather, Amos Butler, a native of 
                        Chester
                     county, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . was the first settler of 
                        Brookville
                    . He came to its site in 1803 or 1804. The latter year he located
                    and entered the land east of 
                        Franklin
                     street and north of the section line running through Dr.
                    Berry's office. His cabin was built about 100 yards northeast of the
                    Hermitage. The site of it has been washed away. His nearest neighbors were the
                    Templetons north toward Templeton's creek. He built the first grist
                    mill about where Speer's flour mill stood and above it a short distance
                    a saw mill. He brought his mill irons and mill stones from 
                        Cincinnati
                     on pack horses. Several persons came with him to assist in the
                    work, among whom was David Stoops with whom he lived. He was the father of
                    Robert Stoops, Sr., who was the grandfather of Harry M. Stoops. David is said to
                    have been the father of twenty-three children.
            Wild animals were plentiful. My grandfather used to sleep in the mill. His
                    companion was a little dog. Often the wolves would come about the mill and keep
                    them awake. Many times he tried to shoot them but did not know that he ever
                    succeeded. There were many Indians around at that time.
            Amos Butler and Jesse B. Thomas, afterward 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Illinois
                    , and author of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, 
                  
                      Read at the Indiana Centennial
                            Exercises, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, June 1, 1916,
               
                     together entered the quarter section on
                    which they laid out the original plat of 
                        Brookville
                    . It was surveyed by Solomon Manwaring in 1808. Manwaring married
                    Jennie Hanna who was a daughter of old General Robert Hanna.
            My grandfather married Mary Wallace of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In the spring of 1810 they came down the 
                        Ohio
                     in a keel boat to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . They made the trip to 
                        Brookville
                     on horseback by way of the site of 
                  Harrison, Ohio
               , arriving March 10, 1810. The next day my father,
                    William Wallace Butler was born in the cabin near the mill. Hannah Moore, the
                    grandmother of Bolivar Templeton, officiated at the birth. Hadley D. 
                        Johnson
                     once told me that he understood he was born in 1812 in the same
                    cabin.
            My grandfather built three other houses in 
                        Brookville
                    . The next was on the high ground back of I. M. Bridgeman's
                    residence. Another was west of that toward the Blooming-grove road. The third
                    was the old brick house with stone kitchen which some of the older citizens will
                    remember near the old $CAonnersville road, where William
                    Smiester's stable now stands. From there he moved to 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, in 1818. My father as he grew older came back to 
                        Brookville
                     from time to time to look after his father's interests and
                    finally returned to make it his home in 1834.
            Within a few years after Amos Butler settled here many other settlers came. Among
                    them were the following: Isaac Fuller, Thomas Herndon, Squire Mewhinney, Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    , Samuel Goodwin, William H. Eads, John Vincent, John Test, William 
                        Martin
                    , Reuben Lines, Ely 
                        Adams
                    , Benjamin McCarty, Mr. Dailey, father of Rev. William M. Dailey,
                    James Knight, Thomas Williams, Rev. William Tyner, Benjamin Childers, Abraham
                    Huddleston, - - - Spangler, Jacob Laforge, - - - Hartman,
                     Stringer, Jacob Hetrick, Rev. DeWeese, and 
                        Spencer
                     Wylie.
            The first graveyard was located in the northeastern part of town where the
                    creamery was built. A brother of my grandmother, Nathaniel Wallace, was buried
                    there. Roswell G. Tubbs' was the only grave there which had a dressed
                    gravestone with his name on it. When burying began in the graveyard at the
                    Lutheran church it ceased at the old site. Samuel  Goodwin and Mr. Symmes bought the lots for the
                    second burying ground. In it are buried many of 
                        Brookville
                    's first settlers and others prominent in the early history
                    of the town. These include Gen. Eli Long, John T. McKinney, wife and child of
                    John Henderson afterward 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Mississippi
                    , the McCleerys, Ben Sed 
                        Noble
                    . Few know that there is buried James M. Clayton, brother of John M.
                    Clayton, once 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Delaware
                    .
            The church now there was erected by the Methodist Episcopal denomination and was
                    the first meeting house built in 
                        Brookville
                    .
            My father said the first school he remembered was taught by Solomon 
                        Allen
                     in a two-story frame house about the site of the home of the late
                    R. P. C. Barwick. There was also a school in the old John W. Keeley residence
                    about 1819. Later the old M.E. class rooms, now torn down, were used. My
                    father-in-law, William Reynolds, went to school there in the early forties to
                    Joseph Ryman. Squire St. John taught there a year or two before. A small brick
                    school house used later stood back of where Frank Masters' store is.
            One experience I shall always remember was a visit to our home by Hadley D. 
                        Johnson
                     in January, 1893. He was commissioned by the State of 
                        Utah
                     to carry its official vote for Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     for president to 
                        Washington
                     and on his return trip stopped with us. I was able to get an agreed
                    statement from him and my father about much of the early history of 
                        Brookville
                    . The following notes will give some idea of 
                        Brookville
                     about 1820.
            James Knight built the "Old Yellow Tavern." He took the
                    contract of building the first courthouse but died before it was completed. His
                    widow sent to Frederick, 
                        Maryland
                    , for her brother, William McCleery, to complete the work. That he
                    did and later married Knight's daughter by his first wife.
            Andrew Wallace, father of Governor David Wallace, governor of Indiana and
                    grandfather of General Lew Wallace was an early hotel keeper. David Wallace
                    lived in a brick house on the lot north of the present Catholic parsonage. There
                    his son, General Lew Wallace, soldier, author and governor of 
                        New Mexico
                    , was born. Major William Beeks, Mrs. Butler's
                    grand-father,  afterward lived in the same
                    house which I remember well. Another member of the Wallace family and former
                    resident of 
                        Brookville
                     was William Henson Wallace who, I think, was at one time governor
                    of 
                        Idaho
                    .
            Gen. James 
                  Noble, United States
                Senator from Indiana, lived in a
                    frame house on the adjoining lot south. It was long used as the Catholic
                    parsonage and was later moved one square west to make room for the present house
                    of the priest and is still in existence. His brother, Noah, became governor of
                    Indiana. Another brother, Lazarus, was in charge of the 
                        United States
                     land office at 
                        Brookville
                    . He died at Squire Mounts' at Metamore, while engaged in
                    moving that office to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was succeeded by Robert Hanna who later became 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana. Martha 
                        Noble
                     married Richard Tyner.
            Another house in that part of town then standing was the old brick house where
                    John L. Case lived when I was a boy. That was occupied by a family named
                    Herndon. This is the same house in which Dr. George Berry and Dr. John Hughes
                    afterward dissected the body of a well known citizen when they were
                    "reading medicine" and on account of which they became
                    voluntary exiles for a time.
            John Test, Lew Wallace's maternal grandfather, lived on the site of the
                    old Carmichael house where Mrs. Loper now lives. The large cedar trees that
                    stood in the southeastern corner of the yard when I was a boy were said to have
                    been planted by Lew Wallace's mother. In that same house at other times
                    lived Hadley D. 
                        Johnson
                    's father, and Ben 
                        Noble
                    .
            Abraham 
                        Hammond
                    , later governor of Indiana, lived with his father, Squire Nathaniel 
                        Hammond
                    . John Henderson was a shoemaker who acquired his education while
                    working at his bench. He afterward moved to 
                        Mississippi
                     and was elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Sampson Powers, brother of Hiram Powers, the sculptor, had
                    a store just north of the Valley House before 1831. He was the postmaster. He
                    married the daughter of Enoch McCarty.
            Stephen S. Harding, later Governor of 
                        Utah
                    , lived with his relative, Dr. Davis, in the residence afterward the
                    home of the late Dr. George Berry. Dr. Oliver lived not far from the  present jail. He was the foster father of Oliver H.
                    Glisson who became rear admiral in the 
                        United States
                     navy. Richard Tyner lived in the Tappen house until he built the
                    one in which John Roberts and A. M. Tucker afterward resided. At that time the
                    big store was kept by William H. Eads. He "broke up" about
                    1824. Richard Tyner clerked for Eads and succeeded him in business. Eads was the
                    brother of Thomas Eads the father of James B. Eads, the engineer. Tyner was the
                    father of James N. Tyner, postmaster general of the 
                        United States
                    . The old half-house in the east bottom was probably erected by
                    Robert Breckenridge. It was once used for the land office and was a bank about
                    1820. There were six or seven banks at 
                        Brookville
                     at one time. The old State Bank according to my father's
                    recollection stood on the site of the southern part of the Valley House.
            Gen. Robert Hanna built Dr. George Berry's residence in 1816. It was
                    probably the first house built in Amos Butler's plat. Dr. Berry with
                    his wife, Ann Wright Berry, went to housekeeping there. They made it their home
                    for over fifty years and both died there.
            At that time the population reached its lowest ebb. Dr. Rufus Haymond took a
                    census of the town. Hadley D. 
                        Johnson
                    's recollection of this was that it showed a population of
                    250.
            About 1826 or 1827 the total amount of cash taken in by four general stores in
                    one day was 311/4 cents. These stores were conducted by Richard Tyner, George T. 
                        Noble
                    , Abner McCarty and Nathan D. Gallion. At that time there was very
                    little money in circulation and the credit system prevailed.
            
               
                        Brookville
                     is to be complimented for the increasing interest in local history.
                    The Historical Society is a fine thing and should receive encouragement and
                    substantial support. The old landmarks are rapidly passing. How many of them
                    will remain at the next centennial? I would suggest that permanent markers be
                    placed at the historic spots. This should be done while it is possible. These
                    landmarks are among the most valuable assets this community has.
         
         
         
            Early Days in 
                        Switzerland
                     County
            By ANNETTE DANGLADE, of the Julia L.
                    Dumont Club, 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana
            
               
                        Switzerland
                     county lies in the far southeastern corner of the State and 
                        Vevay
                    , its principal town and capital, is on the 
                        Ohio
                     river. The name of the county is explained by the fact of its
                    settlement by Swiss immigrants who were drawn by the supposed adaptability of
                    the soil to the growth of the grape. It is bounded on the north by 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Ripley
                     counties, on the east and south by the 
                        Ohio
                     river and on the west by 
                        Jefferson
                     county. It contains an area of 221 square miles and is divided into
                    six townships, Pleasant, Craig, 
                        Jefferson
                    , Cotton, 
                        Posey
                     and York.
            The first settlers in the county of whom any definite account can be given was
                    Heathcote Picket, who located above Plum creek and about three miles above 
                        Vevay
                     in the year 1795. There was an abundance of wild game and bread was
                    made from corn ground on a hand mill. He piloted flatboats down to 
                        New Orleans
                     returning by land through the Indian country on foot. He also built
                    the first flatboat known as "Orleans Boat." John James DuFour
                    in 1796 explored the country along the 
                        Ohio
                     river, seeking a location for the future home of himself and
                    family. The selection was between Plum and Indian creeks. Under special act of
                    Congress May 1, 1802, he purchased four sections of land, 2,500 acres, paying an
                    entry fee of $2 per acre and having twelve years time to complete
                    payment. The lands were then divided and sold to the Swiss families who were
                    vine dressers. The first wine produced in this locality by Jean D. Morerod,
                    Philip Bettens and John DuFour, was made in 1806 and 1807. The quantity was
                    limited but of good quality; the vineyards were enlarged each year and in 1809,
                    1,200 gallons were made.
            These lands had been covered by the heaviest of forest trees, walnut, poplar and
                    oak, with a thick undergrowth. In 1805 a crop of wheat was raised and the straw
                    taken care  of and made into hats. In 1798
                    the Cotton and Dickason families settled on Indian creek, and in 1799 Robert
                    Gullion on the 
                        Ohio
                     river bottom above the mouth of Log Lick creek. The family of
                    Morerods located on a farm in 1804 one mile south of 
                        Vevay
                    . The first corn mill was erected in 1807 on the bank of Indian
                    creek. Before that the settlers were compelled to cross the river, swimming
                    their horses to the side of a canoe, then on to 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , where there was only a hand mill. In the
                    spring of 1814 persons from 
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania
                and 
                        New York
                     commenced moving into the county and a petition was placed in the
                    hands of Mr. DuFour for a new county. He laid it before the territorial
                    legislature and he was given the privilege of a name which is 
                        Switzerland
                     after his native land. The county officers were: clerk and
                    recorder, J. F. DuFour; sheriff, John Francis Siebenthal; coroner, Ralph Cotton;
                    and surveyor, Elisha Golay. The judge of the circuit court was Elijah Sparks,
                    who served until June, 1815, after which James 
                        Noble
                     served until March, 1816. Jesse L. Hol-man was appointed and served
                    until the organization of the State in 1816. The first couple married after the
                    organization of the county was Richard Dumont and Matilda Phillips, the license
                    being issued by J. F. DuFour in September, 1814. In 1812 the population of 
                        Switzerland
                     county was about 900, in 1813, at the time 
                        Vevay
                     was laid out it was about 1,000 and was mostly confined to the
                    imediate vicinity of the river and creek bottoms.
            The increasing population of the county as early as 1810 suggested to the people
                    the necessity of a postoffice in their midst as they were almost shut out from
                    the world around them. If one wished to get letters or papers from his friends
                    or to send any he was obliged to go to Port William, now called Carrolton, 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was supplied with a mail once in two weeks. John DuFour drew
                    up a memorial to the Postmaster General which was signed by all the citizens of
                    the colony and neighborhood and sent to Senator Buckner Thurston, who was a
                    senator from 
                        Kentucky
                     in Congress. Mr. DuFour was appointed postmaster and continued to
                    serve until October 1, 1835. Although the postoffice was named 
                        Vevay
                    , the town was not laid out until October, 1813. Until that  time no regular towns had been laid out
                    within the limits of the county. In that year the era of town making began. John
                    F. DuFour and Daniel DuFour laid out 
                        Vevay
                     since which additions have been made by John Sheets, Perret DuFour
                    and David Armstrong. In 1815 Edward Mclntire laid out a town opposite Carrolton
                    and called it "Erin," which was vacated. Peter Harris in 1815
                    laid out the town of 
                        Jacksonville
                    , which for a while was a thriving village. October 29, 1814, the 
                        Switzerland
                     county court divided the county into two townships and named the
                    upper 
                        Posey
                     and the lower 
                        Jefferson
                    . Elections were held at the home of Robert M. Trotter, and John
                    Dumont was inspector of elections. George Craig was appointed by the governor
                    first justice of peace after the State was admitted to the Union in 1816. In the
                    February session of the county commissioners the county was again divided. Plum
                    and Indian creeks flow entirely through the county giving it a good drainage and
                    rich lands for farming.
            The first election held in Cotton township was at the home of Lot 
                        Hammond
                     in Allensville, it being the first village laid out, platted and
                    recorded in this township. Peter Demaree was the founder of this village.
                    Fairview and East Enterprise were laid out by John Littlefield. A tanyard was
                    established by D. K. Harris and did business for many years. Craig township was
                    named in honor of George Craig as he was the first settler and some years later
                    (1822-1825) was elected to the State Senate. In 1805-06 the residents built a
                    block house in which to shelter the women and children should the Indians
                    approach. David Bray was among the first settlers and the village of Braytown
                    was in his honor. The first mill was built in the McKay settlement and schools
                    were established as soon as there were enough children to go. About the year
                    1817 the Dutch (
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) settlement in Pleasant township was formed and in a few years
                    began to supply 
                        Vevay
                     with produce. In the early days the people of this township were
                    compelled to go to a horse mill opposite Carrolton to get their corn ground or
                    else use a grater. The land produced fine wheat but made unhealthy flour. During
                    these years there was very little money in circulation. If the farmers had more
                    produce than was needed at home they took it to 
                        Madison
                     or Rising Sun  market until the
                    demand at 
                        Vevay
                     was greater. On the west side of Pleasant township a number of
                    Scotch families settled, also a number settled on Long Run, known as Seven Day
                    Baptists.
            Moorfield was laid out in 1834. Stilwell Gram, a carpenter, was one of the first
                    residents. Abijah Grimes and James Long built a saw mill in the early days.
                    Bennington was founded by Dan Loudon and "city lots were staked for
                    sale above old Indian Graves." It is the capital of the township.
                    Augustus Welsh built the first store building. School buildings were built soon
                    after the settlement. The type all over the county was the log cabin. With one
                    end for a fireplace, a log left out for a window, a log split open and holes
                    bored in the end and pins drove in for a seat, a slab fixed under the window for
                    a writing desk the furniture was complete. The teacher must know the
                    "Rule of Three", reading, writing, and be able to make a neat
                    pen out of a goose quill. The wages were from $20 to $35
                    per quarter of 60 days and when a teacher "boarded round" the
                    salary was less. The first settlers of 
                        Posey
                     township found it occupied by a lawless set from 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1810 Oliver Ormsby and Patrick Donahue, natives of 
                        Ireland
                    , purchased what is now called 
                        Mexico
                     Bottom, Donahue laying his part out in town lots, called 
                        Montgomery
                    , but none were ever sold. In 1812 Elisha Wade purchased land and
                    laid out the town of Troy, now called Patriot, the river at this point being
                    broad and deep and the banks high.
            The first school was taught by Mr. Fordyce in a log house with a sheet of greased
                    paper for a window. He had about eighteen pupils. Thomas Dugan laid out Quercus
                    Grove commonly known as Barkworks as a Mr. Smith in 1816 purchased a tract of
                    land near Quercus Grove and built machinery for grinding the bark of oak trees
                    which he shipped by flatboat to 
                        New Orleans
                    , thence to Europe, where it was used for coloring clothes, etc. In
                    May, 1830, a new township called 
                        Jackson
                     was set aside and in 1831 the name was changed to York. Benjamin
                    Drake was among the first settlers and laid out the town of 
                        New York
                     later called Florence, the population being less than 70. The land
                    in York township is in some places rough and hilly but very fertile. March 18,
                    1874, the plat of  Markland was recorded
                    being named for Charles Markland its founder. The plat contains one and a half
                    acres with Main street and 
                        Broadway
                     running north and south. John Marsh bought the first lot and
                    erected the first dwelling, John McClel-lan being second. The first store was
                    built by James H. Beard. Centre Square was laid out by William 
                        Lawrence
                     in 1835 and at one time candidates for legislature thought of
                    changing the county seat to this place. Mr. 
                        Lawrence
                     made the remark that he spoiled a good farm trying to have a town
                    built. Charles Muret was the only physician in the colony for many years before
                    1813. Dr. Muret went on a flatboat to 
                        New Orleans
                     and there became fireman in a steam mill to raise means to pay his
                    passage to Europe. Dr. Norton came about 1813 and Dr. James Welsh in 1819
                    established the first drug store. Dr. John Mendenhall was a leading doctor,
                    coming from 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1815.
            Daniel DuFour from the time of his coming to the colony in 1804 until as late as
                    1817 was in the habit of reading a sermon to the colonists every Sunday, but
                    occasionally a minister would pass by and stop to preach. The Indiana Register was the first paper published in the year 1816 by
                    DuFour, Keene and Company with Keene as printer; but later he left and Robert
                    Berchfield was printer. Berryman and Child published the Weekly
                        Messenger about five miles north of 
                        Vevay
                    . In 1832 Richard Randall published the Monitor
                    and for awhile there was not any paper when Isaac Stevens came in 1836 and
                    published the Village Times. Then later the Indiana Statesman, then the Spirit of the Times was
                    published for three years by James G. Fanning. Then Stephen C. Stevens and
                    Benjamin Simmons published the Indiana Palladium for two or
                    three years when, under new management, the name was changed to 
                  Ohio Valley Gazette. This was sold to Otis S.
                    and Frederick J. Waldo who called it the Indiana Reveille. In
                    1855 Charles C. 
                        Scott
                     published the Weekly News which, when it changed
                    hands, was just called News. In December, 1860, W. J. Baird
                    bought the News office and called the paper the Reveille and News, although this office changed hands several times it
                    is still the Reveille.
            The celebrations of Fourths of July were great events in the early days, not only
                    for persons in 
                        Switzerland
                     county but  across the river
                    the invitation had been extended. These meetings were held in a grove just below
                    town. William Cotton read the Declaration of Independence and John James DuFour
                    delivered the oration. Sometimes a barbecue was held and an immense crowd always
                    came.
            
               
                        Switzerland
                     county was not behind the others in giving attention to her
                    educational interests. About 1810 Lucien Gex taught in a log school house near 
                        Vevay
                     and in 1811 and 1812 J. F. Buchetee also taught. The increase in
                    1865 of the State tax for tuition from 10 to 16 cents on the hundred dollars put
                    the public educational work on a firm footing and since then the growth has been
                    rapid. The first site selected for the town of 
                        Vevay
                     by John F. DuFour in 1813 was a good one as it lies midway between
                            
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , and
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , and the steamboats
                    plying between these two cities are its only medium of communication with the
                    world as no railroad touches it. The lots in the original part of the town were
                    partly in woods and partly in the "deadening" and some in the
                    cleared land. The town plat was laid out and recorded in the recorder's
                    office of 
                        Jefferson
                     county at 
                        Madison
                    . Notice of the sale of lots was given through papers published at
                            
                  Cincinnati, Louisville, Lexington
                and 
                        Frankfort
                    . The sale took place in November, 1813, and was cried by John M.
                    Johnston, Elisha Golay acting as clerk of the sale, the price varying from
                    $22 to $92. Other lots were sold later at private sale.
                    Dr. Eggleston says: 
                        The sound of the anvil in the smithy and the soft clatter of remote cow
                            bells on the commons linger in my mind as memories inseparable from my
                            boyhood in 
                                Vevay
                            . A certain poetic feeling which characterized my life from
                            childhood and which perhaps finally determined my course toward literary
                            pursuits was nourished by my delight in the noble scenery about
                                    
                        Vevay,
                                    Madison
                      and New 
                                Albany
                             in which places I lived at various times. Nothing could be
                            finer than our all day excursions to the woods in search of hickory
                            nuts, wild grapes, blackberries and pawpaws. or of nothing at all but
                            the sheer pleasure of wandering in one of the noblest forests that it
                            ever fell to a boy's lot to have for a playground. Then too,
                            when we had some business five or even twenty-five miles away, we
                            scorned to take the steamboat but just set out afoot along the river
                            bank getting no end of pleasure out of the walk and out of that sense of
                            power which unusual fatigue cheerfully borne always gives. The old story
                            of 
                        Vevay, Switzerland
                     , can almost be
                            used here in Indiana. "A quaint old town nestling at the foot
                            of lofty mountains in the midst of vineyards and gardens of beautiful
                            flowers."
                    
            
         
         
         
            Universalism in Indiana
            By REV. ELMO ARNOLD
                        ROBINSON, 
                        Anderson
                    
                    (Concluded)
            
            THE PRESENT STATE CONVENTION
            
            Dissatisfaction with the refusal of the "old" Convention to
                    affiliate with the General Convention led to the organization of the present
                    Universalist Convention of Indiana, at the home of Erasmus Manford in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on May 12, 1848. Others present who were apparently ministers were
                    Charles Cravens, Alpheus Bull, W. J. Chaplin, M. N. Byington, James Freeman
                    (chairman) and B. F. Foster (clerk). Lay delegates were A. Labertaw, W. I.
                    Hubbard, W. Henderson, Royal Hicks, W. R. Rose and I. H. 
                        Jordan
                     from the White River Association; John Miller,
                    Sr., John Miller, Jr., Lewis Cockafair, Ma-haundry Hollingsworth from the
                    Whitewater Association; John Pool, John Bayless, from the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Association; and from the society at Dublin, A. D. Smith, S. G.
                    Custer and L. A. Custer. Rising Sun, 
                        Madison
                    , Saluda and Vernon were admitted to fellowship and ministerial
                    fellowship was given to James Freeman of 
                        Greensburg
                    , W. J. Chaplin of Summit, and G. C. Linon of Putnamville. A
                    constitution was adopted. Resolutions were adopted favoring Sunday schools,
                    asserting the necessity of accepting the Bible, opposing creeds, and also,
                    although opposed by Manford and Craven, asserting the necessity of belief in
                    final harmony as an essential to ordination. From this date until the present,
                    the Convention has met yearly or oftener.
            From 1848 to 1862 may be called the organization period, during which the
                    Convention was gradually put on a permanent basis. The sessions were devoted
                    primarily to fellowship and discussion, and, while plans were often proposed,
                    little work was actually done between meetings. The average attendance of
                    ministers was about fourteen. Those attending  most regularly were B. F. Foster, W. J. Chaplin, A. H. Long-ley, W. C.
                    Brooks, B. B. Bennett, W. W. Curry and Daniel St. John. Toward the end of the
                    period M. G. Lee, T. J. Vater and H. F. Miller became prominent.
            Several matters of denominational policy came up during this period. The
                    relationship of the new Convention to the old was a problem. After a discussion
                    at the meeting of 1850, W. J. Chaplin was sent to the old Convention as a
                    messenger, presumably for the purpose of harmony or union. The last meeting of
                    the old Convention was apparently in 1854. Two years later its members were
                    again invited to affiliate with the present body. The latter adopted a new
                    constitution m 1855.
            A proposed new Western Convention of Universalists to include Indiana,
                            
                  Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin
                and 
                        Iowa
                     was discussed in 1855. Two years later a vote approved a plan to
                    divide the 
                        United States
                     Convention into four independent bodies. But by 1859 sentiment had
                    changed and a proposition to approve disbanding the 
                        United States
                     Convention was rejected. The importance of church membership, the
                    Christian ordinances and a sense of personal responsibility were emphasized in
                    1862.
            The status of missionary work during this period is obscure. In 1852 the
                    "work of W. J. Chaplin and the Missionary Society" was
                    approved. The Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Association later raised funds for circuit work. In 1858 the
                    establishment of a missionary board was proposed.
            The sessions of the Convention seem to have been optimistic in spirit. The chief
                    complaint was lack of ministers. Even during the war, in 1862, a spirited and
                    businesslike session, accompanied by many conversions, is reported. At this time
                    there were eight Associations, forty-six churches and twenty ministers in
                    fellowship.
            The twenty years beginning in 1862 may be called the missionary period of the
                    Convention's history, as there was considerable attention given to the
                    spreading of Universalism within the borders of the State. The average
                    ministerial attendance upon Conventions was about twelve. Of those mentioned as
                    prominent during the preceding period, Foster,  Brooks, and Curry continued active. T. J. Vater is
                    recorded as being present at fifteen of the nineteen sessions. H. F. Miller
                    attended frequently. Other clerical names found most often in this period are M.
                    D. Crosley, Thomas Abbott, M. G. 
                        Mitchell
                    , T. S. Guthrie, D. R. Biddlecome and R. N. John.
            At the session of 1863 a Board of Missions was appointed and soon incorporated.
                    There is little evidence that this board ever accomplished very much. In 1867 a
                    motion to disband the board was lost, but two years later it had no positive
                    report to make. In 1873 it was merged with the Executive Committee. Some things,
                    however, were done. Rev. H. F. Miller was secured as State missionary in
                    November, 1863, and served perhaps a year. M. G. 
                        Mitchell
                     replaced him in February, 1865, and continued perhaps a year and a
                    half. The Army Mission in 
                        Kentucky
                    , maintained for a time by the Northwestern Conference of
                    Universalists, was supported by Indiana churches. Reverend Munson was sent to
                    Canton (N. Y.) Theological School for training for the ministry. The convention
                    called for a full time superintendent of churches in 1870, and, for about a
                    year, W. W. Curry gave at least a part of his time to this work. The next
                    Convention again called for a superintendent and planned to pay him
                    $1,000, but apparently no one was appointed.
            After the abandonment of the idea of a Missionary Board in 1873, W. W. Curry was
                    again asked to serve as superintendent, and did so. 
                        Marion
                     Crosley succeeded him in 1874, and J. B. Gilman of Smithson college
                    in 1876. An evangelistic campaign was planned in 1875. At the session two years
                    later $300 was pledged for the superintendency, but no one was
                    employed then or until 1879, when W. C. Brooks was appointed. He served about
                    two years. In 1881 T. J. Vater was chosen to replace him, but refused to serve.
                    The next year R. N. John was elected and nearly $700 was quickly
                    pledged for his support.
            The question of legal incorporation came to the front several times. The
                    above-mentioned Board of Missions was incorporated on December 2, 1863. A
                    committee on incorporation of the Convention was appointed about 1870, but had
                    made no report three years later. Another vote authorizing  incorporation was passed in 1882, and the following
                    year the legal requirements were met and the incorporation placed on record at 
                        Marion
                    .
            Among other matters of denominational policy we may note that a new constitution
                    was adopted in 1868, and that internal dissensions of an unknown legal nature
                    arose in 1869. At this session the proposition of securing a Sunday school
                    missionary was discussed, leading the following year to the consideration of
                    organizing a separate Sunday school convention. This step was taken at Dublin in
                    1871. The first women's organization, the Women's Smithson
                    Association, was a temporary affair, formed in 1871, for the purpose of helping
                    Smithson college. In 1879 the Convention asked the women to organize, and they
                    did so.
            The question of the relationship between the State and General Conventions, so
                    prominent in the early days, was now accepted as settled. The General Convention
                    gave financial aid to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     church in 1872 and 1873.
            The years 1882 to 1898 may be classified as the period of financial development.
                    Ministers of the previous period who continued active in the Convention during
                    this were R. N. John and T. S. Guthrie. Others who came to the front were T. E.
                    Ballard, I. B. Grandy, J. B. Fosher, 
                        Henry
                     Groves, 
                        Henry
                        Brown
                     and Mary T. 
                        Clark
                    . Drs. Demerest and Cantwell, representing the larger denominational
                    interests, were frequent visitors. A home study course for ministers was
                    provided for in 1895, and in the following year placed under the direction of
                    the newly reorganized ministerial circle. The only serious case of ministerial
                    discipline came during this period. Charges were preferred against M. W. Tabor,
                    who left the State to avoid trial. Charges were also brought against I. B.
                    Grandy, who at first was suspended for a year, but upon appeal was practically
                    acquitted. Counter-charges were also preferred against other clergymen, but
                    these were never deemed worthy of serious consideration.
            As above recorded, R. N. John was chosen State missionary or superintendent in
                    1882. He served in that capacity until 1891, at a salary of from $600
                    to $800 per year. During the last two years of this period, however,
                    on account of lack  of funds, he gave only a
                    part of his time to the work. His reports indicate that he was very active and
                    enthusiastic. His chief fields of activity were preaching, arranging pastorates,
                    publishing a large four-page paper called The Convention
                    Reporter, and helping to solicit the permanent funds of the convention.
                    After his resignation the office remained vacant for some years, and no mention
                    of the superintendency occurs until 1897, when the Ministerial Association asked
                    for an appointment to be made.
            The Convention adopted a new constitution and by-laws at the time of its
                    incorporation in 1883. The following year it was proposed to raise a
                    $20,000 fund to be used only for missionary purposes, and the success
                    of this undertaking led to the increase of the goal two years later to
                    $40,000. The early gifts to this fund were in the form of farms, some
                    of which were apparently to pay annuities to the donors during their lifetime.
                    The first gift was in 1884, by Christian Swank, and consisted of over 200 acres
                    near Sheldon, 
                        Allen
                     county, the second, in 1888, by Edmund Green, included eighty acres
                    near Aldine, 
                        Starke
                     county. The records are not clear as to the exact value of these
                    and other lands, but in 1885 the estimate of the total was $10,000.
                    The labor involved in caring for these properties resulted in the gradual sale
                    of the land and the adoption of the policy of investing the funds in first
                    mortgages. The Convention was involved in certain lawsuits in connection with
                    the wills of Joshua Smithson of 
                        Vevay
                     and of a Mr. Foxworthy, but these are recorded as being settled
                    favorably to the Convention.
            Missionary matters were not entirely forgotten during this period. The
                    organization of a Young People's Missionary Association was urged in
                    1884 and perfected in 1890, under the name of the Young People's
                    Christian Union. In this same year a church extension society was proposed, but
                    the plans did not mature. In 1889 there was organized a State church, which was
                    to consist of isolated Universalists who wished to become church members. In
                    1897 this church was merged with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     society. In 1891 and '92 it was proposed to give
                    Convention aid to the erection of a church building in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and to the payment of the pastor's salary.  A decision of an anti-missionary character came in
                    1893, when the custom was abolished of receiving upon the floor of the
                    Convention pledges for home missionary work. The session at Brookston, in 1898,
                    is recorded as having a larger number of churches represented than any previous
                    sessionnamely, twenty-five; seventy-two officers, ministers and
                    delegates were present.
            The 
                        United States
                     or General Convention was appealed to twice during this period for
                    aid for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which was presumably granted, for in 1892 the minutes record that
                    this was the only year that the Convention had not been aided by the General
                    Convention. The truth of this statement may be doubted, but evidently it had
                    been the custom for a number of years to receive such aid. Five years later
                    $50 was voted to the General Convention, and since that time when
                    money has passed between the two Conventions it has been in that direction. The
                    Anti-rationalist controversy came to the surface in a resolution passed in 1896,
                    which was followed the next year by instructions to the delegates to the General
                    Convention to oppose any change in the Universalist profession of faith.
            Several attempts were made to prepare a history of Indiana Universalism. In 1884
                    J. A. Stoner and T. E. Helm were appointed a Committee on History, and later R.
                    N. John was added. From year to year progress was reported and some form of
                    publication was promised in 1890. No further mention is made of this committee,
                    and the only taace of their work is the valuable private collection of books now
                    in the hands of Mrs. J. A. Stoner.
            The Rome City meetings stand out as the prominent feature of the years 1898 to
                    1917.
            The only previously mentioned clerical leader in the Convention who remained
                    active during this period was T. S. Guthrie. The new leaders were M. D. Crosley,
                    James Houghton, G. I. Keirn, George Crum, H. C. Beckett, Leon and Martha Jones
                    and F. D. 
                        Adams
                    .
            The custom of holding the sessions of the Convention in the various parishes was
                    abandoned, during the years 1899-1913, inclusive, for the plan of enlarging the
                    scope of the sessions  to include a summer
                    Chautauqua and outing at Rome City. These meetings were in charge of a manager
                    who made arrangements with railroads, hotels and speakers. This office was held
                    by Revs. M. D. Crosley, the originator of the idea; J. E. Haffner, J. S. Cook,
                    and Mr. John Clifford. At one time it was proposed to make the summer meetings
                    of greater interest to Universalists of the middle west by placing them in the
                    hands of a committee representing the various State Conventions, but this plan
                    failed to materialize. Similarly, the endeavor to secure the co-operation of the
                    Unitarians in the management of the meetings met with delay and defeat.
            The speakers at these meetings from year to year included many of the
                    denominational leaders, such as Drs. I. M. At-wood, F. W. Bisbee, W. H.
                    McGaufiin and C. E. Nash. The attendance was large and the interest keen at the
                    beginning, but gradually conditions changed. The vacation possibilities of the
                    resort began to interfere with the business sessions of the Convention.
                    Moreover, the location was inconvenient for those in the southern part of the
                    State. On the other hand, the business problems of the Convention were increased
                    by the establishment of the Thompson Home. Consequently, it was found necessary
                    to hold adjourned sessions at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in February of the years 1909 to 1915, inclusive (except 1913).
                    These conditions led to the abandonment of the Rome City meetings, and in 1914
                    to the return of the previous policy of holding sessions in various parts of the
                    State.
            Some of the items of business during this period were the adoption of a new
                    constitution in 1901, the temporary merging of the Sunday School Convention with
                    the Church Convention for five years beginning in 1905, the publication of the
                        Convention Reporter for a few years, and the approval of a
                    short-lived organization known as the Laymen's League. In 1908 it was
                    proposed to seek closer co-operation between Universalists, Unitarians and New
                    Light Christians, but the sponsor of this idea changed his mind during the
                    following year. This desire for church unity has been more recently manifested
                    in a vote to seek admittance into the Indiana Federation of Churches. Another
                    significant movement was the evangelistic campaign of the season of 1912-13,
                    when it was  planned to have every church in
                    the State hold an evangelistic service of at least one week's duration.
                    This is believed to have been the first state-wide campaign of evangelism in the
                    denomination.
            M. D. Crosley became State Superintendent in June, 1899, and continued in the
                    office for about four years, but he gave only a part of his time to the work.
                    Plans were developed for placing Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     under one superintendent, but apparently the latter State withdrew
                    from the agreement. J. S. Cook was called to the superintendency in October,
                    1905, and gave his entire time to the work for a year and a half. In 1907
                    Crosley was again re-elected to the office, but served only a short time. For
                    several years Mr. John Clifford has given a portion of his time to this office
                    without pay. In 1916 Rev. Charles E. Petty was chosen superintendent.
            Some miscellaneous missionary work was done in the early part of the period, but
                    in 1908 the Executive Board adopted the present policy of centralization. The
                    plan is to concentrate the resources of the Convention upon a few points for a
                    number of years until they are self-supporting. The churches at
                            
                  Indianapolis,
                            Anderson, Logansport
                and Cunot have been included in
                    this arrangement.
            The Rationalistic controversy, already referred to, came to a climax in 1900-01.
                    A number of Indiana clergymen began to adopt the Rationalistic views advocated
                    by the higher critics of the Bible, which were spreading generally among
                    Universalists. Rev. T. E. Ballard, who was a pronounced Supernaturalist, entered
                    the lists in defense of the older ideas. He correctly pointed out "that
                    originally, and until recently, the Universalist Church upon this issue stood
                    with the Super-naturalist, believed in the miracles of the Bible, and accepted
                    its teachings in all matters of real faith and practice, as the word of
                    God." At the Convention of 1900 he introduced a resolution which
                    included the following:
            This had been originally written by Hosea Ballou of New 
                        England
                     and adopted by a General Convention in 1847, just at the time when
                    the whole denomination was greatly alarmed by the Rationalistic teachings of
                    Jonathan Kidwell and a few like-minded men.
            
            This controversy of 1900 was, therefore, almost identical with that of fifty
                    years earlier. The main question was Rationalism vs.
                    Supernaturalism. Personal elements also entered into the debate. But there was
                    this difference. The whole denomination, including Indiana, had really changed
                    front, and it was now Ballard, the supporter of Supernaturalism, who pleaded
                    against what Kidwell would have called the influence of the "little
                    bishops."
            This resolution was introduced during the last hour devoted to business. Its
                    opponents cut off debate by a motion to table, which they carried by a yea and
                    nay vote of 51 to 10, thus defeating the resolution. The session concluded in
                    some confusion. Rev. J. W. Hanson of 
                        Chicago
                    , who was to have preached the following day, immediately withdrew
                    his appointment by announcing that he had "no desire to preach to a
                    Convention which votes down the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ."
                    Several months later Mr. T. E. Ballard, who had been one of the first students
                    at Smithson college, and had been present at all sessions of the Convention from
                    1873 to 1900, inclusive, except 1876, 1882 and 1899, withdrew from fellowship
                    and entered the Methodist ministry.
            In the last fifteen years whatever controversies there have been have concerned
                    the administration of the fund, rather than theological matters. The Convention
                    has had in fellowship both Rationalists and those who were not, but men of both
                    temperaments have developed a new spirit of toleration.
            The following table gives some data of the Convention:
            
            
               
                  Year
                  Place
                  Funds
                  Moderator
                  Vice-President
                  Clerk
                  Treasurer
               
               
                  1848
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  
                  A. Labertaw
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  W. I. Hubbard
               
               
                  1848
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  
                  J. M. 
                                Jordan
                            
                  
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  N. R. Stedmen.
               
               
                  1849
                  Dublin
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1850
                  Patriot
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  A. Gaylay.
               
               
                  1851
                  
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                        
                  
                  John Pool
                  
                  W. P. Watson
                  P. D. Page.
               
               
                  1852
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  B F. Foster
                  I. L. Case
               
               
                  1853
                  Danville
                  
                  E. Singer
                  
                  B. F. Eoster
                  James Wright
               
               
                  1854
                  
                            
                                Fairfield
                            
                        
                  
                  W. J.Chaplin
                  
                  M. G. Lee
                  James Wright.
               
               
                  1855
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  John Miller, Jr.
               
               
                  1856
                  LaFayette
                  
                  A. H. Longley
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  John Miller, Jr.
               
               
                  1857
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  
                  A. H. Longley
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1858
                  Devon
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  S. J. 
                                Gibson
                            
                  
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1859
                  
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                        
                  
                  A. H. Longley
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1860
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  
                  E. Singer
                  
                  B. F. Foster
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1861
                  Pendleton
                  
                  E. Singer
                  
                  H. F. Miller
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1862
                  Hunterstown
                  
                  John Huston
                  
                  H. F. Miller
                  M. G. Lee.
               
               
                  1863
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  H. F. Miller
                  S. Hathaway.
               
               
                  1S64
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  
                  E. Singer
                  
                  M. D. Crosley
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1865
                  Dublin
                  
                  B. F. Miller
                  
                  M. D. Crosley
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1866
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
                  
                  H. Tripp
                  
                  M. D. Crosley
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1867
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
                  
                  M. G. Mitchell
                  
                  George Rogers
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1868
                  LaFayette
                  
                  J. B. McGrew
                  
                  H. C. Munsen
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1869
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
                  
                  A. W. Bruce
                  
                  George Rogers
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1870
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  
                  W. W. Curry
                  D. Bowsman.
               
               
                  1871
                  Pendleton
                  
                  P. R. Kendall
                  
                  W. W. Curry
                  Jacob Custer.
               
               
                  1872
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
                  
                  T. J. Vater
                  J. W. Eldridge
                  F. W. Evans
                  Samuel Oler.
               
               
                  1873
                  LaFayette
                  
                  T. J. Vater
                  J. W. Eldridge
                  M. D. Crosley
                  G. W. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1874
                  N. Vernon
                  
                  T. J. Vater
                  George Rogers
                  M. D. Crosley
                  G. W. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1875
                  
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                        
                  
                  N. S. Sage
                  George Rogers
                  M. D. Crosley
                  G. W. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1876
                  Dublin
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  Mrs.W. S.Phelps
                  M. D. Crosley
                  G. W. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1877
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  S. O. Budd
                  M. D. Crosley
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1878
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  S. O. Budd
                  M. D. Crosley
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1879
                  Dublin
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  Jacob Custer
                  R. N. John
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1880
                  Roann
                  
                  F. H. Sleeper
                  Ezra Bourne
                  R. N. John
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1881
                  Muncle
                  
                  M. Trussler
                  Ezra Bourne
                  R. N. John
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
               
                  1882
                  Dublin
                  
                  M. Trussler
                  Ezra Bourne
                  R. N. John
                  J. M. McQuaddy.
               
               
                  1883
                  Mier
                  
                  C. H. Jenne
                  T. E. Ballard
                  T. C. Druley
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1884
                  Bluffton
                  
                  C. H. Jenne
                  I. B. Grandy
                  T. E. Ballard
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1885
                  Dublin
                  
                  J. M. Bulla
                  I. B. Grandy
                  H. N. Brown
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1886
                  Bluffton
                  
                  Chas. Styer
                  T. E. Ballard
                  Hattie B. Johnson
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1887
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
                  
                  Chas. Styer
                  T. E. Ballard
                  Hattie B. Johnson
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1888
                  Devon
                  
                  J. B. Fosher
                  T. E. Ballard
                  Hattie B. Johnson
                  S. O. Budd.
               
               
                  1889
                  Roann
                  
                  S. O. Budd
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  T. E. Ballard
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1890
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  
                  S. O. Budd
                  J. H. Hewit
                  S. J. Merrell
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1891
                  Dublin
                  $ 2,990
                  William Paulus
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  W. S. Stewart
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1892
                  Roann 
                  7,200
                  J. M. Bulla
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  W. S. Stewart
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1893
                  
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                        
                  11,200
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  A. C. Stouder
                  W. S. Stewart
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1894
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  11,640
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  A. C. Stouder
                  W. S. Stewart
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1895
                  
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                        
                  13,470
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  D. L. Parker
                  Flora Brown
                  W. W. Raub.
               
               
                  1896
                  McCordsville
                  13,090
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  T. E. Ballard
                  Flora Brown
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1897
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  18,270
                  T. S. Guthrie
                  T. E. Ballard
                  Flora Brown
                  C. T. Swain.
               
               
                  1898
                  Brookston
                  21,490
                  A. C. Stouder
                  A.S. Bordner
                  Flora Brown
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1899
                  Rome City
                  21,220
                  A. C. Stouder
                  A. S. Bordner
                  Flora Brown
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1900
                  Rome City
                  27,620
                  A. C. Stouder
                  A. S. Bordner
                  Flora Brown
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1901
                  Rome City
                  29,270
                  A. S. Bordner
                  G. W. Stanley
                  Flora Brown
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1902
                  Rome City
                  32,870
                  A. S. Bordner
                  G. W. Stanley
                  J. A. Haffner
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1903
                  Rome City
                  32,970
                  G. W. Stanley
                  F. C. Ball
                  J. A. Haffner
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1904
                  Rome City
                  37,470
                  G. W. Stanley
                  F. C. Ball
                  G. H. Bower
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1905
                  Rome City
                  46,090
                  G. W. Stanley
                  G. H. Bower
                  Flora Brown
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1906
                  Rome City
                  50,181
                  G. I. Keirn
                  G. H. Bower
                  Nellie Stouder
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1907
                  Home City
                  48,730
                  G. I. Keirn
                  A. C. Birkley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1908
                  Rome City
                  49,340
                  George Crum
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Nellie Stouder
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1909
                  Rome City
                  54,190
                  George Crum
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Nellie Stouder
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1910
                  Rome City
                  
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Clay Whiteley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  J. H. Hewit.
               
               
                  1911
                  Rome City
                  56,000
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Clay Whiteley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
               
                  1912
                  Rome City
                  56,790
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Clay Whiteley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
               
                  1913
                  Rome City
                  95,110
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Clay Whiteley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
               
                  1914
                  Waldron
                  96,110
                  J. F. Clifford
                  Clay Whiteley
                  Nellie Stouder
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
               
                  1915
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  103,736
                  J. F. Clifford
                  H. C. Beckett
                  E. A. Robinson
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
               
                  1916
                  
                            
                                Anderson
                            
                        
                  105,462
                  J. F. Clifford
                  H. C. Beckett
                  Nellie Stouder
                  Melvin Beagle.
               
            
            
            EDUCATIONAL INTERESTS
            
            At the meeting of the Western Convention of Universalists at Philomath, 1833, the
                    first action in regard to educational matters was taken. Jonathan Kidwell and a
                    few friends were proposing to establish here a Universalist town and to found a
                    non-sectarian academy, organizing for this purpose the Western Union
                    Association. The State of Indiana, February 2, 1833, had granted a charter to 
                        Israel
                     Bigelow, Daniel St. John, James Ayres, Aaron De La 
                        Barr
                    , William D. Jones, Jesse Willetts, Peter J. Labertaw, John Beard
                    and Jonathan Kidwell for the founding of the school. The Convention now accepted
                    from this association a proposition to take charge of the seminary, but
                    appointed Mr. Kidwell a committee to raise funds for the building. Apparently,
                    he was not successful, for three years later the trust of the seminary was
                    resigned to the Western Union Association. During this time a building had been
                    erected and 
                        Henry
                     Houseworth placed in charge of the school. He was the author of the
                        Federurbian, or 
                            United States
                         Primer. It was during this period that Mr. Kidwell began
                    the publication of his Philomath Encyclopedia, or Circle of
                        Sciences, seven' volumes of which were issued.
            The plans for the town and its academy were never satisfactorily realized. Just
                    how far the possible causes of failurethe general conditions of the
                    age, unwise management, opposition to Kidwell's
                    theologywere responsible is uncertain. The Western Convention
                    borrowed $225 for the school in 1833; ten years later the 
                        Ohio
                     Convention was trying to raise money to pay this obligation. Mr.
                    Kidwell recounted that he personally had in eight years "sustained a
                    clear loss of $2,000 on a steam mill; sunk more than
                    $1,000 on the Western Union Seminary; paid more than
                    $1,000 security money," and this in addition to
                    $2,000 unpaid subscriptions to his magazine.
            After the ending of the Kidwell-Manford controversy there came a new interest in
                    educational problems, both civil and ecclesiastical. In 1850 a resolution
                    pledged Universalists to the support of a liberal and enlightened system of
                    education in the State. The extension of free common schools and  higher institutions of learning was encouraged in
                    1853, and a committee on education and reforms was appointed. Indiana schools
                    were criticised in 1859. Several clergymen connected themselves with, or
                    organized, small private schools, such as Patriot Collegiate Institute, 
                        Jackson
                     Collegiate Institute, 
                        Logansport
                     Collegiate Institute.
            In 1854 the Convention voiced an expression of the need for a Universalist
                    seminary. In the following year a committee was appointed to undertake the
                    establishment of such an institution. It was proposed to raise
                    $50,000 for this purpose. In 1857 the committee reported that the
                    Green Mountain College at 
                        Richmond
                     was for sale. This was a coeducational, non-sectarian institution,
                    under control of John Haines, who offered it to the Universalists at one-half
                    its value, and also offered to sell them a hundred acres of land at their own
                    price. This offer was not accepted.
            After several attempts to organize a denominational school, a meeting was held at
                            
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , in March of 1857 or
                    1858, under the name of the Universalist Collegiate Association of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. Trustees were elected, their successors to be chosen
                    by the two Conventions; W. W. Curry became their agent; and 
                        Oxford
                     was named as the location of the proposed college. But there was
                    considerable dissatisfaction with the choice of 
                        Oxford
                    . Sidney and 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , and 
                        Richmond
                     and Liberty, Indiana, were all rival claimants. The 
                        Ohio
                     Convention failed to elect trustees, and within a few months Mr.
                    Curry resigned. A mass meeting was held at 
                        Hamilton
                     in November, at which the decision as to location was reopened and
                    left undecided. This meeting was attended by Revs. B. F. Miller, B. F. Foster,
                    M. G. Lee from Indiana, also Mathias Fosher of Fincastle and J. 0. Barrett of
                    La-Porte. Lee and Barrett were chosen on a committee to solicit subscriptions.
                    Fifty thousand dollars was to be raised, and the subscribers were then to elect
                    trustees and choose a location. These very excellent ideals did not materialize.
            The interest of Indiana Universalists was next turned to the Northwestern
                    Conference of Universalists. This embraced the States of Indiana,
                            
                  Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . It was an educational and missionary  movement. The first organization was effected in
                    September, 1860, at which W. W. Curry was vice-president from Indiana. The Civil
                    War interrupted its proposed activity.
            The Conference, therefore, turned its attention to an Army Mission, formally
                    established in May, 1864. H. F. Miller, Indiana superintendent, was assisted by
                    a number of other men. The purpose of the mission was to carry out general
                    ministerial labor in the camps, hospital and the soldiers' homes at 
                        Louisville
                    , New 
                  Albany,
                            Madison, Lexington, Nashville
               , etc.
            After the close of the war the Conference met at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1866. The total of pledges for Lombard had now reached
                    $85,000; at this session $4,000 more was added. Meanwhile
                    the women of the middle west had secured $6,000 for missionary
                    purposes. The Conference continued its work for a few years, and then
                    surrendered its jurisdiction to the General Convention.
            The success of the Lombard campaign kept alive the vision of a college in
                    Indiana. And at last the way seemed opened by the legacy of Joshua Smithson of 
                        Vevay
                    , who left a generous bequest for educational purposes. The report
                    of his will to the Indiana Convention of 1867 resulted in the appointment of a
                    committee on seminary. During the next twelve months this committee considered
                    possible sites, giving special attention to 
                        Kokomo
                     and 
                        Muncie
                    , and finally reported in favor of the latter. This decision was
                    accepted by the Convention and a constitution for the seminary was adopted. But
                    the ideals of the people expanded, and, to clear the way for further bequests,
                    the choice of 
                        Muncie
                     was rescinded and the question of site reopened. In 1870, as a
                    result of a conditional gift of $20,000 from Mrs. Eliza Pollard of 
                        Logansport
                    , the proposition for an academy enlarged into one for a college to
                    be located in that city.
            The building, designed for safety, comfort and usefulness, was ready for the
                    opening of the school in January, 1872. Various courses, academic, philosophic,
                    college preparatory, college, commercial and special, were offered. The work was
                    of a grade corresponding to advanced high school and elementary  college work of today. The tuition was from
                    $30 to $36 a year, and students came from various parts of
                    the middle west, and even from western 
                        New York
                    .
            Unfortunately, troubles immediately arose. The trustees had been unwise in
                    expending so large a part of their fund for building and equipment. The student
                    body was not so numerous as expected, as Universalists continued to send their
                    children to "orthodox" schools. There were difficulties in
                    maintaining discipline, and the faculty itself did not escape criticism. Finally
                    it became difficult to get any kind of faculty at all, and this condition
                    naturally caused a further decrease in the number of students.
            Reports which gradually increased in pessimism were made each year to the
                    Convention. In 1874 an attempt was made to collect $22,000 in unpaid
                    pledges. Mrs. Caroline Soule, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Crosley, J. B. Gilman and
                    others were successively, but not successfully, sent out over the State for this
                    purpose. An effort was made to secure co-operation from Universalists in
                    neighboring States. As a result of the impatience of the creditors, lawsuits
                    began to develop. A bond issue was authorized and partly floated to meet
                    pressing obligations. George Rogers of LaFayette and J. N. Converse helped to
                    meet a deficiency of $4,000. Judge 
                        Henry
                     Cravens of Pendleton was another who placed a large part of his
                    personal wealth at the disposal of the college. But in 1878 the report came that
                    creditors had obtained a judgment, that the college was closed, and that
                    trustees were about to be financially crushed. The Convention voted sympathy and
                    regret.
            Thus ended the attempts of Indiana Universalists to establish a permanent
                    educational institution within the borders of their State. In subsequent years
                    they have contributed small amounts to Lombard. In 1909 there was a proposal to
                    undertake a denominational school at 
                        Muncie
                    , but this received no serious consideration. At the present time
                    there is no great interest in educational matters.
            SUBORDINATE ORGANIZATION
            
            Resolutions in favor of Sunday schools indicate that, from the days of pioneer
                    Universalism down to the present,  religious
                    education has been fostered by the more vigorous churches and doubtless
                    neglected by the weaker ones.
            In 1869 the Convention discussed the proposition of securing a Sunday school
                    missionary. This discussion was continued the next year and in 1871 at Dublin it
                    led to the organization of a Sunday School Convention. The yearly sessions of
                    this organization have been usually held in connection with the Convention.
                    Occasionally the sessions have been held at a different time and place. In 1905
                    this organization was merged with the Church Convention and in 1910 it was
                    reorganized.
            Among those most prominent in its work during the last thirty years are Charles
                    Styer of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , C. T. Swain of Dublin, Cora Foster (Whitmeyer) of Roann, lOrlando
                    Moseley of Peru, and Melvin Beagle of Oaklandon and Wal-dron.
            The Blue River Association voted in 1845 "that the
                    sisters belonging to Universalist Societies throughout this Association be
                    entitled to the same privileges in our councils as the male members."
                    Equal suffrage for men and women, and equal opportunities to hold office and to
                    enter the ministry seem always to have been the rule among Indiana
                    Uni-versalists.
            The first woman mentioned in the minutes of the present convention was Miss
                    Sallie Knapp of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , who in 1868 was nominated to serve on the Education Committee. She
                    was the daughter of Rev. E. M. Knapp.
            The first woman's organization was a temporary affair formed in 1871 for
                    the purpose of helping Smithson college. It was known as the Women's
                    Smithson Association. Again in 1879 the Convention asked the women to organize
                    and they did so. The record of their activities is not preserved.
            The present women's organization, the Woman's Universalist
                    Missionary Society of the State of Indiana, dates from 1900. Its work has been
                    to foster the study of and work for missions among Universalist women. It has
                    contributed to the various home and foreign fields of the denomination.
            Its presidents have been Rev. Sara Stoner (1900-'02),  Mrs. Mary E. Case of 
                        Muncie
                     ('03), Mrs. May Lewis of Mt. Carmel and 
                        Anderson
                     ('04-'13), Miss Cordelia Britton of 
                        Anderson
                     ('14-'16). The latter also served as secretary
                    (04-'13), Mrs. Kate K. Brownback of Pendleton was the first treasurer
                    and continued to serve until 1912.
            The organization of a Young People's Missionary Association was urged in
                    1884 and perfected in 1890 under the name of the Young People's
                    Christian Union. Meetings have been held yearly in connection with the State
                    Convention.
            A Ministerial Association has been maintained intermittently for a number of
                    years.
            SOCIAL SERVICE
            
            A large portion of the Convention minutes, especially in the early days, consist
                    of resolutions upon public questions. Capital punishment has ever and frequently
                    been condemned. Slavery and the return of fugitive slaves was opposed in 1854
                    and 1856. Education and Christian treatment of the Indians were demanded in
                    1875.
            War has been denounced and peace held up as the ideal, except when the 
                        United States
                     has been at war. The Convention voted its approval of the Civil and
                    the Spanish Wars.
            Temperance and prohibition have been favored in numerous resolutions. In 1873 one
                    of these practically endorsed the Prohibition party.
            Universalists were urged to vote for Christian men for office in 1854. Corrupt
                    practices in civil government were condemned in 1875.
            The first equal suffrage resolution is dated 1882 and has been followed by many
                    others.
            In 1852 Rev. John 
                        Allen
                     was condemned for "his socialism and his
                    dancing." Industrial justice and reform have been demanded in more
                    recent years.
            A more practical form of social service was attempted at Dublin in 1905 and 1906.
                    A home was established under Universalist auspices, which was to develop the
                    social life of the community. Today it would be called a community center. On
                    account of local misunderstanding and criticism the attempt was abandoned.
            
            The will of Delos H. Thompson of Waldron bequeathed his farm and an endowment to
                    the convention for the purpose of establishing a Home for Aged Women. The
                    attempt of certain heirs to break the will reduced the endowment and caused
                    delay, but the Home was opened for guests in 1913, under the direction of Mrs.
                    Melvin A. Beagle. Until the Home is enlarged the capacity will continue to be
                    limited to seven or eight guests.
            CONTACT WITH OTHER DENOMINATIONS
            
            The published histories of other denominations in Indiana make little reference
                    to Universalism. Its adherents are often by implication classed as atheists and
                    infidels. The more recent writers, however, treat them with greater
                    consideration. In Levering's Historic Indiana (page
                    172) the first Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana (Christopher 
                        Harrison
                    ) is quoted as saying, "God is love. Love never lost
                    anything. It is infinitely tender, and infinitely forgiving." This
                    declaration of faith was made in a private conversation with an orthodox lady.
            A very fair presentation of the situation is found on page 82 of Circuit Rider Days in Indiana by Dr. W. W. Sweet (Methodist): 
                        The Methodists had strenuous debates with the
                            "Campbellites," the Presbyterians, and the Baptists,
                            but all denominations united against the Universalists. In the forties
                            there were several large debates held in the old court house at
                            Martinsville between the Universalist leader of the West, Rev. Erasmus
                            Manford, and James 
                                Scott
                            , a Methodist preacher. Manford declared that all mankind
                            would finally reach holiness and happiness, while 
                                Scott
                             affirmed the endless punishment of the unrepentant wicked.
                            At the close of the three day's debate Manford painted a hell
                            for 
                                Scott
                             and his brethren to look at, and then flung into it all the
                            human race that orthodoxy excluded from Heaven. 
                                Scott
                             retaliated by sending Judas to Heaven before his Lord, and
                            by carrying all liars and lechers, seducers and murderers, to
                            Abraham's bosom, "all bedeviled and
                            unrepentant" as they were. Manford replied that Mr. 
                                Scott
                             need not worry himself about heavenly society, for all
                            would be purified by the offering of Christ.
                    
            
            A picture of a different situation is found in The 
                            Chicago
                         Synod and Its Antecedents by 
                        Martin
                     L. Wagner, a Lutheran historian (page 83 ff):
            
            
                    This tide of revivalism in a few years began to ebb, and was followed by
                        another and far different movement, namely Universalism. It proved a
                        withering, blasting foe, and wormed itself into the churches like a deadly
                        serpent. It was first preached in Indiana in 1S25, and the sentiments were
                        readily accepted. To the masses it was more acceptable than infidelity. It
                        promised to man, even to the most profligate and ungodly, as well as to the
                        pious and faithful, an eternity of bliss, while unbelief promised nothing
                        beyond the grave. For years this doctrine was zealously preached and became
                        quite popular. Not many Universalist congregations were organized, but
                        Universalist sentiment obtained in the minds of many, even those who were
                        members of orthodox churches. It was looked upon as the ideal faith. It
                        acted as an insidious spiritual poison, as a blighting force upon the
                        spiritual powers, rather than a vitalizing energy. Its advocates, while in
                        many cases unable to convince their hearers of the correctness of its
                        tenets, succeeded at least in planting the seeds of doubt in their hearts,
                        and left them to grow and bring forth bitter and disappointing fruits. A
                        paper entitled The Star of the West, devoted to the
                        dissemination of Universalist church, was issued from 
                            Cincinnati
                        , and assiduously circulated among all classes. It was widely
                        read and its specious arguments appealed forcibly to the average reader. The
                        wish in the unregenerate heart became father to this faith, and the
                        arguments appeared to it unanswerable.
                    This periodical came into the hands of many Lutheran laymen through the
                        instrumentality of Rev. E. S. Henkel, and it wrought havoc with their
                        Lutheranism. Henkel encouraged them to read it, and study its arguments, and
                        its insidious poison destroyed their living faith. A number of laymen,
                        prominent in the local congregation, and well known in the Lutheran church
                        throughout Indiana, in their days, openly accepted Universalism and defended
                        its doctrines. St. John's Church, 
                            Floyd
                         county, Indiana, one of the oldest and numerically the
                        strongest Lutheran congregation in the State at that time, and the one at
                                
                     Salem, Washington
                   county, the
                        only city congregation in the synod, were destroyed by the blasting
                        influence of this heresy. But saddest of all some of the Lutheran pastors
                        aided and abetted in this work. Rev. E. S. Henkel was openly charged with
                        Universalism, and he confessed that it was his private belief. He did not
                        publicly preach it. When he became convinced of its correctness, he acted
                        consistently and demitted the ministry, and engaged in secular business. In
                        this he continued about two years, from 1849-51, when looking upon a severe
                        bodily affliction which came upon him regularly, as a visitation of 
                            Providence
                         for his apostacy, he renounced his heresy and resumed the
                        ministry.
                    Rev. E. Rudisill also came under its baneful influence. We have no evidence
                        that he ever publicly preached this doctrine, but like Henkel he also
                        demitted the ministry and engaged in the practice of medicine. For several
                        years he stood aloof from the church, and grew quite reckless. But returning
                        home upon one occasion he announced to his wife  that he would resume the ministerial office,
                        which he did. But the effect of the apostacy of these two prominent
                        ministers in the synod, upon the churches was disastrous. Their sincerity in
                        their return to the faith was always doubted, and their subsequent zeal
                        could not atone for the evil they had wrought.
                    By the year 1850 Universnlism had lost its charm for the Lutherans in
                        Indiana, and the churches began gradually to recover from its baneful
                        influence. While the churches of the synod of the west suffered from
                        revivalism and intense emotionalism, those of the synod of Indiana were
                        paralyzed and ravaged by Universalism.
                
            The debate was a characteristic point of contact between different types of
                    religious thought. These arguments were frequently carried on without malice or
                    bitterness, and by many were considered the most fair and honest method of
                    doctrinal teaching. Contacts of a different nature, looking toward union,
                    federation, or co-operation with other denominations, have already been
                    mentioned.
            The following is a partial list of Universalist debates:
            
            
               
                  Approximate Date.
                  Place.
                  Unlversalist.
                  Opponent.
                  Denomination of Opponent.
               
               
                  1829
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  J. Kidwell
                  E. M. Ray
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Burlington
                  Manford
                  Harper Hanna
                  
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Ft. 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  Manford
                  
                  Episcopalian.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  Smith
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Ladoga
                  Manford
                  Russell
                  Disciple
               
               
                  1838-44
                  
                            
                                Dayton
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  Russell
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Independence
                  Manford
                  
                            
                                Campbell
                            
                        
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  West Union
                  Manford
                  Dickerson
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Martinsville
                  Manford
                  
                            
                                Scott
                            
                        
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  J. M. Mathes
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1838-44
                  Covington
                  Manford
                  French
                  Baptist.
               
               
                  1838-14
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  W. J. Weight
                  
               
               
                  1838-44
                  
                            
                                Franklin
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  A. L. Emmons
                  
               
               
                  1842
                  Rising Sun
                  E. M. Pingree
                  B. U. Watkins
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1842
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  E. M. Pingree
                  John O'Kane
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1844
                  Perrysville
                  Marble
                  Dickerson
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1847
                  
                            
                                Milton
                            
                        
                  Manford
                  Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            
                  
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1854
                  
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                        
                  Curry
                  Priehard
                  
               
               
                  1857
                  New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
                  Curry
                  
                  
               
               
                  1862
                  Petersburg
                  Abbott
                  J. M. Mathes
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1862
                  
                            
                                Hartford City
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Mitchell
                            
                        
                  Waker
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1866
                  Knightstown
                  Foster
                  Makin
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1867
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
                  Foster
                  J. H. Lozier
                  Methodist.
               
               
                  1870
                  
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                        
                  Curry
                  Wm. Holt
                  
               
               
                  1870
                  Union City
                  S. P. Carlton
                  W.D.Moore
                  Disciple.
               
               
                  1874
                  Galveston
                  Ballard
                  
                  
               
               
                  1875
                  Near Roachdale
                  Ballard
                  
                  
               
               
                  1876
                  Roann
                  Ballard
                  
                  
               
               
                  1884
                  Mechanicsburg
                  Billiard
                  W. J.Howe
                  
               
               
                  1890
                  
                            
                                Beech Grove
                            
                        
                  Ballard
                  W. H.Williams
                  
               
               
                  1898
                  Middleford
                  Ballard
                  
                  
               
               
                  1899
                  Kirkland
                  Ballard
                  
                  
               
            
            
            UNIVERSALIST MINISTERS OF
                        INDIANA
            
            The following, probably incomplete, list contains the names of Universalist
                    ministers who have lived in Indiana, together with the places where they have
                    preached. These abbreviations are used, b for born, d for died,  for now known to be living, fr for from, lie for
                    licensed, ord for ordained, fel for fellowshipped (usually from other
                    denomination), dis for disfellowshipped:
            
               ABBOTT, THOMAS. Lived at Mt. Vernon intermittently, 1851 to 1883, etc.
                        Also at 
                            Logansport
                         where he published The Harbinger.
               
               ABELL, THOMAS P. Fr 
                     Ohio, Logansport
                   1881, Whitesville 1883, Muneie 1884,
                        returns to 
                            Ohio
                         1886.
               ADAMS, A. A. Lived at Fortville 1882 and preached at Oaklandon, Pendleton,
                        etc.
               
                  ADAMS, FBANK D. Fr 
                            Illinois
                         1909 to 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Also preached at Oaklandon, Pendleton, and 
                            Anderson
                        . To 
                            Washington
                         (State) 1914.
               
                   ADAMS, HEI.KN F. lie 1909-12.
               ADKINSON T. fr Methodist. Rising Sun 1843 (or 1873).
               AIKIN, J. Stringtown 1856.
               ALDEN, CHARI.ES A. lie 1913. 
                            Logansport
                        . To 
                            Illinois
                        .
               ALLEN, JOHN M. Rising Sun, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , in the 40's.
               ANDREWS, L. M. ord 1879.
               ANDREWS, MRS. M. V. lie 1891, dis 1892.
               AUSTIN, J. J. b in "the east," Muneie 1873-4, d Cal.
                        1894.
               AUSTIN, W. C. Rogers Association.
               AVERILL, J. P. 
                            Mishawaka
                         and northern Indiana 1846-50.
               BABCOCK, JUDAH. Fr 
                            New York
                        . Dis (?) Perrysville. Organized Devon.
               BACON, W. S. Rising Sun 1885, 
                     Ireland, Boston
                  .
               
                   BALLARD, TILLMAN E. Lie 1873, ord at
                        Walton 1875, organized Mier 1875, Walton, Woodville, Brookston, West 
                            Lebanon
                        , Fincastle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Pleasant Valley, Roann, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        . Also itinerant and publisher. Withdraws 1901 to Methodists.
               BANTA DANIEL H. Milroy 1856.
               BAXTER, F. W. 
                            Manchester
                         1856.
               
                   BECKETT, HENRY C. Lie and ord at
                        Pendleton 1896. To 
                            Kentucky
                         1900, returns 1905. Galveston. Walton, Pleasant Valley,
                        Castleton, 
                            Salem
                        .
               BENNETT, B. B. Saluda 1855. 
                            Fairfield
                         1856, major 101st Indiana, retired and lived at 
                            Wabash
                        .
               BIDDLECOME, DANIEL R. Ord in N. Y. 1833. Not a settled pastor, preached
                        most of his life in Indiana and 
                            Ohio
                        . Fincastle, 
                            Ireland
                        , Walton, 
                     Boston, Richmond
                  . Canvasser for colleges. Died 
                            Richmond
                         1885.
               BILLINGS, JAMES. 
                            Lafayette
                         1854-'56, 
                            Dayton
                        .
               BLACKFORD, J. H. Roann.
               BLASDELL, J. N. Rogers Association.
               
               BLAYLOCK, RICHARD. A resident of Greenville, entered ministry 1836,
                        Greenville 1841.
               
                   BBAINARD, CARRIE W. Fr 
                            Ohio
                        , Rome City 1902-'06, to 
                            Illinois
                        .
               BRENNEN, MARGARET A. From N. Y. 
                            Muncie
                         1897-'02. To N. Y.
               BROOKS, W. C. In Indiana intermittently 1847-'83. Lecturer and
                        preacher. 
                            Fairfield
                        , Everton, 
                     Ireland,
                                Indianapolis, Muncie
                  , Rising Sun, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . State superintendent 1879-'81.
               BROWN, Q. R. 
                            Elkhart
                         1841.
               BROWN, HENRY. Resident of Dublin, lie 1881, ord 1888, d 1900. Pleasant
                        Grove, Wilkenson, 
                            Boston
                        , Saluda, Dublin.
               BRUCE, A. W. 
                            Madison
                         1843, Rising Sun, 1844, Pendleton 1847. To 
                            Ohio
                         and east, returns to LaFayette 1867, d 1878.
               BULL, ALPHEUS. Resident of LaFayette, fel 1847. To 
                            San Francisco
                         1860, drowned 1890.
               BURT, JAMES G. B Conn. 1809, came west 1839, 
                            Terre Haute
                         1844, abolitionist, d 1844
               
                   BUSHNELL, CHARLES F. Lie 1894, ord at 
                            Muncie
                         1895. Collamer, Roann, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        . To Penn.
               BYINGTON, M. N. 
                            Manchester
                         1847.
               
                   CALDWELL, JAMES W. Fr 
                            Missouri
                        , Newcastle, Devon, Dublin, Pleasant Hill, 
                            Boston
                        , 1906, to 
                            Florida
                         1910.
               CANIS, EDWARD N. Resident of 
                            Logansport
                        , lie 1895.
               CARLTON, S. P. Rogers Association.
               CARNEY, J. F. Fr 
                     Illinois, Muncie
                   1893, Rogers Association 1900, Martinsville
                        1903, surrenders fellowship 1896.
               
                   CARPENTER, JOHN R. Fr
                                
                     Kansas, Logansport
                   1914, to 
                            Kansas
                         1916.
               CARTMEL, S. Cumberland 1844.
               CASE, ELIGA. 
                            Muncie
                         1863, 
                            Fairfield
                         1867, out of State 1872.
               CASTLETON, JAMES. 1847.
               CASTO, W. Lie by Upper 
                            Wabash
                         Asso. 1842, Lockport 1844.
               CASWELL. 1842.
               CHAFFIN, J. W. Fel fr Methodists 1869. To 
                            Iowa
                        .
               CHAPLIN, JOHN PORTER. R. N. Y. 1826 to 
                            Ohio
                         1833, Indiana 1835, lived here nearly all of life. Died
                        Huntertown 1879, burial at Pierceton.
               CHAPLIN, WILLIAM J. Brother of J. P. C Ord 1849, worked for missionary
                        society, Fort 
                            Wayne
                         1848, 
                            New Haven
                        , Huntertown 1850, Pierceton 1856, No. 
                            Manchester
                        , Mier 1877, published the Christian Pulpit in 
                            Michigan
                         City, Walcottsville 1883, died there 1885, burial Pierceton.
               CHENEY, FRANCES E. Resident of 
                            Richmond
                        , ord at 
                            Muncie
                         1895, leaves State 1897, d 1901.
               CLARK, MARY T. b in 
                            England
                        , educated an Episcopalian, became Baptist, to America 1851, 
                            Cincinnati
                        . Came to Dublin and found herself a Universalist. Also
                        interested in the Friends religion. Began to preach about 1880,
                                
                     Fairfield, Ireland, Richmond
                  . Known as a missionary at-large. Died
                        1891.
               CLARK, WILLIAM S. Fr. Mass. 1844, LaFayette, 
                            Logansport
                        .
               CLEVELAND, JAMES II. b Ky, Lie 1861 Milan, private 83rd Indiana, d 1863.
               CONE, ORELLO. Professor at Buchtel College, 
                            Ohio
                        . Fort 
                            Wayne
                         1885.
               
               COLLINS, ELIGA. A Methodist of 
                            Switzerland
                         county. Preaches for Uni-versalists 1848.
               
                   CONNER, CHARLES C. Ord 1880, to 
                            Ohio
                         1884.
               
                   COOK, JOHN S. Fr 
                            Illinois
                         1906, State superintendent, to 
                            Mich 
                        1908.
               
                   COUDEN, WILLIAM. Fr 
                            Ohio
                         1914, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , to 
                            Washington
                        , D. C, 1916.
               COUNTRYMAN, A. 
                            Terre Haute
                        .
               COBWINE, J. D. H. In charge of Ky. Lib. Inst at Crittenden 1857,
                        Logan-sport 1861, became president Logan. Collegiate Institute, 
                            Fairfield
                        , Rising Sun, 
                            Vevay
                         1865.
               COYLE, WILLIAM. Fel 1872.
               CRANE, C. 
                            Fairfield
                        .
               CRARY, NATHANIEL. Roanu, 1885, 
                            South Bend
                         1868, Pleasant 
                            Lake
                         1872, 
                            Columbia
                         City 1880, retires to Edgerton, O.
               CRAVENS, CHARLES. 
                            Indianapolis
                         1847, Rising Sun.
               CROSLEY, J. L. 
                            Fairfield
                         1866, agent for Smithson college 1875, 
                            Muncie
                         1877.
               CROSLEY, LOTTA D. 
                            Huntington
                         1879.
               
                   CROSLEY, MARION D. 
                            Fairfield
                         1863, Fort 
                            Wayne
                         1875, 
                            New Haven
                        , Hunt-ertown, 
                            Muncie
                        . State superintendent 1874 and 1907. Rogers Association.
               CRUM, GEORGE, b near 
                            Warren
                         1859, lie 1879, to Lombard college 1884, 
                            Logansport
                         1904 for nine years, also at Pleasant Valley and Oaklan-don. D
                        1916.
               CUMMINGS, URIAH. Kesident 
                            Perry
                         county many years, at least 1856 to 1886. Rome, Derby, et al.
               CURRY, HIRAM. Fr 
                            Ohio
                        , formerly Baptist, 
                            Dayton
                         1828, d 1832.
               
                   CURRY, WILLIAM W. 
                            Fairfield
                         1852, Danville 1856, New 
                            Albany
                         1857, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1860, Fincastle 1861, chaplin 53rd Indiana,
                                
                     Madison, Logansport
                   1866, 
                            Terre Haute
                         1872, Secretary of State 1872, superintendent of churches 1873,
                        deputy marshal of Indiana 1879, 
                            Oklahoma
                         1879, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1881 to 
                            Washington
                        , D. C, 1883.
               DAVIS, JOSIAH. 
                            Muncie
                         1861, d near Alamo 1862.
               DAVIS, RUDOLPH B. Resident of Edwards, lie 1895-97.
               DEAN, W. W. Resident of 
                            Louisville
                        , fel fr Methodist 1840.
               DORSON. J. A. Fr N. Y., 
                            Muncie
                         1879, withdraws to Congregationalists 1880.
               DOLBY, D. H. Fel fr Baptists 1874, 
                            Vevay
                         leaves State 1881.
               DRULF.Y, THADDEUS C. Fr 
                            Ohio
                         1882, 
                            Muncie
                         1884, leaves State.
               
                   DUCATE, JOHN S. Fel fr Methodist 1879,
                        Wheatland 1881, fel renewed 1912.
               DUTTON, C. H. Fel 1872. leaves State 1873.
               EATON, T. C. Not a resident, 
                     Logansport, Indianapolis
                  , Park county, all 1856-1859, d
                        1883.
               EDRINGTON, W. L. Lie 1872, Celina and other points in 
                            Perry
                         and 
                            Crawford
                         counties.
               
               ELDBIDGE, JAMES W. b 
                            Ohio
                         1829, to Delphi, studied and practiced law in Winamac,
                                
                     Chicago, Valparaiso, Cincinnati
                  , and in 1866 
                            Logansport
                        . Became Universalist and began to preach here. Lie 1870, ord
                        1871. Roann, 
                            Dayton
                        , Walton. To 
                            Minneapolis
                         1875, d 1881.
               EMMETT, W. Y. 
                            Fairfield
                        .
               EVANS, FBANK. b 
                            Boston
                         1838, in 21st 
                            Ohio
                        , major 18th 
                            Ohio
                        , lie 1870, ord 1872, 
                     Fairfield, Ireland
                  , d 1879.
               
                  EVANS, F. WALDBON. fr 
                            Vermont
                         1907, 
                            Anderson
                         and Pendleton, to 
                            Ohio
                         1908.
               FALL, J. S. b 
                            New Brunswick
                         1828, LaFayette 1874, 
                            Logansport
                        , d 1890.
               
                  FABMEB, WILLIAM W. Resident 
                            Anderson
                        , lie 1916.
               FISHES, J. 1843.
               FISKE, It. President Sniithson 1874.
               FLEMING, ANNA, b West 
                            Lebanon
                        , d 1888.
               FOLLIS, SAMUEL. 
                            Indianapolis
                         1843.
               
                  FOSHER, JESSE B. b Fincastle, lie 1882,
                        ord 1887, Roann, Mier, Pendleton, 
                     Anderson, Richmond
                  , to 
                            Illinois
                         1899.
               FOSTEB, BENJAMIN F. Resident 
                            Madison
                        , ord 1842, Perrysville, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , organized 
                            Indianapolis
                         1853, 
                            Logansport
                         1857, organized Mun-cie 1859, State secretary I. O. O. F. 1860
                        and for many years, State librarian, pastor 
                            Indianapolis
                         1861 and for many years, d 1897.
               FOSTER, JOSEPH G. Prairieton 1843, Fairbanks 1844.
               FBEEMAN, JAMES. From Methodist, 
                            Greensburg
                         1856.
               FULLEN, SAMUEL. Lie upper 
                            Wabash
                         Association 1842, Crawfordsvilie 1844.
               GAGE, GEORGE W. 
                            Fairfield
                         1860, Rising Sun.
               GARDNER, A. R. B N. Y. 1808, commenced preaching in Indiana 1834, to Ill.
                        1835, second Universalist minister in that State.
               GARDNER, C. W. Ord Rogers Association 1848.
               GAYLORD, N. M. Fel 1842, Rising Sun.
               GIBB, S. F. Fr 
                            Ohio
                         1869, Pierceton, Huntertown, returns to 
                            Ohio
                        .
               GIBBS, W. L. Rogers Association.
               GIBSON, C. K. Fr Congregationalist of Mich. 1879, LaFayette 1S82, North
                        Vernon and Patriot 1882.
               GIBSON, S. G. (or S. J.?) 
                            Terre Haute
                         1856.
               GIFFORD, H. 
                            Fairfield
                         1841, 
                            Muncie
                         1860.
               GILMAN, J. B. B N. Y. 1822, to 
                            Mich 
                        1854, chaplin in army, connected with Lombard and Sniithson
                        Colleges, and with Northwestern Conference, State superintendent in Indiana
                        1876, dies 1881.
               
                   GLEASON, W. W. Resident Mt. Carmel, lie
                        and ord 1891, 
                            Muncie
                         1892. leaves State 1893.
               GORMAN, THOMAS. 
                            Logansport
                         1859.
               GRANDY, I. B. Mt. Carmel 1872, 
                            Aurora
                         1881, 
                            Logansport
                         1885, Oaklan-don, LaFayette, Rising Sun, Dublin, 
                            Ireland
                        , Brookston 1889, charges preferred 1890, suspended by Indiana
                        Convention but reinstated by General Convention, 
                            Fairfield
                         1891, Whitesville 1895, West 
                            Lebanon
                         1899, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1902, d 1906.
               
               GROVES, HENRY. Resident of Rome as early as 1856 and balance of life, d
                        1899.
               
                   GUTHRIE, THOMAS SANDOR. B 
                            Ohio
                        , preached there and Indiana most of life. Ord 1872, La 
                            Fayette
                         1872, 
                            Muncie
                         and Devon 1874 for several years, 
                            Dayton
                         1886, 
                            Logansport
                         1894, Pleasant Valley 1901.
               GWALTNEY, S. Lie 1872, 
                            Rockport
                        , Rome.
               
                   HAFFNER, J. EDWARD. Resident 
                            Muncie
                        , lie 1903, ord 1904, 
                            Anderson
                        , Pendleton, et al., withdraws 1909.
               HARRISON, T. J. 
                            Nebraska
                         1856.
               HARVEY, AYLMER O. Resident Klondyke, lie 1901-02.
               HASKELL, J. Fr 
                            Vermont
                        , Eugene 1840.
               HATHAWAY, P. Ft. 
                            Wayne
                         1850, LaFayette 1851, 
                            Logansport
                         1856.
               HAYWOOD, HARRY L. Lie 1912, ord 1913, 
                            Richmond
                        , to 
                            Iowa
                        .
               HEATON. 
                            Dayton
                        .
               HENLEY, J. W. Rogers Association 1878.
               
                   HEWIT, JOHN H. Resident Devon, lie
                        1885-90, 93-96.
               HEWSON, THOMAS. Resident 
                            Jefferson
                         county, fel 1840, fr Methodists itinerant for Laughery
                        Association 1843, 
                            Madison
                         1844.
               HEYWOOD, JOHN H. 
                            Jeffersonville
                         40 years.
               HIBBARD, S. S. 
                            Logansport
                         1871.
               HICKS, E. P. Vernon 1843.
               HICKS, F. E. Rising Sun.
               HICKS, JOSHUA. Fel 1843, Patriot.
               HILSTREN, CHARLES W. Lie and ord 1907-08. Milan, Saluda, 
                            Manchester
                        ,
               Dublin. To 
                            Ohio
                         1911, d 1914.
               HINDS, J. M. Fel fr Baptists at 
                     Middletown, Vigo
                   county, 1884.
               
                   HOUGHTON, JAMES. Resident Collamer, lie
                        1892, ord 1894. Fincastle, Cunot, Huntertown, Cromwell, Collamer, Brookston,
                        North 
                            Manchester
                        . To 
                            Kansas
                         1911.
               HUDSON, JAMES. Resident of Collamer, lie 1895.
               JACOBS, ELMER D. Fr N. Y. 1876, to Mich. 1887.
               JACOBS, MARION WARREN. Resident 
                            Kokomo
                        , fel fr Christian Congregation 1891, Whitesville, dis 1892.
               JEWELL, HENRY. Fr New 
                     England,
                                Terre Haute
                   1865.
               JOHN, R. N. Ord 1874, 
                     Fairfield, Ireland
                  , Dublin 1881, State superintendent 1882-91, 
                            Manchester
                        , Mier, leaves State 1894.
               JOHNSON, B. 
                            Madison
                         1841.
               JOHNSON, J. L. Resident of Patriot, temporarily a Universalist.
               JOLLY. Fr Methodists.
               JONES, MRS. BELLE (colored). Resident 
                            Brazil
                        , lie 1897. JONES, LEON P. Fr
                                
                     Kansas, Richmond
                   1907, Rogers
                        Association 1911, to 
                            Ontario
                         1916.
               
                   JONES, MARTHA G. Wife of Leon P., served
                        as joint-pastor with him.
               JONES, W. M. Rogers Association.
               KALER, M. B. Ord 1841, Rogers Association.
               
                   KEIRN, GIDEON I. Fr N. Y. 1881, Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        , to 
                            Ohio
                         1883, 
                            Muncie
                         1903, now in 
                            Japan
                        .
               
               KELSO, ISAAC. Fel fr Methodists 1843, renounces Universalism 1846.
               KENDALL, FAUL. President Sniithson college.
               KESSLER, J. J. P. Lie 1895.
               KIDDEK. 
                            Cass
                         county, 1855.
               KIDWELL, JONATHAN. B Ky. 1779, Methodist, then Christian, became
                        Uni-versalist 1804, Philomath, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , began editorial work about 1825, publisher, author, religious
                        liberal, d 1849.
               KNAPP, E. M. B. N. Y. 1809, fel 1843, 
                            Cambridge
                         1843, 
                            Terre Haute
                         1848, d 1851.
               
                   LAING, ALFRED H. Resident Pierceton, lie
                        1869, to 
                            Illinois
                        .
               LATHE, F. T. Fr Ky. 1892, returned 1893, d 1897.
               LAURIE, A. G. Fel 1842.
               LE CLERC, PBUDY. Ord 1870, Fincastle, 
                     Aurora, Madison
                  , Mt. Carmel, married Rev. C. L. Haskell
                        1878, d 1879.
               LEIGHTON, A. A. Andersonville 1806.
               LEMON. Fel 1844, Bono 1844, 
                            Bloomington
                         1847.
               
                   LEWELLEN, HENRY. Fr. 
                            Iowa
                         1894, Dublin, Ft. 
                            Wayne
                         1902.
               LEWELLEN, MRS. EMMA. Lie 1894-96.
               LEWIS, CALVIN. Derby and other points 1856-72.
               LINCK, W. B. 
                            Fairfield
                         1853-5.
               LINNELL, W. B. 
                            Muncie
                         1866.
               LINON, G. C. Putnamville 1848.
               
                   LINTON, MAURICE G. Resident Woodville,
                        lie 1893, to 
                            Ohio
                        , Fincastle, Cunot, Brookston 1908, to 
                            Illinois
                         1912.
               LONGLEY, ABNER H. B Ky. 1796, to 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                   1810, itinerant Christian, became Universalist
                        thru Kidwell, 
                            Lebanon
                         1832, preached, county surveyor, several sessions in
                        legislature, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1838, returns to 
                            Lebanon
                        , to 
                            Kansas
                         1866, d 1879.
               LONGLEY, ELIAS. Son of above. Preaches 1848.
               LUSTEB, THOMAS B. Resident of Whitesville, lie 1887, ord 1889, LaFayette
                        1889.
               MANFORD, ERASMUS. B Mass., to 
                            Cincinnati
                        , first of many itinerant journeys thru Indiana 1837, LaFayette
                        1841, 
                            Terre Haute
                         1843, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1846, 
                            Cincinnati
                         1848, 
                            St. Louis
                         1850, 
                            Chicago
                         1864 till death. Published Christian Teacher,
                            Western Olive Branch, Golden Era, and Manford's Magazine. During all this time he visited
                        Indiana frequently.
               MANN, E. B. Early resident of 
                            Floyd
                         county, Ohio Valley circuit from
                        Leavenworth 1837, present at organization of 
                            Illinois
                         Convention 1837.
               MARBLE, H. S. 
                            Portland
                         and Perrysville 1840, ord Perrysville 1841.
               MARING, T. E. Lie 1873, 
                            Rockville
                        , d 1874.
               
                   MASON, EDWARD G. Fr 
                            Ohio
                         3912, 
                            Muncie
                        .
               MARTHING, JOHN. 
                            Mishawaka
                         1856.
               MCCLURE, GEORGE. Perrysville.
               MCCORD, J. W. Fr 
                     Kentucky, Fairfield
                   1894, leaves State 1897.
               MCCUNE, G. C. Knightstown 1841, Dublin.
               MCDONALD, EDNA. 
                            Fairfield
                         1897.
               
               MCLEAN, J. P. Mt. Carniel 1886, Dublin.
               MERRELL, H. A. 
                            Aurora
                         1878, LaFayette 1880, 
                            Fairfield
                         1881, 
                            Ireland
                        , d 1884.
               MERBIFIELD, JACOB. Ord 1856 by 
                            Elkhart
                         Association, 
                     Mishawaka, New
                        Haven
                  , Huntertown, et al.
               MILES. 1844.
               MILLEB, H. F. Saluda 1860, 
                            Boston
                        , Dublin, State missionary 1863, agent North Western Conference.
               MITCHELL, M. G. State missionary 1865, organized 
                            Ireland
                        , Devon 1868, d 1878.
               MONROE. Ord 1845.
               MOORE, ELIHU. Union City 1873, d 1889.
               MOOBE, W. Cumberland 1844.
               MORSE, GEO. W. Rogers Association.
               MUNSON, H. C. Educated at Canton, N. Y., by Missionary Society.
               OSMOND, I. T. Professor at Suiithson, lie 1873.
               OYLER, S. P. Fel Upper 
                            Wabash
                         Association 1844, 
                            Jefferson
                        , Rising Sun, Vernon, became a lawyer at 
                            Franklin
                        .
               
                   PATRICK, D. A. Lie 1894, ord 1890,
                        resident of Brookston, Pleasant Valley, Galveston, 
                     Salem, Logansport
                  , withdraws 1906.
               
                  PEABDON, JAMES II. Ord 1902, 
                            Muncie
                        , leaves State 1903.
               
                   PETTY, CHARLES E. Fr 
                     Ohio, Logansport
                   1916, State superintendent.
               PINGREE, ENOCH M. B N. H., 1817, 
                            Jeffersonville
                         1847, d 1849.
               POPE, MATTHEW L. Fr Ky. 1891, originally a Baptist, Fineastle, Cunot,
                        Pleasant Valley, 
                            Salem
                        , Collamer, 
                            Boston
                        , d 1908.
               PRICE, J. C. B X. Y., taught Crbana and there became Universalist, fel
                        1800. 
                            Terre Haute
                        , sargent ]4th Indiana, d 1802.
               QUACKENBUSH, N. R. Fr Mich. 1885, 
                            Madison
                        , Rising Sun.
               RAYHOUSER, N. A. Resident Ft. 
                     Wayne, South
                        Bend
                   1856, Huntertown.
               RAYON, T. FRANCIS. Resident 
                            Indianapolis
                        , lie 1895, soon withdraws.
               ROBERTS, H. Rising Sun.
               ROBEY, CURTIS. Fel 1832.
               
                   ROBINSON, ELMO A. Fr N. Y. 1914. 
                            Anderson
                        , Pendleton.
               
                   ROBINSON, OLGA K. Lie 1915.
               ROBINSON, JOSIAS. Physician of Fillmore, lie 1881-3.
               ROSE, DANIEL. D 1871.
               
                   Ross, EMORY I'. Resident 
                            Manchester
                        , lie 1893-6.
               
                  SAGE, NATHANIEL S. Fr 
                     Ohio, Logansport
                   1868, Walton, to 
                            Ohio
                         1869, returns 
                            Logansport
                         1874, to 
                            Illinois
                         1876.
               ST. JOHN. DANIEL. Resident 
                            Franklin County
                         earlier than 1838, itinerant, often in civil office, d 1863.
               SAXTON, N. A. Fr Mich. Bluffton 1S85, also Huntertown, Collamer, et al.
                        Leaves State 1889, d 1890.
               SHEPHERD. O. P. Resident Everton, lie 1894.
               SIMPLE. 1845.
               SIMPSON. J. M. Lie 1871, Coon's Creek.
               SLAUGHTER, W. W. Fr Ill., LaFayette 1898, Brookston, d 1901.
               
               SMITH, ISRAEL C. Fel 1859 Roger's Association, 
                            Center
                         Square 1872, Ve-vay 1881.
               SMITH, ROBEBT. New Trenton 1840, 
                            Harrison
                         1841, itinerant, withdraws to Christians 1842.
               
                   SNYDER, MRS. CATHERINE N. Resident 
                            Indianapolis
                        , lie 1914.
               SOMERS, H. O. Fr 
                     Iowa,
                                Logansport
                   1892, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1894, dis 1895.
               SPAULDING, W. Roger's Association.
               
                  SPEES, NOAH M. Resident Oaklandon, lie
                        1904-9.
               SPENCER, L. J. Bluffton 1883, to 
                            Missouri
                         1887.
               SPOONER. 
                            New Haven
                        , Huntertown.
               STACY, G. Fel 1844, Bono.
               STEINMETZ. LaFayette.
               STEWART, G. H. (?) Fel 1872, Kendalville, Huntertown, withdraws 1873.
               STONEMETTS, T. O. Resident 
                            Cincinnati
                        , Rome 1842.
               
                   STONER, SARAH L. B 
                            Richmond
                         1852, 
                            Fairfield
                         1897, 
                            Anderson
                         1899, to 
                            Ohio
                        .
               STONER, JAMES A. B Peru 1849, Pendleton 1899, to 
                            Ohio
                        .
               STRICK, S. M. Fel 1870, Pendleton, leaves State 1872.
               STROUP, JAMES. D 1862.
               TABOR, M. WILLIAMS. Fr N. Y. 1888, charges preferred 1890, leaves State.
               TALCOTT, W. C. 
                            Michigan
                         City 1844.
               TATE, DAVID. Early resident 
                            Perry
                         county, Rome 1844, Tobinsport 1886, 23 children.
               
                   TAYLOR, HENRY B. 
                            Muncie
                         1909, to Mass. 1912.
               TIBBETTS, A, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1886.
               TRAUX, H. E. Physician of 
                            Logansport
                        , formerly Methodist, He 1895, LaFayette, dis 1896.
               TBAUX, MRS. II. E. Lie 1895, withdraws.
               TUCKER, WILLIAM. Bluffton 1880, 
                            Ireland
                        , Roann.
               TURNER, DANIEL. 
                            Terre Haute
                         1S45.
               UPSON, JOSIAH. Native of New 
                            England
                        , Presbyterian, becomes Universal ist 1848.
               VATER, THOMAS J. Resident 
                            Indianapolis
                        , contractor and mason, but preached many years, withdraws 1886.
               VATER, T. J. Jr. Lie 1896-1900.
               VAUGHN, N. 
                            Perry
                         and 
                            Crawford
                         counties 1872, Cannelton 1883.
               VILOTT, JAMES. Laurel 1856.
               VINES, D. Resident 
                            Frankfort
                        , lie 1842, 
                            Crawfordsville
                         1844, Rainesville 1856.
               
                   VOSSEMA, HENDRICK. Fr 
                     Maine, Logansport
                   1901, leaves 1903.
               WAIT, C. F. Fel 1843, 
                            Fairfield
                         1852.
               
                   WALTER, PEARL. Resident Peru, lie
                        1899-1904, married D. A. Patrick.
               WESTFALL, I. M. Resident Thorntown, Methodist, fel Upper 
                            Wabash
                         Association 1844, ord 1845, 
                            Franklin
                        , Martinsville, 
                            Logansport
                         1857, became a physician 1880, d Minn. 1888.
               
                   WILGUS, ALBERT. Physician, lie 1874, ord
                        1888, leaves State 1904.
               WILLIAMS, WILLIAM R. Resident Warrington, lie 1891.
               
               WOOD, J. Patriot 1841.
               WOODBURY, C. E. 
                            Indianapolis
                         I860.
               WBIOHT, GEORGE. Resident Fillmore, Methodist minister and lawyer, lie
                        1879-81, writer.
               WYLEY. Ord 1845, Hartsville.
               YATES, F. M. Fr 
                            Ohio
                         1888, returns next year.
               TEAQAN, H. G. Lie 1885-6.
            
            CONCLUSION
            
            Two opposing and pertinent questions confront the student. Why, after the
                    expenditure of so much energy, is the Universalist Church so weak in Indiana?
                    Why, with so many mistakes and failures, does it yet remain so strong?
            There are several factors to account for the present weakness. Every truth may be
                    abused; the acceptance of the negative elements of Universalism without a
                    grasping of its affirmations produced "anti-hellians," who
                    were often against every policy of denominational expansion and in favor of
                    nothing. Universalists have usually emphasized the intellectual, rather than the
                    emotional, element in religion; denominations which have done this have not
                    flourished in Indiana. Church membership as an essential to future individual
                    salvation was rejected; church membership as an opportunity to work for present
                    social salvation was an ideal rarely visioned. Hence the most prominent
                    Universalists were often not members of their own organization, and their
                    children and grandchildren joined other churches. Add to these causes extreme
                    individualism, occasional unwise leadership and lack of vision, a theology
                    sometimes more liberal than the pocketbook, the general decline of the rural
                    church, and the failure of the expectations of the pioneers is easily explained.
            The reasons for the permanence of organized Universalism are more difficult to
                    specify. But on the one hand there were and are the small but active minority of
                    its adherents, who have combined the logical and emotional elements in such
                    fashion as to obtain a positive religion, and who have become working church
                    members, loyal in the use of time, money, and strength. On the other hand it is
                    due to the presence, among the unchurched multitudes of the State, of those to
                    whom neither Roman Catholicism nor orthodox 
                    Protestantism appeals, and who yet desire to support some form of Christian
                    teaching.
            Today the Universalist Church of Indiana is comparatively small in number and
                    insignificant in activity. In many communities its teachings are unknown. But in
                    places where it still exists, or has existed until recent years, the religious
                    situation has been influenced by it. And it is probably true that the
                    theological trend of the entire State has had its course permanently altered by
                    the "Church of the Beautiful Faith."
            BIBLIOGRAPHY
            
            A few Universalist books and magazines were on the shelves of the Indiana State
                    Library in the fall of 1915. Since that time, in response to a request in The Universalist Leader, many additions have been received and
                    are now being catalogued. The author has also found valuable material at the
                    public library of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , and in the private libraries of Rev. Sara L. Stoner and Rev. T. E.
                    Ballard.
            The following books are among those which have been consulted:
            
               
                  Modern History of Universalism, Thomas Whittemore, 
                            Boston
                        , 1860.
               
                  Universalism in America, Richard Eddy, 2 vols., 
                            Boston
                         1886. (Contains valuable bibliography.)
               Essay on Before and After Winchester, J. A. Stoner, in
                            The Winchester Centennial, 
                            Boston
                        , 1903.
               
                  A Series of Strictures, Jonathan Kidwell, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1830.
               
                  Memoranda of the Experiences, Labors and Travels of a
                            Universalist Preacher, George Rogers, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1845.
               
                  Life and Writings of Rev. Enoch M. Pingree, 
                            Henry
                         Jewell, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1850.
               
                  Twenty-five Years in the West, Erasmus Manford, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1875.
               
                  Life and Works of Rev. Thomas S. Guthrie, D. D., written
                        by himself, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1912.
               
                  An Oral Debate (at 
                            Milton
                        ), Erasmus Manford  Benjamin 
                     Franklin, Indianapolis
                  , 1848.
               
                  Vision of Faith, I. D. Williamson, 
                            Madison
                        , 1852.
               
                  The Golden Age to Come, J. J. Austin, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1853.
               
                  Theological Discussion on Universalism and Endless
                        Punishment, B. F. Foster  J. H. Lozier, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1867.
               
                  The Destiny of Man, S. P. Carlton  W. D.
                        Moore, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1870.
               
               The county histories listed in Bulletin of Indiana State Library,
                        September, 1915.
               Minutes of the Universalist Convention of Indiana, 1848 to date, one year
                        missing.
               Minutes of the Rogers Association; partial minutes of various other
                        organizations.
               Partial files of the following periodicals were consulted. More complete
                        information about these and others may be found in volume 2 of
                        Eddy's history.
               
                        Evangelical Magazine and, Gospel Advocate; The Star in the
                            West, The Sentinel and Star, The Star and Covenant; Manford's
                            Magazine; Western Universalist; Herald of Truth; The Philomath
                            Encyclopedia; The Convention Reporter; Healing Leaves; The Universalist.
                            The Universalist Leader; The Universalist Register.
                    
            
            It is desired to further augment the collection in the Indiana State Library.
                    Those having material to donate are requested to write the author or the
                    library.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Andrew 
                            Johnson
                        , Military Governor of 
                            Tennessee
                        . By CLIFTON R. HALL, Assistant Professor of History and
                    Politics in 
                        Princeton
                     University. 
                        Princeton
                     Press, 1916, pp. iv 234, $1.50.
            THIS volume deals, as its title indicates, with the career of
                    Andrew 
                        Johnson
                     in 
                        Tennessee
                     during the years 1862-1865. It contains a careful and detailed
                    history of the civil and political life of that State during the Civil War. The
                    history contained in the volume is of more than State and local interest,
                    because it deals with the secession and restoration of a State that was
                    essentially unionist in its antecedents and constituency, as well as with one of
                    the most remarkable men produced in that era of bitter and strenuous strife. The
                    unionism of Andrew 
                        Johnson
                     during the Civil War made him President of the 
                        United States
                    . He did not "go with his State" when 
                        Tennessee
                     seceded. He acknowledged a higher allegiance and remained in the 
                        United States
                     Senate to represent his State together with Parson Brownlow, Horace
                    May-nard, T. A. R. Nelson and others. He stood up stoutly and put up a manly
                    fight for the Union cause in East 
                        Tennessee
                    . He spent a life of strenuous political conflict but his
                    "eyes never beheld the man who inspired his heart with fear."
            His fighting character and career, and especially his attachment to the Union
                    under adverse circumstances led President 
                        Lincoln
                     to name 
                        Johnson
                     as military governor of 
                        Tennessee
                    , during the second year of the war. His experience in that office
                    forced him to deal with the problems of military control and the reconstruction
                    of his State. This experience gave 
                        Johnson
                     some preparation for the problems with which he afterwards had to
                    deal as President. So much for the historical importance of the man and his work
                    with which this volume deals.
            
               
                        Johnson
                    's life had been spent in the Union section of 
                        Tennessee
                     where the people voted five to one against a convention  to consider secession. After Sumter the
                    "issue of coercion" brought a change and the Union men of East 
                        Tennessee
                     were overcome by the irresistible tide for secession after John
                    Bell and other Whig and Constitutional leaders had given way. However, in spite
                    of pressure and the executive influence of Governor Harris, East 
                        Tennessee
                     remained loyal to the Union, voting two to one against secession
                    and a compact with the Confederacy. 
                        Johnson
                     was one of "the little batch of disaffected traitors who
                    hovered around his home" in Greenville, as the secession sheet, The Memphis Appeal, said.
            This volume under review contains a good brief sketch of 
                        Johnson
                    's political career, from his election as alderman of
                    Greenville in 1828 to his election as governor of 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        United States
                     senator in 1853 and 1857. There is an excellent characterization of
                    the man as a man of brilliant incisive mind, of insatiable ambition, but
                    "breadth of view he never attained."
            
               
                        Johnson
                     was a States rights Democrat who voted for Breckenridge in 1860 as
                    the best way to save the Democratic party from disruption, in the hope that the
                    party might be saved as an organ for saving the Union. Later he thought the
                    Southern Democrats assumed the role of destroyer and he was ready to fight them
                    to the bitter end. He held that the Union could not coerce a State, but also
                    that the compact of Union was perpetual and that no State could be released from
                    its obligations without the consent of all. The State consisted of its loyal
                    citizens, one or many, and the 
                        United States
                     should guarantee to each State a republican form of government. In
                    becoming governor in 1862 
                        Johnson
                     announced his platform to be that of the famous Crittenden
                    Resolution, to protect and defend the constitution and the law and to suppress
                    insurrection. He sought to recall to the people the better days under the
                    federal bond.
            The volume contains a detailed and careful discussion of the defense of 
                        Nashville
                    ; of military and political reverses in 1863; of the early
                    reorganization of the State; of the presidential campaign of 1864, and of the
                    final rehabilitation of 
                        Tennessee
                    . The political conflicts for the control of the State between the
                    radicals and conservatives are described. In  these conflicts under 
                        Johnson
                    's leadership the Union element of 
                        Tennessee
                     succeeded in reorganizing the civil government of the State and in
                    bringing it into the old relation to the national government. Confederate
                    leaders were disfranchised by the oath of allegiance. The peace Democrats
                    contested the State with the "unconditional Unionist" in 1864,
                    and their leaders protested in 
                        Washington
                     against the intolerant policy of 
                        Johnson
                    's party in excluding by military interference so many of
                    their opponents from participating in the voting. 
                        Johnson
                    , while he was still military governor, supported 
                        Lincoln
                    's policy of reconstruction. As the volume opens with a
                    consideration of 
                        Johnson
                    's character and public career, so it closes with further
                    treatment of the personal side of this notable southern leader. He had to
                    withstand vituperation and insult, but he himself was vituperative and
                    insulting. Like begets like, and perhaps in no other period of American history
                    did the coarse personal habits and disposition of a single man have so bad an
                    effect on his country's public life as under the era of Andrew 
                        Johnson
                    . Professor Hall's book is a valuable contribution to Civil
                    War history.
         
         
            
               Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year
                        1914. Vol. 1, pp. 504. 
                        Washington
                    .
            THIS ancient volume contains, besides the official proceedings
                    of the society, fourteen historical papers. The last four deal with American
                    history. 
                        Henry
                     B. Learned has a fourteen-page article on Cabinet Meetings Under
                    Polk; St. George L. Sioussat, a sixteen-page article on 
                        Tennessee
                     and National Parties 1850, 1860; P. Orman Ray, a twenty-two-page
                    article on the Genesis of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act; and Robert G. Cleland, a ten-page article on Asiatic Trade and
                    the American Occupation of the Pacific Coast. Of these the ones by Professor
                    Sioussat and Dr. Ray have interest for Indiana readers. Under the head
                    "proceedings of the Eleventh Annual Conference of Historical
                    Societies" is a paper by Dr. James A. Wood-burn on Research in State
                    History at State Universities. In this paper he discusses the field for such
                    work, its value as material for seminary training in history and its general
                    value to the State. The article was published in the March, 1915, number of this
                        MAGAZINE.
         
         
         
            
               The Mexican War Diary of George B. McClellan. Edited by
                    WILLIAM STARR MYERS, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and Politics, 
                        Princeton
                     University. 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1917; pp. 97. $1.00 net.
            THIS little volume is a by-product of the author's
                    work of the last four or five years on the biography of General McCleUan. The
                    writer of the Diary graduated from West Point in 1846, just in
                    time to go to the front as a second lieutenant of engineers. He left school
                    September 24, 1846, and the Diary ends abruptly after the
                    Battle of Cerro Gordo, although the author continued on to the capture of 
                        Mexico
                     and remained there for some time after the war closed. He landed in
                    1846 at Brazos and marched down the Mexican coast almost to 
                        Vera Cruz
                    . The Diary in part seems to have been written
                    from day to day and in part seems to have been composed some time, though never
                    very long, after the events described happened. His observations about, the
                    volunteers and the general conduct of the war are about what one would expect
                    from a young man just from the training school. A reader will be tempted to say
                    he can see in the general's comments the beginning of the difficulty
                    which prevented his success in the Civil War. A comparison of this with 
                  
                            Grant
                        's Memoirs will readily show the difference
                    between the two men. The author has, by means of footnotes, made the Diary intelligible, so that aside from its historical value,
                    the volume will furnish an evening's genuine pleasure to a red-blooded
                    reader.
         
         
            
               Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. VI, No. 1.
                        Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Meeting of the Ohio
                        Valley Historical Association. Edited by HARLOW LlND-LEY. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1916. pp. 269. 50c.
            THE Association held its tenth meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     October 4 and 5, 1916. Nine papers were read besides the welcome
                    address by Daniel W. Howe, president of the Indiana Historical Society, and the
                    response by the president, Harlow Lindley. The papers were Speculation in the
                    Thirties, by Prof. R. C. McGrane; The New Purchase, by Prof. James A. Woodburn;
                    A Lost Opportunity, Internal Improvements, by  W. C. Ford; 
                        Kentucky
                    's Contribution to Indiana, by Prof. James R. Robertson;
                    Organizing a State, by Logan Esarey; Early Railroad Building in Indiana, by
                    Ralph Blank (only a small part of this is printed) ; Civil War Politics in
                    Indiana, by Charles Kettleborough; Personal Genesis of the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine, by ex-Governor William A. McCorkle; and a Hoosier
                    Domesday, by Prof. Frederick L. Paxton.
         
         
            THROUGH the courtesy of Mrs. Benjamin D. Walcott, 1455 North 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , vice regent of the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of
                    the Union, the SURVEY has received the Annual Report of that
                    association. This is a nation-wide organization to look after and improve Mt.
                    Vernon. The purpose is to restore the grounds to the condition they were in
                    about 1790 and maintain them as nearly in that condition as possible. There were
                    last year 127,203 visitors to the grounds.
            THE university library recently received from one of its
                    alumni a copy of Prof. Richard 
                        Owen
                    's farewell address to Indiana University. The title of the
                    address is "Happiness and Home, Temporal and Eternal", and it
                    was delivered at the college chapel May 11, 1879. An audience could hardly be
                    held together to listen to such an address now, but nothing so clearly marks the
                    difference between college life then and now, and between the college students
                    then and now as these old addresses. The librarian is always very glad to
                    receive such papers.
         
         
            
               Biennial Report of the Secretary of State for the Term Ending
                        September 30, 1916. By HOMER L. COOK, Secretary of State. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE first section of this report deals with the financial
                    business transacted by the department. The receipts for the two years total
                    $815,411.76. This money was collected from taxes on motor vehicles,
                    dealers' licenses, chauffeurs' licenses, taxes on foreign and
                    domestic corporations and the sale of Supreme Court Reports.
                    The receipts are in the form of fees. There follow in the report lists of the
                    State officers, their  terms, salaries,
                    State departmental registers, members of boards and commissions and State
                    employees generally. A historical register gives lists of the principal State
                    officers since 1816; the different congressional apportionments since 1821 and
                    the congressmen from each district; the electoral vote since 1820; counties,
                    county seats and populations, governor's proclamations; judicial and
                    county officers; abstract of the votes at the November election, 1916; and a
                    list of the members of the General Assembly for 1916. The volume of 240 pages
                    contains a vast amount of information concerning the official organization and
                    work of the State government.
         
         
            
               Fortieth Annual Report of the Department of Geology and Natural
                        Resources of Indiana, 1915. By EDWARD BARRETT, State Geologist. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            AFTER a brief general introduction by the State geologist
                    there follow a History of Indiana During the Glacial Period, by Harry W. Wood;
                    Soil Surveys of 
                        Wells
                     County, of 
                        Grant
                     County, of 
                        White
                     County, of 
                        Starke
                     County, and of 
                        Fountain
                     County; geological surveys of 
                        Dearborn
                     County, of 
                        Jefferson
                     County, and of 
                        Greene
                     County; and a chapter on Oil and Gas. The department either alone
                    or in cooperation with the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture has made soil surveys of all but
                    seventeen counties of the State. Each article is written by a specialist who
                    acted as field assistant to the geologist, and is illustrated by a large scale
                    map. The volume has 279 pages and a good index.
         
         
            
               Report of the Proceedings of the Indiana Horticultural Society
                        for the Year 1915. By M. W. RICHARDS, Secretary. pp. 504. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            THE society held its fifty-fifth annual meeting in Tomlinson
                    Hall at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , November 8-12, 1915. The report contains the proceedings of this
                    meeting. The greatest event of the year for this society, and one of the events
                    of State-wide interest each year is the apple show, of which a full account is
                    given in the volume. However, the chief popular value of the volume is in the
                    two score or more of papers prepared by expert fruit growers and treating of almost every phase of
                    the subject. They make of the report a scientific treatise on Horticulture for
                    Indiana. There were 65 exhibitors at the apple show; about 1,500 listed apple
                    growers in the State (Names and addresses given in the Report) ; 132 nurseries;
                    and upward of 400 members of the society.
         
         
            
               Annual Report of the Indiana State Prison for the Year Ending
                        September 30, 1916. By EDWARD J. FOGARTY, Warden, pp. 50. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE report is entirely statistical. The number of convicts
                    October 1, 1915, was 1,332; the number at the close of the year, September 30,
                    1916, was 1,264, an average population of 1,302. The per capita cost for meals
                    was about 12 cents per day, the annual per capita expense was $136.
                    There were received during the year 367, or one each day. Of these 209 were
                    between the ages of 30 and 40 (most younger criminals go to the Reformatory) ;
                    168 were native Hoosiers, 46 from 
                        Kentucky
                    , 17 from 
                        Illinois
                    , 20 from 
                        Ohio
                     and the others from the four corners of the world; 43 were
                    Catholics, 37 Baptist, 33 Methodists, 23 Christians, with 9 other denominations
                    represented. One-half or 190 belonged to no church; 50 were illiterate, 9 had
                    high school education and 7 were college men. Tables show the numbers from each
                    county, character of crime, mental condition, health records and number of
                    inmates for each year since 1860, product of the binder twine factory, library,
                    expense and a great many other items.
         
         
            
               Annual Report of the Indiana Reformatory at 
                            Jeffersonville
                         for the Year Ending September 15, 1915. By Dr. DAVID C.
                    PEYTON, General Superintendent. Printed on the Reformatory Press, pp. 57.
            THE Reformatory, under the direction of Dr. Peyton, has become
                    an institution for the study of crime and the reform of criminals. Besides Dr.
                    Peyton, such specialists as R. B. von Klein Smid, F. C. Paschal, and M. L.
                    Beanblossom have been employed to make a scientific study of the inmates from a
                    psychological and pathological standpoint. The superintendent has instituted
                    farm work, military drill, a school systern,  a library and vocational work of all kinds. There were committed during the
                    year 623 prisoners; total number of inmates September 30,1915, was 1,275. Tables
                    are given showing nativity of prisoners, counties sent from, use of liquor and
                    tobacco, character of crime and a great many other interesting facts. Besides
                    the formal Annual Report there have been issued from the
                    Reformatory Press a number of pamphlets of a scientific character setting forth
                    the methods of study and conclusions reached in the research work.
            
               Psychopathology and Crime, an address delivered by Dr. David C.
                    Peyton at the meeting of the American Prison Association at Oakland, 
                        California
                    , October 9, 1915. Several interesting cases of criminality in this
                    State are described in this address.
            
               Principles of Prison Reform, a paper read by Dr. David C.
                    Peyton before the Economics Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 8, 1915.
            
               The Differential Diagnosis of Crime, an address by Dr. David C.
                    Peyton before the American Prison Association at 
                        Baltimore
                     November 13, 1912.
            
               Material of Clinical Research in the Field of Criminology, a
                    paper read to the American Prison Association at 
                        St. Paul
                    , October, 1914.
            
               An Address, by Dr. David C. Peyton on the occasion of the
                    announcement of the Installation of a Psychological Laboratory for the
                    Scientific Study of Criminals, 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , 1912.
            
               Crime as an Expression of Feeble-Mindedness, an address by Dr.
                    D. C. Peyton to the Indiana State Medical Association at West Baden, September
                    25, 1913.
            
               Mental Examination of Two Thousand Delinquent Boys and Young
                    Men, by M. L. Beanblossom, 1916, gives the results of three and one-half
                    years study in the Reformatory along the lines indicated, (pp. 23.)
            
               Second Report, Department of Research, by 
                        Franklin
                     G. Paschal, Director of Research, gives the results of the research
                    work from August, 1912, to August, 1916. A series of tables exhibit the facts
                    learned from the history of the prisoners and ascertained from the clinical
                    investigations.
            
            These pamphlets indicate the important work going on in this line at the
                    Reformatory. At least all school, church, police, and court officials should
                    read them.
         
         
            
               Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the Board of State Charities for
                        the Year Ending September 30, 1916. By AMOS W. BUTLER, Secretary, pp.
                    222. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE Board of State Charities is composed of six members and
                    the secretary, all residing in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The work of the board is largely supervisory, having in some
                    degree supervision over nineteen State institutions, outdoor poor relief by
                    township trustees, all charity dispensing organizations of a private nature,
                    compulsory school attendance, county jails, poor houses, and licensing maternity
                    hospitals, boarding houses for infants, boarding homes for infants, and placing
                    agencies. The first part of the report gives a brief but very interesting and
                    valuable history of the growth of State Charities. At the close of the year 1841
                    the State had one charitable institution with 134 inmates, at the close of 1916
                    it has nineteen, with 13,218 inmates at an annual cost, including local and
                    county charities, of $5,953,539.19. Of this expense,
                    $3,095,665 went to State institutions, $856,609 to county
                    poor houses, $283,678 to local orphan homes, $337,610 for
                    county jails, $44,485 for truant officers, and $435,489
                    for outdoor poor relief. It is impossible in a brief notice to refer to all the
                    data in this report. Parts of it are alarming. It is an inventory of the
                    State's unusable citizens, the salvage corps working among the
                    wreckage.
            The board has issued a number of pamphlets indicating its efforts to solve the
                    questions of poverty and defection and its attempts to save some of the
                    unfortunates.
            
               Bulletin No. 1 of the Indiana Society for Mental Hygiene is an
                    announcement of the organization of the society, October 16-17, 1916, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and a statement of its purposes. Ernest H. Lindley, of 
                        Bloomington
                     is president.
            
               Bulletin No. 2 contains the constitution of the society and
                    "Childhood's Bill of Rights", by Virgil H. Lockwood.
            
               Mothers with Dependent Families, a Report of the Committee of
                    the Children's Bureau of Indiana, by T. F. Fitzgibbon, president.
            
            
               Relief to Parents with Dependent Children, by the Board of
                    Children's Guardians, by W. C. Duncan. These reports were made at the
                    Sixth Annual Conference of the Children's Bureau of Indiana, held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , October 17, 1916. The titles of the papers indicate their nature.
            
               A State Aged 100; Glimpses of Social Progress in Indiana During One
                        Hundred Years, by Alexander 
                        Johnson
                    , assisted by Laura Greeley (pp. 20). This is a history of charities
                    in Indiana. The author was the first secretary of the Indiana Board of Charities
                    and Miss Greeley has been chief clerk of the board for many years.
            
               Prison Sunday, a pamphlet of 32 pages, is a brief resume of the
                    results of the State Charities and the outlook for the future.
         
         
            
               Seventieth Annual Report of the Indiana School for the Blind,
                        September 30, 1916. By GEORGE S. WILSON, Superintendent. pp. 61. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE enrollment in the School for the Blind at the end of the
                    year was 122. This school costs about $45,000 per year. There are
                    seven teachers and a full primary and high school course including music and
                    industrial departments. The school is purely educational. It has been in
                    operation since 1847. Last year there were seven graduates.
         
         
            
               Fiftieth Annual Report of the Indiana Boys' School at
                        Plain-field, for the Year Ending September 30, 1916. By GUY C. HANNA,
                    Superintendent. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THIS school was established in 1867 as the House of Refuge for
                    Juvenile Offenders; in 1883 it was named Indiana Reform School for Boys, and in
                    1903, Indiana Boys' School. Its purpose is to reclaim and educate
                    incorrigible boys. There are now enrolled 554 students. The plant consists of
                    528 acres of land and about 50 buildings. The expense for maintenance was
                    $111,590.
         
         
            
               Tenth Annual Report of the Indiana Girls' School for the
                        Year Ending September 30, 1916. By Dr. KENOSHA SESSIONS,
                    Superintendent, pp. 32. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THIS school is located eight miles west of Indiana on the
                    Ben-Hur interurban and the Big Four railway. There are  seven teachers and 344 girls enrolled. The net cost
                    of maintenance was $78,656. Tables of statistics showing facts
                    relative to the institution are given. It is a reformatory school with ample
                    grounds and gardens for industrial training. Of the 2,626 girls admitted since
                    the school opened 525, or one-fourth, have been from 
                        Marion
                     county.
         
         
            
               Annual Report of the Tuberculosis Hospital of Indiana for the
                        Year Ending September 30, 1916. By Dr. C. J. STEVENS, Superintendent,
                    pp. 27. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            THIS hospital is located four miles east of 
                        Rockville
                     on Sand Creek. The number of patients at the end of the year 1915
                    was 135, though 301 had been admitted during the year. The pamphlet is
                    illustrated with a double-page view of the grounds and cottages. This
                    institution was created by the General Assembly in 1907 and opened for patients
                    April 1, 1911.
         
         
            
               Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the Eastern Indiana Hospital for
                        the Insane for the Year Ending September 30, 1916. By Dr. SAMUEL E.
                    SMITH, Superintendent, pp. 67. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THIS hospital is located at Easthaven, near 
                        Richmond
                    . At the end of the year there were 891 inmates, though 1,025 had
                    received treatment during the year. The maintenance expense for the year was
                    $191,785. Tables are given showing nativity, habits, occupations and
                    mental conditions of the patients. Patients are received here from 21
                counties.
         
         
            
               Thirty-eighth Annual Report of the Indiana Soldiers' and
                        Sailors' Home for the Year Ending September 30, 1916. By
                    TEMPLE H. DUNN, Superintendent.
            THIS is one of the most beautiful spots in the State. The
                    grounds consist of 242 acres of land and 33 buildings. The 510 children together
                    with teachers, governesses and officers compose a large family. The school is
                    organized much as the other schools of the State, with all the various
                    departments, library, agricultural grounds and industrial training. The children
                    are the orphans of the Civil War and the care for  them is a small but beautiful tribute by the State
                    to those who freely sacrificed themselves in a time of great necessity.
         
         
            
               Fourth Annual Report of the State Fire Marshal for the Year
                        Ending October 30, 1916. By W. E. LONGLEY, State Fire Marshal.
            THE general purpose of this office is to prevent, as far as
                    possible, the loss of property in the State by fire. The department has been in
                    operation about four years. The department cooperates with the fire marshals in
                    the cities in the investigation of fires and the dissemination
                    of intelligence to prevent such occurrences. As a result of these investigations
                    41 arrests and 13 convictions for arson were had during the year. There were
                    reported 6,018 fires with a total property loss of $5,737,865. Tables
                    showing character of buildings, cause of fire, value and location by towns and
                    cities are given. The department is carrying on an extensive campaign of
                    education along this line.
         
         
            
               Second Annual Report of the Public Service Commission of Indiana
                        for the Year Ending September 30, 1915. pp. 755.
            THIS commission is made up of five commissioners, a
                    sec-letary, a clerk, legal counsel, seven inspectors, thirteen engineers, four
                    rate experts, six accountants, and twelve stenographers. The annual expense is
                    about $100,000. The commission has made 52 appraisals of public
                    utilities and has audited the accounts of 22 utility companies; 4,921 miles of
                    railroad track were inspected, and 5,372 miles of interurban. The larger part of
                    the report consists of tables of statistics showing capitalization, value,
                    surplus, dividends, bonds, stocks, and other data of the public utility
                    corporations under the commission's supervision. The action of the
                    commission is in the form of court procedure and the pamphlets containing the
                    pleadings in individual cases contain much information of historic and popular
                    interest.
         
         
            
               Sixteenth Annual Report of the State Board of Forestry,
                    1916. By ELIJAH GLADDEN, Secretary, pp. 217.
            THE first few pages of this report are devoted to a financial
                    statement of the board. The total expense of the work was  $7,786.31, of which $2,911.39
                    is for the upkeep of the reservation and the balance for the office at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The larger part of the report is taken up with a description of
                    the reservation one mile north of Henryville in 
                        Clark
                     county. This reservation of 2,000 acres was purchased by the State
                    in 1903 and is used as an experimental ground for the problems of reforestation.
                    Small tracts are planted to different kinds of native trees and carefully
                    studied.
         
         
            
               Twenty-eighth Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of
                        Public Instruction for the Year Ending July 31, 1916. By CHARLES A.
                    GREATHOUSE, Superintendent of Public Instruction, pp. 1040. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE size of this report is due partly to the rapidly
                    increasing activities of the department and partly to historical matter included
                    in commemoration of the centennial year. The first 559 pages are historical,
                    dealing first with the department then with the institutions of higher learning,
                    with the history of the public schools by counties and last an account of the
                    History Consultation service. There is not room here to say more concerning this
                    part of the book than that it contains brief histories of the colleges of the
                    State and of the schools of each county. Numerous engravings illustrate the
                    advancement made in school architecture during the century. The second part of
                    the volume contains the reports of the High School Inspector, of the Vocational
                    Work, of the Consolidation of Rural Schools, of the State Teachers'
                    Retirement Fund, of the Teachers' Licenses issued, of Accredited
                    Schools, a list of persons holding Life State and Professional Licenses, and of
                    the Distribution of the Funds. It is an interesting volume and contains a great
                    amount of information both popular and professional.
         
         
            
               Annual Report of Auditor of State for the Year Ending September
                        30, 1916. By DALE J. CRITTENBERGER, Auditor of State, pp. 1,860. (The
                    auditor's report 100 years earlier consisted of two pages.) Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THIS extensive volume is not paged consecutively but consists
                    of six individual reports, paged and indexed separately. The first 52 pages are
                    devoted to the office as a whole, containing the tables of receipts and
                    disbursements of the State. The  total
                    receipts for the year were $13,154,310.27; expenses,
                    $12,046,637.13, leaving a balance of $1,042,083.30. The
                    Report of the Insurance Department occupies 428 pages; Building and Loan
                    Department 419 pages; Bank Department 295 pages; Proceedings of the State Board
                    of Tax Commissioners 547 pages; and the Biennial Report of Indiana State Board
                    of Tax Commissioners 119 pages. One of the most interesting tables is the
                    Abstract of the Tax Duplicate for 1915, in the last report, giving value of
                    lands, improvements, mortgages, and railroads for State and counties. The total
                    real estate value is $1,364,780,930; of railroads is
                    $219,496,631. Seven new banks and ten trust companies were organized
                    during the year. There were 389 State banks, 201 private banks, 157 trust
                    companies, 5 Savings Banks, 1 Mortgage Guarantee Company, with a capital stock
                    of $34,520,550 and over $238,-000,000 on deposit, and over
                    $203,000,000 loaned out. A list of banks by counties is given and a
                    financial statement of each. A list of the insurance companies shows a capital
                    stock of $222,000,000 and resources of $64,000,000.
         
         
            
               Biennial Report of the Attorney-General for 1915, 1916. By
                    EVAN B. STOTSENBURG, Attorney-General, pp. 1086. Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            THE first 32 pages contain a summary of the
                    Attorney-General's work in the Circuit, Appellate and Supreme Courts.
                    The remainder of the volume contains the official opinions of the
                    Attorney-General given to the various State officials. These cover a field as
                    wide as the combined activities of the State government. The opinions are
                    gathered under headings referring to the department asking for the opinions,
                    beginning with the governor and ending with the Legislative Visiting Committee.
                    An index makes the material readily available.
         
         
            
               Constitution Making in Indiana; A Source Book of
                    Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical Notes. By
                    CHARLES KETTLEBOROUGH, Ph.D. In two volumes. 
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Indiana Historical Commission, 1916; pp. CCXL, 530, XV, 693.
                    $1.50.
            THESE two volumes by Dr. Kettleborough, prepared under the
                    direction of the new Indiana Historical Commission,  should be welcomed by historical students both
                    within and without the State. The shelf space allotted to books relating to the
                    history of Indiana in the libraries of the country has been very limited,
                    because little has been required. The situation is improving, several worthy
                    volumes having appeared in recent years to fill the void. Moreover, the
                    legislature of 1915 was induced to create the Indiana Historical Commission.
                    Fortunately, in addition to the placing of centennial duties on this commission,
                    the act creating it provided a moderate sum to be used in gathering up and
                    publishing some of the source material available in the State. At its recent
                    session, the legislature was wise enough to continue the commission, and it is
                    to be hoped that it will have a long lease of life and its work receive more
                    generous support.
            The volumes under review contain a large amount of material "designed to
                    illustrate and interpret the constitutional growth and development of the State
                    of Indiana from the beginnings of its institutional history to the
                    present." So states the editor in his preface, and his object has been
                    well and thoroughly accomplished. The scope of his undertaking may be understood
                    from his statement that, "For the hundred years from 1816 to 1916, an
                    attempt has been made to include every document of a constitutional
                    character." Considering the great number of documents, long and short,
                    unimportant and important, that have been presented, one would not venture to
                    assert that the editor's attempt has not been successful without having
                    made a thorough search for omitted matter.
            The documentary and other materials furnished will prove valuable and interesting
                    to all students of the history of constitution making by States. Because of the
                    appearance of the volumes at a time when a constitutional convention has been
                    provided for, they will be especially useful to those who are chosen to serve in
                    the convention as delegates. In addition, it should be stated that any person
                    interested in the general history of Indiana will find much of value in the
                    source matter included in the work.
            The editor has preceded the documentary material with an introduction of two
                    hundred twenty-five pages. This historical narrative is based on newspaper
                    sources in addition to the  constitutional
                    matter which it precedes, and is in itself a valuable contribution. The appendix
                    contains the returns by counties of the votes cast in a number of elections when
                    constitutional matters were referred to the electorate. Each volume is supplied
                    with a topical index. Neither the paper nor the binding used are first-class,
                    but no doubt the Historical Commission will find it possible to improve future
                    volumes in this respect. The reviewer is of the opinion that historical students
                    and the public will agree with the Commission that Dr. Kettleborough's
                    "volumes are of signal historical importance, and that they will prove
                    to be of decided value to all who may be especially interested in the
                    legislative and governmental experience of Indiana", and that
                    "it is eminently desirable that such service to our history as the
                    production of these volumes should be rendered to the State."
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers; A Collection of Reprints
                    from Books of Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830. Selected and Edited by
                    HARLOW LINDLEY. 
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Indiana Historical Commission, 1916. 596 p.
                    ($1.50.)
            THIS volume was prepared by Mr. Harlow Lindley of the
                    Department of Indiana History and Archives and published by the Indiana
                    Historical Commission under the provisions of the act of the Indiana General
                    Assembly, approved March 8, 1915. The object of the volume as stated in the
                    introduction is "to make available to the people of the State and
                    others interested in Indiana history, material which could not be procured
                    easily otherwise."
            The date of the first selection is 1778. The last comes down to 1834. Thirty-four
                    pages of material bear on the period prior to 1816. Two hundred one pages are
                    devoted to the years 1816 to 1820. The remaining three hundred four pages deal
                    with the period from 1820 to 1834. The editor states in the introduction that
                    four of the contributions included have never before appeared in print. One
                    might wish that more of this sort of material had been collected and published
                    instead of such well known works as that of Flint which fills  twenty-five pages of the volume. But even in
                    selecting from Flint such material as relates to Indiana and thus rendering it
                    more available, Mr. Lindley deserves much credit. It should be a matter of
                    gratification to students of Indiana history that at last something is being
                    done along this line in our State.
            The selections taken together present a vivid picture of early Indiana. Each is
                    preceded by a brief introduction by the editor in which there is stated a few
                    facts concerning the author and his work. The volume is well indexed.
            CHARLES ROLL.
         
      
      
         
      
   
