
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 70, Issue 3, pages 197-282. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:70+issue:3+year:1974&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Plague of New Elizabeth
            Don Alan Hall and Ruth A. Hall*
            
                    … for weeks no traveler passed along the road …. Trains would not stop
                        … but passed through at an extra rate of speed. Many of the residents packed their
                        household goods and moved ….
                    … the town has never recovered from the depression caused by the terrible epidemic.1
               
                
            In the summer of 1873 the town of New Elizabeth, Indiana, had grown from the original twenty-nine
                    lots platted by Jesse Vieley in 18512 to more than 100 lots, most of which
                    contained dwellings or other improvements.3 The first lots of the town were laid
                    out along the state road, with one tier 
                  * Don Alan Hall is a journalist living in Corvallis, 
                                Oregon
                            . Ruth A. Hall, his mother, is an amateur historian and long time
                            clerk-treasurer of the town of Lizton, Indiana. The following article, which was written by
                            Mr. Hall, is based on oral tradition as interpreted by Mrs. Hall and on her research in
                            primary sources. Unless otherwise indicated the photographs which accompany this article
                            were provided by Mrs. Hall.
                  
                     1 R. S. Debra, "The Cholera," 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Republican, October 22, 1953.
                  
                     2 An atlas of 
                                Hendricks County
                             published in 1878, as well as several county histories, indicates that New
                            Elizabeth was laid out in 1837. This date is apparently incorrect. While the Vieley land
                            grant for the 320 acres which included the townsite was dated 1831, real estate transactions
                            recorded in 
                                Hendricks County
                             suggest that it was twenty years before the town was actually founded. Atlas of Hendricks Co., Indiana, To Which Is Added Various General Maps,
                                History, Statistics, Illustrations … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 10. See also History of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                , Indiana: Her People, Industries and Institutions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 97-99; History of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 717-18; Deed Record Book, XIV, 144 (Recorder's Office, 
                                Hendricks County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Danville
                            , Indiana). "Vieley" has been so spelled in this article
                            because the authors felt that it was the most logical and acceptable variation of the name.
                            Other sources list it as "Veley," "Veeley," or
                            "Veiley." See, for example, U. S. Ninth Census, 1870, population schedules
                            for 
                                Hendricks County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 593, roll 322); Debra,
                            "Cholera."
                  
                     3
                            
                                Hendricks County
                             tax records for the year 1873 were used to determine the size and approximate
                            layout of New Elizabeth and the locations of the specific houses which are mentioned in this
                            article. Tax
               
                     on the southwest side and two tiers along the northeast side of
                    that 
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Crawfordsville
                     route. The town's location seemed ideal, for besides being on the main road,
                    it was about halfway between 
                        Danville
                    , the 
                        Hendricks County
                     seat, and 
                        Lebanon
                    , the seat of 
                        Boone County
                    .
            The 
                  Indianapolis, Bloomington
                & Western Railroad had come in 1869 to parallel
                    the state road and to give impetus to industrial growth and economic prosperity. New Elizabeth
                    spread northward a quarter of a mile to the railroad and farther beyond along both the east and west
                    sides of the road to 
                        Lebanon
                    . Rails meant that for the first time there was a market for the timber that remained on
                    the land, although much of the original virgin hardwood cover had already been wasted.4
            
            The town itself had begun to develop along the railroad. The post office, which had opened on the
                    state road in 1851, was moved north to the railroad, and nearby was the town's railroad
                    station and new hotel. On the north side of the tracks was a factory which produced barrel staves
                    and barrel heads. This industry, and a bumper factory, were operated by the four Sourwine brothers.
                    These men were in human resources what the railroad was to the industrial and commercial potential
                    of New Elizabeth. The Sourwines brought to the community the serious air of growth and economic
                    success. John Sourwine was the superintendent of mill operations; Samuel Sourwine bought timber and
                    followed its progress from standing, living plant material to finished product shipped out on the
                    railroad; Isaac Sourwine also worked in the mill and bought timber as well; Jake Sourwine was a
                    blacksmith; and John Sourwine's oldest son, Isaac, was the mill's engineer. As the
                    town grew in importance, its name was shortened; New Elizabeth was too long for railroad
                    telegraphers. The newly industrialized town became, at least for railroad purposes, simply
                        "Lizton."5
            
            Through the early weeks of the summer of 1873 residents of New Elizabeth could see little reason to
                    worry about distant problems; however, threatening reports were to be found 
                  Duplicates, 1873, pp. 63-87 (Auditor's Office, 
                                Hendricks County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Danville
                            , Indiana). The tax records for 
                                Hendricks County
                             in 1873 are kept in two bound volumes, separately paginated.
                  
                     4
                            History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, with Personal Sketches of Representative Citizens (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), I, 301; History of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 1914, p. 98.
                  
                     5 Roscoe R. Leak, A History of the Christian Church,
                                Lizton, Indiana (n.p., 1911), [22-23].
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Atlas of Hendricks Co., Indiana, To Which Is Added Various
                                General Maps, History, Statistics, Illustrations … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 15. Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Atlas of Hendricks Co., Indiana, To Which Is Added Various
                                General Maps, History, Statistics, Illustrations … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 30. Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     in the newspapers that were brought by train from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Not the least of the bad news were the frequent accounts of the Asian cholera that was
                    then spreading through the central 
                        United States
                     as the final wave of a pandemic which had begun some years earlier in Asia. Reports of
                    the disease might not have seemed particularly ominous, however, because "cholera"
                    was not an unusual summer disease. The term often was used to describe sicknesses such as dysentery
                    that were less serious than the dreaded Asiatic plague.6
            
            While medical experts of that time regarded Asiatic cholera as difficult or impossible to cure, many
                    considered it preventable; it was known to be related to sewage and sewage polluted water. A weekly
                    newspaper reported: "It is fortunately the case that, so far as preventative measures are
                    concerned, the doctors of all schools of medicine substantially agree. Allopaths, homeopaths, and
                    eclectics all concede the virtues of chloride of lime, carbolic acid, copperos and the various
                    disenfectants, antiseptics and deodorizers now in general use."7
                    Perhaps in part because of newspaper advertisements, a number of people also believed quinine to
                    have preventive powers against cholera: "Persons living in or visiting sections where
                    Malaria, Fever and Ague, Bilious Fever, &c, are the characteristic diseases, should be
                    provided with … Quinine, one of the best Remedial Agents which the science of Chemistry
                    has placed at the disposal of the physician …."8 In 1873
                    many still referred to cholera as "malarious congestion," and a sizable portion of
                    the medical profession were still miasmatists to a certain degree; that is, they believed diseases
                    such as cholera and malaria could be generated by poisonous vapors from swamps and rubbish heaps. It
                    was not until 1883 that German bacteriologist Robert Koch isolated the cholera vibrios from cases of
                    the disease in 
                        Egypt
                    .9
            
            
               
                  6 Erwin H. Ackerknecht, History and Geography of the Most
                            Important Diseases (
                            New York
                        , 1965), 28; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 21, 22, 23, 24, August 2, 8, 1873; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Evening News, July 28, August 1, 1873.
               
                  7 Ackerknecht, History and Geography of the Most Important
                            Diseases, 28; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, July 24, 1873.
               
                  8
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
               
                  9 John S. Chambers, The Conquest of Cholera:
                            America's Greatest Scourge (
                            New York
                        , 1938), 335, 342, 345-46, 347-48. See also Charles E. Rosenberg, The
                            Cholera Years: The 
                                United States
                             in 1832, 1849, and 1866 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1962), 3-4.
            
            
            As August, 1873, wore on, concern about cholera became widespread in Indiana. There were probably
                    very few Hoosiers who had not heard of that dreaded intestinal disorder with its uncontrollable
                    diarrhea which dehydrated the body and its unbearable cramps which frequently heralded death. There
                    is no reason to believe that fear of cholera was less in the growing town of New Elizabeth than in
                    any other Indiana community. There had been several cholera deaths as near as 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and reports of panic in cities such as 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , where there had been a serious outbreak, were in all the newspapers.10 Most Indiana towns during the 1870s, however, never experienced direct contact with the
                    cholera vibrios; New Elizabeth was not so fortunate. Possibly no where else in the central part of
                    the state did the disease have such an impact.
            Conflicting stories of the introduction of cholera to New Elizabeth have been told. It can probably
                    be traced, however, to the arrival in the town of William Davis, his young wife, Fannie, and their
                    baby. The Davises came from the tiny community of Needmore which existed for a time a few miles
                    southwest of New Elizabeth on the road running between 
                        Danville
                     and New Maysville. The couple seems to have been known to New Elizabeth residents
                    although no indication has been found as to why they moved there on Wednesday, August 20, 1873.11
            
            The Davises moved into a small house in New Elizabeth. Thursday, August 21, passed uneventfully as
                    Fannie Davis probably went about settling into what may have been the first home that she could call
                    her own. The future possibly seemed bright for the young family that day, but the outlook changed
                    suddenly midway through the family's second night in the new home. It was after
                    midnight—Friday morning—when Fannie awoke to find herself violently ill. So
                    frightening was her sickness that before dawn her husband went out to summon medical help.12
            
            Dr. John A. Dicks, who probably conducted his practice from his home on the south side of the state
                    road, was 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 21, 22, 23, 24, August 2, 8, 1873; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening News, July 28, August 1, 22, 1873.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873; Leak, History of
                                the Christian Church, [23].
                  
                     12
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
               
                     described as an energetic young man with a personality and
                    outlook that fitted well in New Elizabeth. He had moved to the town in 1867 and had started his
                    practice there in 1870 after receiving a diploma from Indiana Medical College in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .13 He in all likelihood went at once to Fannie Davis' side
                    and watched her for a time. Surely he suspected Asiatic cholera when he learned the sick
                    woman's symptoms, but there is no evidence by which to determine his diagnosis. Neither is
                    there any record of how he treated the woman or what precautions, if any, he took to safeguard the
                    health of baby and husband. It is known, however, that he did not sound a general alarm throughout
                    New Elizabeth, and it is unlikely that the word "cholera" was used to describe her
                    illness. Perhaps Dr. Dicks, not knowing of any way the young mother could have contracted the
                    Asiatic disease, believed that she was merely suffering from an unusually severe case of diarrhea.
                    Apparently, no effort was made to discourage visitors, and she had several. A protracted meeting was
                    in progress at the Christian church, and several of those attending called on the suffering young
                        woman.14 But despite the Christian charity demonstrated by the churchgoers,
                    neighbors, Dr. Dicks, and her sister or sister-in-law, who came to nurse her, Fannie's
                    condition worsened throughout the day.
            Among the people who visited Fannie were members of the family of Thomas B. Hall, a fifty-five year
                    old Kentuckian who farmed about eighty acres two miles west of New Elizabeth. He and his wife,
                    Maria, had lived in the community for approximately eighteen years. In August, 1873, their three
                    youngest children still lived with them in their brick farmhouse near the road to North 
                        Salem
                    . They were Mary, nineteen years old; Cleopatra, fifteen; and Douglas, thirteen. Two
                    older daughters were married. Maria Rachael had become the wife of Caleb F. Adams, a New Elizabeth
                    farmer, in October, 1870; and they had a two year old son, Hickman B. Adams. Lavina Hall had
                    recently married Stephen 
                        Fountain
                     Hardwick, a farmer who owned and farmed 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, September 4, 1873. Mrs. Ethel Barker of Fillmore, Indiana, has Dr.
                            Dicks' diploma. A relative of the Dicks family, Mrs. Barker lived with Dr.
                            Dicks' widow in 
                                Kokomo
                             for two years.
                  
                     14 Leak, History of the Christian Church,
                        [23].
               
                    
                    
                  Left, Thomas B. Hall
                  Right, Douglas Hall
                  Left, Mary and Lavina Hall
               
                     land west and north of 
                        Danville
                     not far from Needmore. Mary Hall, who was to be married soon, was working away from
                    home that summer. Squire Hall, so called because he was serving his fourth nonconsecutive term as
                    justice of the peace, served as an elder of the Christian church, and his wife and daughters were
                    active in church activities. So it was that they were among those attending the meetings the week
                    that Fannie Davis was stricken. At least some of them visited the sick woman.15
            
            Prayer and medicine had little effect. In the afternoon Fannie went into a coma and by 5:00 p.m. she
                    was dead.16 Within a few hours of the onset of her affliction a grave was being
                    dug for her body in the graveyard on Jesse Vieley's place on the southeast side of the east
                    fork of Eel River. After her funeral on Saturday, pallbearers went to the
                    drugstore for some medicinal whiskey.17
            
            On Sunday morning Dr. Dicks was summoned to the care of one of the Hall girls, Mrs. Caleb Adams, who
                    was stricken at church. The terrible truth was becoming evident: Fannie Davis was dead and buried,
                    and Rachael Hall Adams was being taken from church with what was apparently the same illness.
                    Further, it was learned that the Davis baby and Fannie's sister (or sister-in-law) were
                        sick.18 In a community of no more than seventy-five families, it seemed an
                    epidemic was at hand. Since the epidemic was Asiatic cholera, it could be termed a plague.
            Rachael Adams was not taken to her parents' house but to the nearby cabin of William
                    Richardson on the north end of Squire Hall's farm.19 She may have been
                    removed to the Richardson cabin to protect other members of the Hall household, including Cleo and
                    Douglas as well as Squire Hall himself, from the scourge; but it could have been that there was
                        
                  
                     15
                            Ibid.; History of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 1885, p. 719, 724-25; Atlas of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 19, 31-32; Clarence N. Hickman, Genealogy of the Hickman
                                Families of 
                           Virginia, Kentucky
                        , Indiana and 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 33.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873. Most, if not all, reports in
                            the Union were written by David C. Lane, a New Elizabeth teacher-merchant.
                  
                     17 Eldora Keeney to Ruth A. Hall, [January, 1970]. Mrs. Keeney, a
                            niece of George L. Leak, one of the pallbearers, related details of the funeral as she had
                            heard them.
                  
                     18 Leak, History of the Christian Church, [23].
                  
                     19 Debra, "Cholera"; Atlas of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 31.
               
                     more room at the neighboring house to care for the sick young
                    woman. At any rate there were several members of the family on hand to help care for
                    her—her sister, Lavina Hardwick, among them. Still, it is possible that the care Rachael
                    received was somewhat half hearted, for there is reason to believe the prospect of cholera terrified
                    the Halls.20
            
            As Sunday became Monday and new victims fell ill, it was significant that apparently no abuse was
                    directed toward the Davises, at least as far as is now known. Communities could be hateful toward
                    those who were thought to have initiated outbreaks of cholera.21 There is
                    probably little doubt that citizens of New Elizabeth knew Fannie Davis to be the first victim of
                    cholera and the one who introduced the loathsome affliction to their town. Nevertheless, while there
                    may have been fears and misgivings at the time of her death, Fannie was given Christian rites and
                    was not remembered as the vector of cholera in the folklore that grew out of the 1873 plague of New
                    Elizabeth.
            Stories told of the epidemic scores of years later by survivors did have a culprit, however. Children
                    and grandchildren of those who lived through the epidemic heard that a foreigner brought cholera
                    directly from abroad to New Elizabeth. Such an account was published in a weekly newspaper in 
                        Danville
                     many years later: "A refugee escaped from a cholera infested ship in 
                        New York
                     Harbor. Traveling west, he became so ill that he had to leave the train at Lizton,
                    where he died."22 It is likely that variations of the same story were
                    told elsewhere after there was a siege of cholera, and in some other town it is possible that the
                    story may have been true. The railroad, which changed New Elizabeth and many other such places from
                    minor supply villages to growing regional manufacturing towns, did help spread cholera through the
                    midlands of the 
                        United States
                    .23 But the refugee story did not fit New Elizabeth except as a
                    vehicle for helping 
                  
                     20 See footnote 35 below.
                  
                     21 See 
                                Norman
                             Longmate, King Cholera: The Biography of a Disease (
                                London
                            , 1966); and Ackerknecht, History and Geography of the Most
                                Important Diseases. Both of these volumes document several cases of violence
                            directed toward persons suspected of bringing cholera to a community.
                  
                     22 Debra, "Cholera."
                  
                     23 Ackerknecht, History and Geography of the Most
                                Important Diseases, 28.
               
                     people to forget that the disease came to town first with a
                    well liked, young married couple.
            On Monday morning, August 25, Rachael Adams was still alive although she had slumped to a very low
                    state. The Davis baby had died, and while Fannie Davis' sister (or sister-in-law) was not
                    getting worse, there was no cause for optimism. Shortly after 10:00 a.m. Dr. Dicks was called to the
                    home of Martin Griggs who had been seized with a sickness that was apparently cholera. Little is
                    known about Griggs—even what he did for a living in New Elizabeth. The record indicates
                    only a few facts; he was fairly prosperous by local standards, and he had a son who was a deafmute.
                    Probably Griggs had not lived in town for more than a year or two. His permanent resting place was
                    dug at the cemetery, however, by Jesse Vieley and David Leak; Griggs lived only about seven hours
                    after contracting the disease.24
            
            Griggs' body had been in the ground but a few hours when Dr. Dicks was summoned again to the
                    Hall farm. He drove his two wheeled cart out along the state road and the North 
                        Salem
                     Road to the brick house. This time he found Lavina Hardwick in the convulsions of
                    cholera. One can only imagine the terror that filled the family, with daughters apparently dying in
                    each of the Squire's two houses. Their mother and sister, Cleo, probably helped take care
                    of the two young women. Mary Hall was caring for Maria Rachael's baby boy elsewhere, and
                    the Squire himself was no help— he was feeling infirm.25 Some thought
                    he, too, had cholera.26 Although Rachael Adams lingered on barely alive, Lavina
                    Hardwick died only seven hours after she was stricken.27 It must have been clear
                    to Dr. Dicks that he should call for professional assistance from more experienced physicians,
                    although a respite in the epidemic may have given him cause for delay.
            At 2:00 a.m. Friday, August 29, however, the need for outside help was obvious. Dr. Dicks awoke
                    feeling the early symptoms of cholera, and as the minutes of the night ticked 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 18, 1873. Tax records of 
                                Hendricks County
                             in 1873 indicate that Griggs paid taxes on personal property valued at
                            $392.
                  
                     25 Debra, "Cholera"; 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873; interviews with Mrs. Ethel
                            Barker and her twin sister, Mrs. Edna Smith.
                  
                     26 Conversations with Douglas Hall, the grandfather of Don Alan Hall; 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
               
                    
                    
                  GRAVESTONE OF LAVINA HALL HARDWICK
               
                     on, he became expert in the suffering and pain the disease
                    could inflict on a patient with a severe case—the vomiting, the purging, and pain. His
                    wife, Minnie, offered comfort and followed his instructions when he gave them. Neighbors came,
                    too—those who were not afraid. Mrs. Benjamin Hedges was one who helped. She was the wife
                    of a veteran of the War of 1812—a man much older than she. David C. Lane, storekeeper and
                    teacher, visited Dr. Dicks, too.28
            
            Dicks probably believed he was going to die. He had little faith in his own medicines, nor apparently
                    did he expect any results from the other physicians who had been summoned. Between seizures of
                    intense cramping he conversed with his friends and probably told them what it was like to have
                    cholera. And he asked to see his mother again. His parents lived on a farm near Fillmore, about
                    thirty-five miles away. Other physicians who arrived accepted Dr. Dicks' diagnosis, but
                    they could offer no remedies. One who came in midafternoon was Dr. J. A. Comingore of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , one of Dicks' instructors at the Indiana Medical College. After an interval
                    of quiet talk with colleagues, friends, and wife, Dicks slipped into a coma and was dead at 5:00
                    p.m.— before his parents arrived.29
            
            The death of the cheerful young doctor doubtless frightened residents of New Elizabeth more than
                    anything before had done. Doctors were supposed to be immune from maladies which killed common men.
                    Dicks' death also made the cholera outbreak in New Elizabeth newsworthy. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Evening News, for example, published a story headlined "Death of a
                    Physician," which read: "Dr. A. J. Dicks of Elizabethtown [sic] 
                        Hendricks county
                     … died of pernicious congestion [a popular euphemism—especially
                    in the press] yesterday, after an illness of fourteen hours." The story went on to give
                    some details of the illness and a bit of biographical information before concluding: "The
                    deceased was a young man, energetic, honorable, self-sacrificing and an ornament to the profession,
                    and a victim to overwork, loss of sleep and exposure, for he rode day and night to relieve the
                    suffering. His place will be hard to fill."30
            
            
               
                        28
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  29
                        Ibid.; Leak, History of the Christian Church, [23]; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Evening News, August 30, 1873, quoted in 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, September 4, 1873.
               
                  30
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Evening News, August 30, 1873, quoted in 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, September 4, 1873.
            
            
            Dicks' body was placed in a coffin and hauled to the railroad station for the trip to
                    Fillmore. A group of friends and relatives went along on the journey which proceeded by way of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Word of his death—and the cause of it—reached Fillmore well
                    before the funeral party. Fillmore residents heard only that cholera was coming to their
                    town— on the train. They expected it to spread as a plague of horrible death and
                    suffering. Several Fillmore residents talked themselves into an active frenzy about the coming of
                    the cholera victim's body, and when mourners from New Elizabeth got off the train in
                    Fillmore, they found armed men surrounding the depot. No one, the Fillmore men said, would be
                    allowed to proceed with the coffin through the town to the graveyard. The guns were loaded and the
                    gunbearers were frightened. Surely, New Elizabeth residents argued, Fillmore would allow Dr. Dicks a
                    decent burial in his home town. Due to the persuasion of a few sympathetic Fillmore residents,
                    including Dr. James Robinson, it was agreed that the body could be buried in the graveyard if the
                    procession would not go through town. So coffin and mourners traveled through a woods to reach the
                    cemetery. There, New Elizabeth residents had to dig the grave because no one from Fillmore would do
                        it.31 Before the brief religious service began, Dr. Robinson opened the
                    coffin to straighten the body of his colleague. It is recorded that because of his contact with the
                    dead man he suffered a mild case of cholera about thirty-six hours later.32
                    Reporting later on the burial of Dr. Dicks, the Jamestown Commercial chastized
                    Fillmore and its people. "Shame to such a community," the newspaper commented.
                    "They need missionaries worse than the South Sea Islanders."33
            
            Back in New Elizabeth there were more cholera cases, including that of W. G. Haggard. Little is known
                    about Haggard—where he lived or his occupation. He was reported to have been in ill
                    health for about a year when he was stricken. At the same time, west of town, Cleopatra Hall was
                    convulsing with cholera. With Dr. Dicks gone what medical 
                  
                     31 Details of the reception of Fillmore residents were taken from the
                            Jamestown Commercial as reprinted in the 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873, and from interviews with Mrs.
                            Ethel Barker and Mrs. Edna Smith.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, September 4, 1873.
                  
                     33 Jamestown Commercial, quoted in the 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
               
                     attention there was came from physicians practicing in
                    surrounding communities.34
            
            On the Hall farm the condition of Rachael, still confined to the Richardson cabin, appeared
                    unchanged, and there seemed no hope for Cleo. On Sunday, August 31, she was dying, and Mrs. Hall had
                    cholera. Young Doug took a comfort and went back into a woods to escape the scene of suffering. He
                    came out to the farmstead only for food which his aunt, who lived across the road, prepared and
                    placed at the Hall's front gate for whoever would eat it. She and other relatives were
                    afraid to come any closer.35 More personal help came from neighbors such as
                    George Dale, who had constructed Lavina's coffin, and George (Tack) Lyons.36
            
            By Monday night Dale had two more coffins to make. Both Cleo and her mother were dead, and their
                    boxed bodies were taken to Vieley's graveyard while Rachael clung to life. Neither Doug nor
                    his father went to the burying. The boy stayed in the barn, and the Squire remained bedridden with
                    what many assumed to be cholera. It may well not have been that disease, however. If he was ill, he
                    recovered, and so far as is known no one else who had contact with the family developed a fatal case
                    of cholera.37
            
            Tack Lyons, however, did experience symptoms of the sickness and assumed he was dying. A practical
                    country man, the twenty-two year old Lyons rode into town to the drugstore, bought some quinine, and
                    gave himself an almost intolerably large dose. So that no one would have to clean up after him, he
                    made himself a bed in a strawstack behind a neighbor's barn. He told the neighbors to check
                    on him in the morning, but he expected they would find him dead. About 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 6, 1873; 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873. Leak indicates that Jacob
                            Kendall and a Mr. Haggard donated most of the work on the church benches in the new
                            Christian church which was built in 1872. Leak, History of the Christian
                            Church, [27]. Whether or not this was W. G. Haggard has not been ascertained.
                  
                     35 Thomas Hall's half brother, William, and his family lived
                            across the road. Atlas of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 31. Descendants were told this account of caring for the stricken
                            family. However, Douglas Hall, in later years, often spoke—somewhat exaggeratedly
                            perhaps—of surviving mainly on green apples, then thought by many to be a
                            contributing factor to cholera.
                  
                     36 Debra, "Cholera."
                  
                     37 Douglas Hall said that his father had been laid up with back
                            trouble at the time of the epidemic, but Debra's article, based on a 1953 interview
                            with the ninety-three year old Hall, does not mention the nature of the Squire's
                            illness.
               
                     midnight a curious neighbor went out to see how badly
                    Lyons' case had progressed. In the lantern's glow he found Tack alive but with
                    seriously impaired hearing because of the overdose of quinine.38
            
            After the third member of the Hall family was buried, it seemed the epidemic might be lifting its
                    hold on New Elizabeth. But on Tuesday, September 2, another resident, William R. Logston, developed
                    the disease. "Cholera in 
                        Hendricks County
                    ," proclaimed the headline in the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Banner. "The cholera is still raging at New Elizabeth in this county with
                    somewhat abated fury. It is reported that two of Thomas B. Hall's children have been taken
                    from him by that dread scourge and that several others in that region have succumbed." The
                    article, signed "
                        Danville
                     Indianian," concluded: "Owing to the absence from home during the
                    greater portion of the week, we have been unable to learn the names of all the victims."39
            
            While there were many outside physicians visiting New Elizabeth to minister to the ill, it was not
                    very many days before the town again had its own doctor. Dr. J. W. Culley, a former school principal
                    at 
                        Danville
                    , broke up a medical partnership there and came to New Elizabeth "to labor in
                    behalf of afflicted humanity," as one newspaper reported. "He has determined to
                    cast his lot with citizens of that town and vicinity…. and we wish him abundant
                        success."40 Dr. Culley summoned from 
                        Louisville
                     a physician known to be an expert on cholera, Dr. Santa Monta Heslea.41 It is reported that another doctor came to New Elizabeth planning to set up practice, but
                    according to contemporary accounts he did not stay long. After "a day or so,"
                    David C. Lane reported to the 
                        Danville
                    
                    Hendricks County Union, he "complained of feeling curious abdominally and
                    went home, tho' W. J. Lowry offered him $10 a day from his own pocket besides
                    his fees, 
                  
                     38 Both Leak's 1911 account and Debra's widely
                            divergent 1953 report mention this story although it does not appear in any newspaper
                            article written at the time of the epidemic. Leak, History of the Christian
                                Church, [24]; Debra, "Cholera"; Cline and McHaffie, The People's Guide: A Business, Political and Religious Directory of Hendricks
                                Co., Ind. … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1874), 378.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, September 11, 1873.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 4, 1873.
                  
                     41 Both Leak and Debra tell of the 
                                Louisville
                             expert's being called; Leak spelled the name "Santa Monta
                            Helsea," and Debra spelled it "Santae Hasles." David C. Lane,
                            reporting for the 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union's September 11, 1873, edition, spelled the
                            name "Heslea." Leak, History of the Christian Church.,
                            [24]; Debra, "Cholera."
               
                     if he would remain."42 One report
                    said that the cowardly doctor was a native of Fillmore.43 This gives the story a
                    flavor of folklore since Fillmore was an infamous place to New Elizabeth residents after the
                    incident of Dr. Dicks' burial.44
            
            New Elizabeth's cholera plagued residents also had their share of medicine men.
                    "Innumerable are the remedies that have been tried, some prescribed by our best physicians,
                    others by traveling quacks, vending chloroform, liniments &c, warranting a cure in 3 minutes
                    when no doubt they would come nearer killing in the same time," Lane wrote. But Lane did
                    his share of practicing medicine, and, according to his own accounts, he had better luck than the
                    physicians. He said that he had been in 
                        Danville
                     when the epidemic broke out, so before he returned home, he took down a prescription
                    for cholera medicine from 
                        Hendricks County
                     Recorder William Patterson. Lane tried the concoction on the deafmute son of Martin
                    Griggs. Although the boy could not describe his illness, Lane said that it was obvious young Griggs
                    was wracked by chills and cramps. He gave him a dose of the recorder's remedy, put hot
                    bricks against his feet, and propped his head high. He also bathed the boy's body in a
                    strong camphor solution. The boy survived, although his father died. Lane used the same treatment on
                    his own daughter when she seemed to be taking cholera, and it is possible he used it on several
                    others—perhaps on some who died—but there is no evidence one way or the
                        other.45
            
            William Logston died Thursday, September 4, despite medications and the efforts of the doctors. On
                    Saturday morning his wife was seized with severe cholera symptoms. Probably the next case was that
                    of Benjamin Hedges, a hatter and veteran of the War of 1812 whose wife had helped care for some of
                    the earlier victims.46 The Hedges' home was a small, squalid abode
                    south of the state road opposite the 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
                  
                     43 The 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union of September 11, 1873, lists J. W. Culley as one of
                            several physicians who served New Elizabeth residents after the death of Dr. Dicks. The
                            article also mentions "some Dr. from Fillmore" who fled.
                  
                     44 Dr. Dicks' headstone in the Fillmore cemetery bears the
                            date of August 29, 1872. Possibly the error in the year was made purposely.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 18, 1873. Lane, at least in his
                            newspaper article, did not share his remedy with his readers.
                  
                     46 Leak, History of the Christian Church [24]; 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873. No mention of what happened to
                            the Logston's three children has been found. U.S. Ninth Census, 1870, 
                                Hendricks County
                            , Indiana, 15.
               
                     junction of Middle Street. The house was assessed in 1872 at
                    only $38, whereas most of the more prosperous homes— such as those built by
                    the Sourwines—were appraised at from $300 to $400.47 Although a hardy man for his seventy-eight years, Hedges had not been in good health that
                    summer. Still, he was considered the community's Methuseleh because only three years before
                    he had fathered a son. His daughters —Alice, five; Elizabeth, seven; and Laura,
                    ten—were also rather young.48 The old man had obvious cholera
                    symptoms, but after he died, Lane attributed the death to "mostly … old
                    age." Oscar, Hedges' three year old son, contracted the disease and died within
                    seven hours of the first noticeable symptoms.49 At least two reports say the
                    child lasted only two hours. Although townspeople who saw him were horrified by the intense
                    suffering which caused the little boy to curl in pain, two hours is probably an exaggeration.50 After Oscar died, one of the girls took the disease and was dead in a few
                        hours.51
            
            With the deaths of the old man and the two young children there was a growing sense of alarm in New
                    Elizabeth. A dozen people had died in two weeks, and there seemed to be no stopping the disease. A
                    few who could do so fled the town and sought refuge with relatives. A week earlier the 
                        Danville
                    
                    Hendricks County Union had reported that people in New Elizabeth did not seem to
                    be much alarmed but were "following their usual avocations daily."52 However, the mood was changing. Farm people avoided the town entirely, and some
                    businesses did not open.53
            
            
               
                  47 County tax records show that the Sourwine houses were the finest in New
                        Elizabeth at the time of the cholera epidemic. Most still are standing.
               
                  48 U. S. Ninth Census, 1870, 
                            Hendricks County
                        , Indiana, 11.
               
                  49
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873. The manuscript census schedules
                        for 1870 record the Hedges boy's name as 
                            Milton
                        . U. S. Ninth Census, 1870, 
                            Hendricks County
                        , Indiana, 11.
               
                  50 Both Leak and Debra mention a boy's dying after only two
                        hours' illness. Leak reports that the Hedges boy "cramped and drew almost
                        double and cried, 'Mamma, I hurts.' " Leak, History of
                            the Christian Church, [24]; Debra, "Cholera."
               
                  51 Lane does not report the death of the Hedges girl, but Leak says that
                        one of the daughters died. Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24].
               
                  52
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union, September 4, 1873.
               
                  53 In the 
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union of September 11, 1873, Lane reports that many citizens
                        had left New Elizabeth and that on Monday, September 8, only one business house in town was
                        open. The authors have heard from several sources that residents fled and businesses closed.
                        Debra emphasizes this slowdown in business in his 1953 account. Debra,
                        "Cholera."
            
            
            As the bodies of the old soldier and his two children were boxed and taken to the cemetery, the
                    Hedges house seemed to exude the malady that caused the deaths. Probably on the insistence of
                    neighbors Mrs. Hedges and her two surviving daughters moved into the then vacant house where Fannie
                    Davis and her child had died. The sorry little Hedges house then was torched.54
            
            Newspapers began to report on what was being called the plague of New Elizabeth or
                    "Elizabethtown," as some called the community. (The railroad name
                    "Lizton" had not caught on well yet.) "New Elizabeth in 
                        Hendricks County
                     … has been visited by cholera in violent and fatal form," the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal reported. "Mrs. S. J. Helley, just from the fated town
                    brings the intelligence that twelve deaths have resulted from the plague during the past ten
                    days." The Journal concluded: "After the death of Dr. Dix [sic] messages were sent to 
                        Louisville
                    , and also to Dr. Wands of this city asking for medical assistance. The request was
                    responded to promptly by the physicians of 
                        Louisville
                    , and Dr. Wands has made arrangements to supply additional medical attendance from the
                    physicians of this city if increase and spread of the disease render it necessary."55
            
            Cholera was indiscriminate about its victims. Old, young, sickly, or healthy—everyone
                    seemed to have the same chance to contract the disease. Eva Burgess, for example, to all appearances
                    was as healthy a person as there was in town. Yet on Friday morning she suddenly became violently
                    ill. Those who came to her home on Middle Street saw her change in a few hours from a hale, stout
                    woman of fifty-five, to a bluish, shrunken corpse.56 The next day, September 6,
                    Mrs. Logston, still grieving the death of her husand, yielded to the disease and died within about
                    eight hours. W. G. Haggard took the 
                  
                     54 While contemporary accounts do not mention the burning of the
                            house, Leak does; and Alice Hedges recounted the incident to relatives later in her life.
                            Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24]; conversations with Mrs.
                            Eldora Keeney.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 6, 1873. S. J. Holley was a jeweller who resided
                            in New Elizabeth. Cline and McHaffie, People's Guide, 375.
                  
                     56 Lane reports the death of Mrs. Burgess but makes no mention of her
                            two daughters and two sons listed in the 1870 census as schoolteachers and farmers
                            respectively. 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873; U. S. Ninth Census, 1870, 
                                Hendricks County
                            , Indiana, 27. The census schedules list Mrs. Burgess' name as
                            Elizabeth.
               
                     disease on Saturday also. While the death of Eva Burgess and
                    other robust residents seemed suprising, Haggard's death did not, since he had been sick
                    for nearly a year.57
            
            Lane wrote that common sense dictated the treatment of cholera cases,58 but, to
                    most, common sense dictated that when someone had cholera he was going to die and that anyone coming
                    into contact with the sick was doomed. Many healthy residents, no doubt, merely hid out if they
                    could or went to visit relatives who may have been less than eager to welcome them from New
                    Elizabeth.
            Church meetings likely were held on Sunday mornings, but no records of the messages or prayers spoken
                    or records of the attendance have been found. The Christian church had about sixty members at the
                        time,59 and the Methodist Episcopal congregation surely was at least as
                    large. Yet it is possible that a few Sundays went by with no meetings at all—with no
                    preacher and no congregation.
            
               LIZTON CHRISTIAN CHURCH BUILT 1872
            
            
               
                  57
                        
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
               
                  58
                        Ibid., September 18, 1873.
               
                  59 Leak, History of the Christian Church, [27].
            
            
            It is unlikely, however, that the streets of New Elizabeth were deserted as cholera went on killing.
                    Several residents worked as faithfully as the physicians to assist patients.60
                    Doctors, of course, could offer little help. Lane wrote at the time: "Our physicians are at
                    a loss to know what to do for it, yet each does his utmost to assist in staying the
                    ravages." What could neighbors do if there was nothing the doctors could do?
                    Lane mentioned two things that his fellow townsmen should not do. First, he said
                    in a dispatch for the 
                        Danville
                    
                    Hendricks County Union: "When a patient is violently attacked, do not
                    suffer a crowd to gather from morbid curiosity." In spite of their fears once New Elizabeth
                    people accepted cholera as a fact in their town, they would gather around a patient to see what it
                    was like to be fatally afflicted with vomiting, diarrhea, and cramps. So they stood about and
                    watched. It might not have seemed polite to ask them to leave since they were doing their Christian
                    duty to come to the aid of the sick. But they also talked. "Let those about be very careful
                    of their conversation," Lane continued. "By no means speak discouragingly, saying
                    as we have heard some, 'That one cannot live, he is already turning
                    black.'" Cholera sufferers, said Lane, were "very sensitive to every
                    motion and expression of those about them, especially in the first three hours of the attack when
                    they seem fully to realize their condition …."61
            
            In spite of the pain and extreme discomforts patients did try to prepare for death. For some, it was
                    an act as simple as Tack Lyons going to the strawstack where he thought he could die in peace. For
                    others, there were spiritual matters to take care of, last minute confessions to make, and
                    forgiveness to ask of God and loved ones. And there was mudane, earthly business to
                    finalize—special gifts of personal property, requests for the care of children and
                    favorite pets. "Some of these scenes are beyond the power of description," Lane
                    wrote. He had been present at several, although none with members of his own family. "They
                    must be witnessed 
                  
                     60 Leak lists several persons who made special efforts to help care
                            for the sticken. Ibid., [24].
                  
                     61
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 18, 1873.
               
                     to form a proper conception of the terrible distress and agony
                        …."62
            
            But Lane managed to find a bit of levity in the midst of the plague. That came from New
                    Elizabeth's only minority group—the Irish railroad maintenance crew that was
                    working on the "Lizton" section of the road.63 There were
                    rumors that the Irish were about to strike or at least to leave their work near the plague ridden
                    town because of fears of the disease. Lane investigated and found that they had chosen to remain.
                    The Irish had held a meeting on the subject at which various cholera preventives were suggested.
                    Many favored coffee, Lane reported. Others thought a good pipe of tobacco at regular intervals was
                    the answer. One Irishman said a glass of apple brandy three times a day would keep cholera away.
                    "A drink of whiskey every five minutes should keep the cholera away for ever,"
                    said still another.64 As far as is known, none of the Irish living in the New
                    Elizabeth area were victims of cholera. Because they lived, worked, and probably ate together, it is
                    likely that if there had been one case of cholera among them, there would have been many more. Since
                    they did not mix with the New Elizabeth residents, it is not surprising that they remained free of
                    the disease. Townspeople, however, continued to get cholera, and they continued to die.
            Although the Irish laborers were a class unto themselves, New Elizabeth had no other marked class
                    divisions except those of economic attainment. In 1873 it was not unusual for a man to go in a short
                    time from subsistence on a small farm to relative wealth as a craftsman or a purveyor of some needed
                    service or commodity. By twentieth century standards all were dirt poor, even though some were
                    considered prosperous. As a storekeeper and former trustee of Union Township, George Shirley
                    naturally was one of the town's more prosperous citizens;65 and if New
                    Elizabeth had had a 
                  
                            62
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     63 The census for 1870 lists at least eighteen Irish railroad workers,
                            one of whom had a family, as living in New Elizabeth. There may have been that many in 1873.
                            U. S. Ninth Census, 1870, 
                                Hendricks County
                            , Indiana, 19, 20, 21.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 18, 1873.
                  
                     65
                            History of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 1885, p. 720; Cline and McHaffie, People's
                                Guide, 381.
               
                     social register, his eighteen year old wife, the former Mollie
                    Wilkinson who was reared between 
                        Danville
                     and New Elizabeth, surely would have been listed near the top. Being Baptists she and
                    her husband had a good excuse to leave New Elizabeth to attend the Baptist Association's
                    Sunday meeting at Abner's Creek a short distance north of 
                        Danville
                    . They went to 
                        Danville
                     on Saturday, September 6, and stayed at the fine home of George's brother,
                    John. The ride out to Abner's Creek and back on Sunday was a happy one. New Elizabeth had
                    become a dreary place to live. The Shirleys stayed Sunday night in 
                        Danville
                     where the young woman became ill. 
                        Danville
                    's best physicians, including Dr. W. J. Hoadley, who was George and John
                    Shirley's brother-in-law, and Dr. Lockhart, watched her until she died early Monday
                        afternoon.66 According to the doctors Mrs. Shirley had a "pretty
                    fair case of cholera," one she had brought from New Elizabeth.67 While
                    the physicians could do nothing for her, they undoubtedly did all they could to make certain that
                    cholera did not spread to other members of the family or to 
                        Danville
                     residents.
            Mollie Shirley was buried in the graveyard at Abner's Creek—probably at night.68 She and Dr. Dicks were the only victims of New Elizabeth's epidemic
                    not laid to rest in Vieley's cemetery. On the day Mrs. Shirley died, Rachael Adams, Squire
                    Hall's daughter, succumbed after more than two week's illness. Thus far two young
                    women who had been married only a few months and two women with two year old sons had died of
                    cholera. Although no contemporary accounts of the plague seem to mention it, it is probable that all
                    four were in some stages of pregnancy.
            Mrs. Hedges, who had moved herself and her daughters to permit the burning of her house, suffered yet
                    another loss. Probably less than a week after moving into the Davis 
                  
                     66 The death of Molly Wilkinson Shirley rated a separate story in the 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union for September 11, 1873. Other details about the
                            young woman were supplied the authors by Eldora Kenney, who recalled hearing them as a
                            child. See also Atlas of 
                                    Hendricks County
                                
                     , 12.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 11, 1873.
                  
                     68 Personal communication from Eldora Keeney.
               
                    
                    
                  LEFT AND ABOVE, GRAVESTONE OF MOLLIE WILKINSON SHIRLEY
               
                    
                  RIGHT AND BELOW, HEAD- AND FOOTSTONES ON GRAVE OF DR. JOHN A. DICKS
               
                    
                    
                  GRAVESTONES OF FANNIE DAVIS AND MARIA RACHAEL HALL ADAMS
               
                     house, a second daughter developed the disease and died. Alice,
                    the remaining daughter, was stricken but survived.69
            
            "Lizton Deserted," said the headline in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal over a story which exaggerated in fact if not in spirit. "From a
                    gentleman who left Lizton … Monday [September 15] we learn that the village was nearly
                    depopulated, the people having been frightened away by the scourge which has swept over the town.
                    Out of one hundred and eight families [probably there were no more than seventy-five] but five
                    remain. Thirty-three deaths have occurred within the last two weeks. The persons attacked by the
                    disease, called by some pernicious fever, and by others cholera, lived but from four to seven hours.
                    A general gloom pervades the whole surrounding country."70
            
            
               GEORGE AND ALICE HEDGES LEAK
            
            
               
                  69 Leak is the only source which mentions the death of the third child in
                        the Hedges family. Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24]. Eldora Keeney,
                        in personal communication with the authors, said that Alice Hedges contracted cholera but
                        recovered. Alice Hedges married Mrs. Keeney's uncle and was partially responsible for
                        rearing her.
               
                  70
                        
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Journal, quoted in the 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Banner, September 18, 1873.
            
            
            Probably many families did leave New Elizabeth, but not all "but five." One family
                    that remained was that of Phillip Helmick. The Helmicks numbered eight—including a
                    married daughter, son-in-law, and baby—and they lived on the east side of the 
                        Lebanon
                     Road not far north of the railroad, probably next door to one of the fine new houses of
                    one of the Sour-wines.71 It is not known what Helmick did for a living; perhaps
                    both he and his oldest daughter's husband worked for the Sourwines. However, it is known
                    that when cholera hit their household, it had the effect of a deadly explosion.
            There were no lingering illnesses among the Helmicks. One by one they felt the awful ravages of the
                    intestinal toxins, and they watched helplessly as other members of the family suffered the same
                    tortures as they themselves were experiencing. One by one they were carried out in castoff drygoods
                    boxes for hasty burial—-at night—at the graveyard. Neighbors were afraid to
                    enter the Helmick home, a pest-house of stinking, deadly horror. No one, not even Lane, was there to
                    record the order in which they died; but in about two days husband, wife, two sons, son-in-law,
                    daughter, and her baby were dead. Only one son, eight year old Newton Helmick, survived after having
                    suffered, no doubt, at least as much of the horrors of the disease as other members of his family.
                    Indeed, so certain was the community that the entire family was doomed that a drygoods box was
                    prepared to receive Newton's body. Some thought he did have cholera,72
                    but when the seven others were being ravaged with the disease, it might have been difficult for an
                    outsider to ascertain.73
            
            
               
                  71 Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24].
               
                  72 Debra's article says that only the Helmick boy and Tack Lyons
                        survived after having contracted cholera. Leak is unclear as to whether the boy was stricken,
                        merely referring to him as the "boy who did not die." Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24]; Debra, "Cholera."
               
                  73 The most complete account of the deaths in the Helmick family comes not
                        from any contemporary report but from Leak. Both Leak and Debra list seven deaths in the family
                        of eight. The names or ages of the dead are not known because the Helmicks were not in New
                        Elizabeth in 1870 when the census was taken. Further, they were buried in unmarked graves, and
                        no public records were kept of the interments. It is not surprising that Lane did not report
                        more fully to the 
                            Danville
                        
                        Hendricks County Union on the deaths of the Helmicks. First, they were
                        stricken on Friday and Saturday, September 12-13; and news of the deaths, when it reached Union readers, would have been almost a week old, giving the impression that
                        the plague was still raging in the community. Further, New Elizabeth residents undoubtedly had
                        become aware
            
            
            One of Newton's brothers was probably the last of the Helmicks to die. His body was found,
                    drawn and blue, on a cot behind the kitchen cookstove where he must have gone in a last effort to
                    ward off the chills and cramps that he felt as he slipped into the peace of coma and death. The
                    kitchen was so awash with the products of cholera, real or imagined, that outsiders were afraid to
                    go in to get the body. Someone got a rope and made a loop in it. The loop was thrown until it hooked
                    the boy's body, and he was dragged out through the kitchen door.74
            
            There would have been no way of determining whether the boy was dead or alive until the rope wielders
                    had pulled him outside and examined him. Even then, it might have been difficult for a layman to be
                    sure. Indeed, it is possible that some persons may have been buried alive at the New Elizabeth
                    cemetery in the community's haste to clean up the scourge of death and to get things back
                    to normal, healthy business. Some of the dead, including the Helmicks, were buried wrapped in the
                    sheets which had been on their sickbeds.75
            
            Perhaps it was because of the advice of the out of town physicians who came to study the disease, or
                    perhaps it was because most of the residents were scared to get near a cholera patient and left the
                    town; but for whatever reason, apparently no new cases developed. Days passed—September
                    15 and September 16—ordinary days of late summer when farmers were cutting corn and
                    gathering it into shocks and days when wheat was being drilled into the soil for the 1874 crop.
                    September 17 saw still no new cases. "The Malarious Congestion, or Cholera, has, we think
                    entirely abated," Lane wrote in a short dispatch to the 
                        Danville
                    
                    Hendricks County Union on Wednesday, September 17. His report was affixed to the
                    end of his earlier story which reported the deaths of the Helmicks as well as other aspects of the
                    plague. Referring 
                  that the name of their town had become infamous throughout central Indiana, and there
                            undoubtedly was pressure on Lane to convey a more favorable and optimistic impression to the
                            outside world—especially when it seemed that the plague had ended. Lane concluded
                            his report for the Union issue of September 18 by saying that the disease
                            was not as bad as had been reported elsewhere and that he would, in future stories, tell of
                            the "growth and prosperity" of New Elizabeth.
                  
                     74 Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24];
                            Debra, "Cholera."
                  
                     75 Leak, History of the Christian Church,
                        [24].
               
                    
                    
                  HICKMAN B. ADAMS, SON OF CALEB AND MARIA RACHAEL HALL ADAMS, Is NOT PICTURED ABOVE
                  Courtesy Almadore Smith.
               
                     to reports such as the one from the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal, Lane wrote: "The disease has not been half as bad as reported.
                    There have only been about twenty-three deaths in the town and vicinity."76 A total of twenty-four deaths probably is more accurate—twenty in town and four
                        outside.77
            
            Only twenty deaths in a population of about 200 is not as staggering a toll as one might expect in an
                    epidemic that came to be called a plague. But if ten per cent of the population of New Elizabeth did
                    die in those three and one half weeks of late August and early September, 1873, the death rate was
                    very high indeed for cholera, although higher rates have been reported. For example, the 1845
                    cholera outbreak in Teheran was fatal to 12,000 of a population of 60,000— that is twenty
                    per cent. The same pandemic was reported to have caused one death in every twelve persons living in
                            
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               —about eight per cent. However, considerably lower
                    mortality figures came from the much heralded epidemics of Great Britain—less than one
                    per cent in both Edinburgh and 
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , in the first outbreaks there.78 Further, it was ordinarily expected that no more than one half of those afflicted with the
                    disease would die.79 In New Elizabeth, however, a maximum of only eight nonfatal
                    cases can be accounted for and that includes Squire Hall. Even if it is accepted that there were
                    other nonfatal cases unreported, that there were only the twenty-four documented victims rather than
                    the thirty-one or thirty-three fatalities which some sources reported,80 and
                    that the population 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union, September 18, 1873.
                  
                     77 It would seem that Lane, being in town and working with the
                            stricken, should have compiled a correct tally of the dead. Yet taking into account other
                            reports and census information, it is difficult not to arrive at a figure of twenty-four
                            dead. The stories in the weekly 
                                Danville
                            
                            Hendricks County Union actually name only twenty persons as having died.
                            One conspicuous omission is that of one of the Hedges daughters who died about the same time
                            as her father and brother whose deaths Lane reports.
                  
                     78 Longmate, King Cholera, 57-58, 158, 169.
                  
                     79 See, for example, Ackerknecht, History and Geography
                                of the Most Important Diseases, 26; "Cholera Epidemic," Science News, XCVIII (September 12, 1970), 216; Roderick E. McGrew, Russia and the Cholera, 1823-1832 (
                                Madison
                            , 1965), 19.
                  
                     80 Debra's story said that thirty-one died. Debra,
                            "Cholera." The 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal, in an article reprinted in the 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner, September 18, 1873, reported thirty-three fatalities.
               
                     of the town was even more than 200,81 it
                    must be concluded that the cholera epidemic at New Elizabeth was particularly virulent.
            No common source—such as a polluted well—for the cholera vibrios can be
                    identified for New Elizabeth. Chance personal contact seems the most likely means by which the
                    disease organisms spread from victim to potential host. New Elizabeth's water supply came
                    from individual wells—most dug only to ten or fifteen feet in depth—and it is
                    possible that some of these could have been contaminated from underground seepage from nearby
                    outhouses. Further, contaminated surface water after a heavy rain could have entered some of the
                    wells to spread cholera.
            Not being highly contagious, cholera is usually transmitted only in food or water, although it can
                    spread from person to person if a sick person's evacuations soil the hands of another
                    person who fails to wash well before eating.82 Cholera vibrios die in a few
                    hours at room temperature and are destroyed easily by heat or chemical antiseptics. Normally they
                    cannot compete with other organisms that live in fecal matter. The incubation period of the disease
                    is short. It generally takes from six hours to two or three days for an infected person to develop
                    cholera, with the length of time depending on the size of the infecting dose.83
                    These characteristics of the cholera vibrios explain why the epidemic in New Elizabeth ended
                    suddenly and completely when it seemed to be at its worst.
            The overall socioeconomic effect of the plague on the town is more difficult to assess than its toll
                    on human lives. In the opinion of many survivors the town never recovered from the depression caused
                    by cholera. "Some older people say the cholera killed Lizton," Roscoe R. Leak
                    wrote in 1911. "There was good business and quite a lot of trade here but it stopped
                    suddenly and was never regained."84
            
            
               
                  81 A separate population figure for the town was not listed in decennial
                        census data until 1910, but another source sets the population of New Elizabeth in 1885 as about
                        275. History of 
                                Hendricks County
                            
                  , 1885, p. 718.
               
                  82 Norbert Hirchhorn and William B. Greenough III,
                        "Cholera," Scientific American, CCXXV (August, 1971), 16.
               
                  83 Hans Zinsser, Bacteriology, edited by David T. Smith,
                            et. al (11th ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1957), 430.
               
                  84 Leak, History of the Christian Church, [24].
            
            
            While the community experienced little growth in the last part of the nineteenth century and the
                    first half of the twentieth, it is difficult to accept the hypothesis that cholera alone halted its
                    development. The epidemic of 1873 undoubtedly was one of the most severe in the state that year;
                    however, it struck New Elizabeth, or Lizton, at a time when frontier economic expansion was drawing
                    to a close. Continued growth of the town through the 1870s and into the twentieth century would
                    necessarily have meant a proportionate lack of growth in surrounding areas. One cannot rule out the
                    possibility that the town might have come to be of much greater importance in the region had it not
                    been for the "plague," but considerably more research into the demography and
                    economics of the entire region will be required before the theory that "cholera killed
                    Lizton" can be accepted.
         
         
         
            A British Diplomat's Portrait of America in 1939
            Edited by Thomas E. Hachey*
            Ever since Alexis de Tocqueville first anatomized Americans and their country in his Democracy in America (1835), numerous Europeans have followed his example and have
                    produced scores of critical books, articles, and essays of a similar nature. The value of such
                    writings and the validity of their conclusions have proved dependent upon a number of
                    considerations, not the least of which has been the perceptivity of the particular author himself.
            Of especial interest to the student of Anglo-American relations in the twentieth century are the
                    confidential and candid analyses of America prepared by British Foreign Office specialists during
                    the period immediately preceding the Second World War. These accounts, representing the considered
                    judgments of professionally trained foreign observers, are particularly noteworthy both for the
                    insights which they afford of the Briton's impression of America and for the
                    correspondingly subtle disclosures which they contain about the Briton himself. One such document is
                    exceptional in each of these respects. Written in 1939 by a member of the 
                        London
                     Foreign Office, it remained closed to public view until 1970 when British archives for
                    this period were made available through a recent act of Parliament.1
            
            
               * Thomas E. Hachey is associate professor of history at Marquette University,
                        Milwaukee, 
                            Wisconsin
                        . He is the editor of Confidential Dispatches: Analyses of America by
                            the British Ambassador, 1939-1945 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1973).
               
                  1 Access to these archives is now governed by the Public Records Act of
                        1967, which introduced from January 1, 1968, a "thirty-year rule," opening the
                        archives to the end of 1937 and making provisions thereafter for the annual advancement of the
                        open date on January 1 of each year. A few papers are closed for fifty years by the lord
                        chancellor's instruments under Section 5 (i) of the Public Records Act of 1958.
            
            
            On June 8, 1939, British Foreign Office Counselor John Balfour delivered a lecture to the British
                    Imperial Defense College, a special staff college for joint service operations equivalent to the 
                        United States
                     National War College. His audience consisted of officers from the armed services of the
                    various Commonwealth nations who were attending the Imperial Defense College for the study of higher
                    strategy and military policy. Balfour's training was in diplomacy, however, and his remarks
                    on that occasion were intended to provide his military audience with an appreciation of those
                    critically important but curiously complex people, the Americans.
            Educated at Eton and at New College, 
                        Oxford
                    , Balfour's career in the British foreign service had taken him to posts in
                    Budapest, Madrid, Sofia, Belgrade, and 
                        Washington
                    . In January, 1937, he was assigned to the 
                        London
                     Foreign Office and was simultaneously designated an advisor to the Imperial War
                        College.2 It was in this latter capacity that he prepared his lecture,
                    vaguely entitled "American Characteristics," a copy of which he gave to a close
                    associate, Sir Frederick Whyte of the Ministry of Information. So impressed was Whyte with this
                    essay that he was moved to write and ask Balfour if the Ministry of Information might publish it in
                    a suitable magazine or perhaps print it as one of the ministry's own pamphlets. Balfour was
                    told that he would be assured anonymity since the lecture could be published "over somebody
                    else's signature."3
            
            Indeed, parts of Balfour's lecture were in any case borrowed liberally from
                    "somebody else."4 A few of his remarks reflect the influence
                    of Frederick Jackson Turner's writings, while others reveal a familiarity with James
                    Truslow Adams' The Epic of America (1931) and Denis William
                    Brogan's The American Political System (1933). Of far greater interest to
                    specialists in this period, however, are the countless examples of this British career
                    diplomat's personal value judgments and conclusions about Americans: the presumed relation
                    between the radical climate patterns of the country and the frightfully tense people who inhabit it;
                    the inference that violence is a generic part of American 
                  
                     2
                            Foreign Office Lists: 1940 (
                                London
                            , 1941), 78.
                  
                     3 Foreign Office Minute, September 18, 1939, Foreign Office General
                            Correspondence File 371, vol. 22814 (
                                London
                             Public Records Office).
                  
                     4 Foreign Office Minute, June 23, 1939, ibid.
                  
               
                     life; the belief that American women retain the same qualities
                    of "self-reliance, practical good sense and never-failing kind-heartedness" which
                    supposedly distinguished their forerunners of the frontier era; and the observation that Americans
                    are remarkably possessed with a sense of their national self importance despite the huge geography
                    and the equally large population of the country. The reader will also perceive an elitist, if not a
                    racist, attitude in some of Balfour's statements. His condescending view of naive and
                    acquisitive American tourists abroad, his candid but unsympathetic remarks about the inequities
                    suffered by the American Negro, and his observation that Americans had no choice but to keep new and
                    unassimilable immigrants at an arm's length serve to illuminate the diplomat more than they
                    do his subject.
            
               
                        London
                    's Foreign Office was conscious of the sensitive state of Anglo-American
                    relations in 19395 and was accordingly anxious to avoid any possible cause of
                    provocation. Following Balfour's communication to his superiors of Whyte's request
                    for a copy of the lecture, the Foreign Office replied to the Ministry of Information: "This
                    proposal has been carefully considered here, but the opinion is that it is so difficult to keep
                    secret the real authorship of a magazine article or pamphlet, that it would probably be undesirable
                    to incur the risk which publication might involve."6 Another Foreign
                    Office member wrote Balfour saying: "I feel sure that after a time it would be known that
                    you had written it, and as you have had to criticise in some respects—though mildly and
                    good-naturedly—a friendly but touchy people, I cannot help thinking that it would be
                    taking a risk. I should be inclined to let the Ministry of Information have a copy for internal use
                        only."7 And with that decision the document was placed among the
                    British government's closed archives until the papers for this period were declassified and
                    finally made available in 1970. After a delay of thirty-five years Balfour's lecture can
                    now be published. Its value for the students of British and American history in the interwar years
                    is manifest in the number of insights to be found in the lecture which follows.
            
               
                  5 Foreign Office Minute, September 19, 1939, ibid.
               
               
                  6 F. R. Gowell, 
                            London
                         Foreign Office, to Sir Frederick Whyte, Ministry of Information, October 16, 1939,
                            ibid.
               
               
                  7 Foreign Office Minute, September 20, 1939, ibid.
               
            
            
            
                    AMERICAN CHARACTERISTICS1
               
                
            As I see it the destiny of the 
                        United States
                     has been determined in the first instance by the fact that, until the recent past at
                    any rate, America has been regarded by Europeans as well as by its own inhabitants as a land of
                    promise. A variety of motives—religious persecution, political tyranny, the stress of
                    economic want, and the spirit of pure adventure—were responsible for successive waves of
                    emigration to the New World. There were also profound differences in the type of
                    immigrant—between the original English 
                        Puritan
                    , Dutch, and German settlers of pre-revolutionary days, the Irish of the early XIXth
                    century, the Germans and Scandinavians of the later period and the still later influx of Eastern and
                    Southern Europeans. But whatever the motives which determined these movements and however little
                    each crop of new arrivals might resemble its predecessor, it is safe to say that the hope of a freer
                    and better life overseas for the individual emigrant was the main incentive underlying the exodus
                    from Europe towards the shores of North America.
            No approach to a proper understanding of what the 
                        United States
                     mean to-day can be made without an attempt to grasp the part which the hope of a better
                    and freer life for the individual in the land of promise has played as a recurrent theme in the
                    chequered course of American history. The persistence of this ideal is, I submit, primarily due to
                    the two following causes: the absence of class distinction and geography. With few exceptions the
                    first generations of settlers no less than the immigrants of later times, were recruited from middle
                    and lower class stock. Social distinctions might, and indeed did, subsist among the North American
                        
                  
                     1 This lecture, designated as paper number 4272, is in the 
                                London
                             Public Records Office, Foreign Office General Correspondence File 391, volume
                            22814. In the typed copy of the lecture which was placed in the foreign office files and
                            which has been used for this transcription, Balfour numbered each paragraph. These numbers
                            have here been omitted. When quotations extended beyond one line in the original typescript,
                            additional quotation marks were placed at the beginning of each new line. These superfluous
                            marks have also been omitted as have the words typed at the bottom of each page which were
                            repeated on the next page. Otherwise, vagaries of spelling, capitalization, and paragraphing
                            have been followed exactly as in the original typed manuscript. A [sic]
                            has been used to indicate errors only if it was felt that confusion might result concerning
                            whether the mistakes were editorial, authorial, or typographical.
               
                     colonies as they progressed towards ordered communities, and an
                    expedition to 
                        Mount Vernon
                     or 
                        Monticello
                    , the Georgian mansions of 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson, suffices to show the visitor to the 
                        United States
                     how far the revolution owed its success to the leadership of well-to-do and cultivated
                    country gentlemen. But the tradition which formed the minds of the fathers of the republic was not
                    that of a feudal and privileged aristocracy. The newcomers to the North American continent found a
                    wilderness to subdue and the process of hacking out homes for themselves from the primeval forests
                    caused class barriers to be levelled away if only because free land was to be obtained for the
                    effort and the scarcity of hired labour raised the relative position of the worker. In the northern
                    colonies at any rate the self-respect of the individual was also enhanced by the prevailing 
                        Puritan
                     code with its assertion that those who practised it belonged to a chosen race. It thus
                    came about that long before the War of Independence the plain man had been able to assert himself in
                    the affairs of his local community to a degree which would not have been possible in XVIIIth century 
                        England
                    , and that the seeds of a self-governing democracy based upon the consent of the
                    governed were already firmly planted on American soil.
            With the Declaration of Independence of 1776, the hard-won struggle for freedom which followed it,
                    and the promulgation of the Constitution of 1787, the Americans awoke to a conscious knowledge of
                    their new found heritage. "We hold these truths to be self-evident" runs the
                    Declaration of Independence, "that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by
                    their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that amongst these are life, liberty and the pursuit
                    of happiness". Every American schoolboy is made aware of this proposition and is taught
                    that the 
                        United States
                     exists, not as a mystic entity floating above his head, but for the rational purpose of
                    defending the rights of man in accordance with the provisions for ensuring the equality of all
                    citizens which the founders of the Republic embodied in a written document.
            Although not immediately relevant in the present connexion I would at this point draw attention to
                    two characteristics of the Constitution which have a bearing on the attitude of the 
                        United States
                     Government both in external and internal affairs. In the first place the delegates to
                    the Constitutional  Convention of 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1787 were concerned to win the adherence of the smaller States of the Commonwealth
                    to a federal system. Whilst in the Lower House of Congress representation is based solely on
                    population, the framers of the Constitution thus found it necessary to recognise the theoretical
                    equality of the various States by limiting the representation of each of them in the Senate to two
                    members. The Senators, who in virtue of a 1913 amendment are elected direct by the people, must
                    consequently be regarded in the first instance as the guardians of States' rights; even now
                    they are jealous of any encroachment by the President on their privileges of local patronage, and
                    tend to approach federal problems with a critical detachment worthy of a foreign ambassador; they
                    are apt, however insignificant in population the State for which they sit, to place its particular
                    interests before those of the Union as a whole. A second and more serious defect from the point of
                    view of governmental efficiency and the purposeful conduct of foreign relations lies in the
                    so-called division of powers. In their anxiety to protect American liberties against any threat from
                    a domestic Caesar aiming at the kingly crown the Constitution-makers set up a system of checks and
                    balances which circumscribes the powers of the Executive. Occupying during his four year term of
                    office a position which in some respects approximates to that of a Dictator, the President, with a
                    Cabinet of his own choice functioning apart from Congress, is none the less fettered by the
                    legislature which can override his veto and ignore his recommendations. In foreign affairs the
                    consent of two-thirds of the Senate is necessary for the ratification of treaties, and, apart from
                    the particularist tendency of the Senators already noted, the President must reckon with obstruction
                    to his policies by members of his own party in the House of Represenatives [sic]
                    over whom he cannot exercise the strict discipline which our parliamentary system ensures to the
                    Prime Minister of the day. The method of election of Congressmen in any case makes of them little
                    more than the obedient delegates of the sectional interests which they represent. Lastly, by its
                    power to decide whether a legislative statute offends against the Constitution, the Supreme Court,
                    as President [Franklin D.] Roosevelt himself at one time found to his cost, is provided with a
                    weapon which can seriously impede the plans of the Executive as approved by Congress.
            
            To return now to our central theme: if America had not in fact been a land of promise, the ideal of a
                    freer and better individual life might have withered and died. The frontier, or rather a succession
                    of frontiers, guaranteed that there should be no lack of opportunity for the individual to realise
                    his dream. It is easy to single out one phenomenon in the history of a nation and to make it
                    responsible for the behaviour of the people who compose it. If, however, for no other reason than
                    that popular sentiment in the 
                        United States
                     is still inclined to regard the small farmer as the essential Uncle Sam, we do not go
                    far astray if we assign to the influence of the frontier a large part in moulding the character of
                    the American and in determining his attitude towards the outside world. The quest for land and
                    prosperity which, until the last decades of the XIXth century impelled the trek forwards to the West
                    in search of new horizons, has left a fever in the American's blood which still stirs him
                    to raw emotion. The conditions in which the pioneers' lot was cast in any case made for the
                    adoption of clear-cut standards of moral conduct devoid of complicated half-tones. In the great open
                    spaces men were indeed men, to be judged by their ability to dominate the rude forces of nature. In
                    almost all sections of North America nature herself inclines to extremes. The 
                        United States
                     extend over a continent of dazzling light and sharp shadows, of drought and
                    overwhelming flood, of sunshine and violent storm, which, because of these sudden changes and for
                    some other mysterious tonic quality inherent in the climate, tends to produce a high nervous tension
                    in the living beings who inhabit it. The paramount need of conquering the wilderness and of ensuring
                    its rapid development to ordered prosperity, combined with the very size of the country itself,
                    caused the pioneer to attach particular importance to the quantitative measure of value. The
                    frontier period, which reached its heyday between the years 1830 and 1880, thus saw the birth of the
                    American conception of "bigger and better elephants" with its corollary of
                    "boosting"—a method of advertisement conducive to the rapid growth of
                    the animals. From this period too can be derived American restlessness, which at worst expresses
                    itself to-day in a shiftless disregard of surroundings and an unwillingness to "stay
                    put"—I myself have seen a house complete with its owners moving down a
                    Californian  high road—and at best in an eagerness to
                    acquire new experience and enlarge the boundaries of knowledge. The American is athirst for
                    knowledge and to-day, when hitherto accepted values are being put to the test, this inherited
                    characteristic may lead to the garnering of a plentiful harvest in the field of learning. The
                    craving of the pioneer for news to break the monotony of his daily toil, his lack of a desire for
                    privacy in circumstances where privacy was unavailable, his enforced concentration on the task
                    immediately to hand, his energy and self-reliance, his disposition as a small town dweller to
                    mistrust the motives of those whose intellectual and social background differed from his
                    own—all these frontier traits have left their mark on the modern American. Although it
                    may sound far-fetched I would also suggest that the sentimental streak in many Americans derives
                    from these earlier days when 
                        Puritan
                     emotion was like a rough hatchet and lacked the keener edge of intellect.
            Contrary to what is sometimes argued I do not think that the lawlessness which has been so prevalent
                    in the 
                        United States
                     was primarily due to frontier conditions. Lynchings where the citizen took the law into
                    his own hand, may have first become a practice on the frontier and they gained an evil notoriety as
                    a result of the clandestine activities of the Ku Klux Klan during the period of misrule in the
                    Southern States by northern "carpet-baggers", poor-white
                    "scalawags", and negroes which followed the Civil War. But, no less than murders,
                    mob riots and other deeds of violence, lynchings are to be found with increasing frequency
                    throughout America from about 1830 onwards. This sinister blemish on the national life is the
                    obverse side to the medal of individual freedom. A readiness to disregard the law, and particularly
                    bad laws, of which prohibition provided the shining latter-day example, was imbued in a people who
                    had rebelled against the inconvenient decrees of an absentee king and parliament. The very
                    insistence of American political philosophy upon the rights of the individual was an incentive to
                    the citizen to evade the more unpleasant duties which his lawgivers prescribed, and to the latter to
                    refrain from insisting upon their performance. The absorbing passion for money-making, as the
                    material evidence of success of which I shall speak later, proved an even more potent factor in
                    lowering the respect of the average American for the law.  In
                    the land of promise, where wealth spelt power and opportunity, and optimism was in the air as well
                    as in the blood, the rich man was none too scrupulous as to the means employed to augment his
                    fortune. His facilities for wrongdoing were enhanced as a result of the spoils system which, by
                    entrusting the administration of justice to political placemen, rendered the courts amenable to
                    graft and corruption. When himself engaged in thwarting the law for the sake of piling up his
                    capital it was only natural that he should turn a blind eye to the delinquencies of those less
                    favoured than himself, who in turn lacked the restraining influence of a better example. The
                    congregating in mushroom cities of immigrant elements belonging to the lowest strata of society also
                    offered a fruitful soil for a brand of crime which has added the words "gangster"
                    and "racketeer" to the English vocabulary. We may, I suggest, ascribe the blame
                    for this unhappy state of affairs, which is already in process of disappearance, to the growing
                    pangs of industrial youth and to the state organisation of justice rather than to frontier
                    conditions. In saying this I would not for a moment deny that there is much more than a grain of
                    truth in the movie screen portrayal of the wild and woolly west, and that, owing to the starved
                    character of the surroundings, the repressed emotions of the frontier dwellers were liable to find
                    an outlet in indiscriminate acts of violence and in orgies of evangelical fervour. But on the whole
                    the average pioneer was a hardworking honest and Godfearing individual; the product of a strenuous
                    open air life where everything of importance to him, with the exception of his wife and his
                    religion, was self-made. As a last tribute to the frontier period I would, pace
                    the Hollywood blonde and the 
                        New York
                     glamour debutante, date to the woman of frontier days some of the more commendable
                    qualities of her modern American sister—her self-reliance, practical good sense and
                    never-failing kind-heartedness, her complete indifference to artificial airs and
                    graces—tempered withal by a tendency to gossip and pry into her neighbours'
                    affairs.
            When I was in the 
                        United States
                     between 1924 and 1928 the homelier virtues of the pioneers were somewhat at a discount
                    amongst the inhabitants of the eastern seaboard (I have used the word "homely" in
                    its English sense and not in its American and Scottish connotation of an ugly female).  Generally speaking all eyes were then fixed upon the astonishing
                    results of mass production and standardised methods. Even the older stock of New Englanders who,
                    thanks to a deeply ingrained tradition, have preserved intact a happy blend of puritanism and of the
                    mellow culture of middle XIXth century 
                        Boston
                    , had to some extent succumbed to the prevailing belief in unending material
                    progress—were they not reassured by the presence in the White House of Calvin Coolidge,
                    himself the quintessence of rural Massachussetts [sic] canniness? In
                    those halcyon days it was thought that high wages and jobs for all had come to stay; economics and
                    Mr. Ford had decreed that prices in Wall Street would soar to ever higher levels; the millennium of
                    eternal riches had at last dawned. In point of fact, as is now known in the light of bitter
                    retrospect, the 
                        United States
                     with a frontier which had reached the limits of its expansion in 1890, restricted
                    immigration, foreign debtors and an economy partly dependent upon world markets, were gathering the
                    Dead Sea fruit of a post-war boom. Little though they recked it at the time, the gospel of rugged
                    individualism preached so confidently by the prophets of that hardboiled period had lost its motive
                    power with the passing of the golden age of unbounded opportunity. Whereas prosperity before 1914
                    had been real prosperity based on the creation of new values prosperity during and after the War was
                    illusory; it proceeded from non-productive investment and from the manipulation of values
                    degenerating into a fever of speculation.
            This brings me to the influence of business on the American character. It is not my purpose when
                    discussing this question to dwell in detail, even if I felt qualified to do so, upon the growth of
                    industrial America which at an ever-accelerating pace proceeded side by side with the opening up of
                    the continent. The stupendous scope of its achievement is revealed by the cloud-capped forest of
                    skyscrapers which greets the traveller on his arrival at 
                        New York
                     harbour. It seems evident, however, that the same causes which rendered possible the
                    persistence of the ideal of a better and freer individual life operated to favour the accumulation
                    of vast fortunes in the hands of enterprising business men. The size of the 
                        United States
                     and the absence of any insurmountable class barriers intensified the competition to get
                    rich quick, and from the late eighteen-twenties onwards the opportunity  for success was progressively enhanced by the opening up of the
                    frontier, the increase in the population, the intensive exploitation of natural resources and the
                    development of manufacturing and machinery. The race to capture the glittering prizes which were
                    open to all accounts for some of the less creditable aspects of American public life. The expansion
                    of big business the world over has been characterised by a certain ruthlessness of method and by a
                    spirit of the devil take the hindmost. I have already alluded to the unscupulousness [sic] of the American man of affairs when commenting upon lawlessness in the 
                        United States
                    . The industrial revolution in 
                        England
                     also saw the rise to power of a new class of merchant princes, railway magnates and
                    factory owners whose standard of conduct was by no means always above reproach. But in the feudal
                    society to which success gradually gave them entrance the possession of wealth was associated with
                    the ownership of landed property carrying with it a sense of responsibility on the part of the rich
                    man towards his dependants and a tradition of service towards the State. Whatever the defects of the
                    aristocratic system, the idea that money-making was intrinsically virtuous formed no part of it, and
                    the nouveau riche was concerned to accept the outlook of his betters if only for
                    the sake of gaining their good opinion. In the 
                        United States
                     no such consideration was present. It is true that, albeit on the basis of slave
                    labour, the life of the Southern planter was in many respects akin to that of the English Country
                    gentleman, but although cotton from the plantation estates fostered the growth of the New 
                        England
                     textile mills, the type of civilisation for which their owners stood was antagonistic
                    to that of the industrial north, and with the defeat of the Southern States and the economic ruin of
                    their landed gentry, this leavening factor ceased to play any part in the development of the 
                        United States
                    .
            If we are to understand the spirit in which the American approached the business of money making in
                    the Land of Promise, we must realise that the 
                        United States
                     were not only Protestant in their religion and social outlook, but predominantly
                    Calvinistic. The duty of the individual, so ran the Calvinist doctrine, was not to concentrate upon
                    himself but rather to co-operate in furthering the will of God in this world. It was the essence of
                    Calvinism to unite religion and daily life by teaching that the better the faithful performed  their daily task, the more they worked for the glory of God.
                    From this conception of work as a religious duty, it was only a step to the thesis that money making
                    was in itself a moral act which justified the aims of the person engaged in it, regardless of how
                    the act was performed and of its wider social implications. This thesis, with the resulting
                    confusion in the scale of ethical values which it involved, would not perhaps have gained such a
                    hold on the mind of many Americans had it not been for the emphasis which public opinion necessarily
                    laid upon the need for the speedy development of the 
                        United States
                    . The man who went into business was contributing to the national welfare: in the
                    process of amassing a fortune for himself he was enlarging the field of opportunity for his fellow
                    citizens by building up the means of production, and was in consequence performing a patriotic
                    service. What more natural therefore, in circumstances where everything desirable seemed to depend,
                    and to a great extent really did depend, upon the steady and rapid increase in size, than that
                    efficiency and vitality in business should come to be regarded as Christian virtues and that the
                    riches of the successful business man should appear to be sanctified by the approbation of Divine 
                        Providence
                    ?
            In thus trying to analyse why the worship of material success became embedded in the American scheme
                    of things, I do not wish to overstress the seamier side of my subject. Indeed, in the pursuit of
                    success, it should be noted that money was seldom regarded as an end in itself. During my four years
                    experience of the 
                        United States
                    , I personally never heard a rich man boast of his wealth—excepting a
                    picturesque old Irish American who once declared to me with gusto that he could buy up the Vatican
                    with all its contents. Money-making was a glorious game of chance in which luck tended to favour the
                    devotee endowed with the greatest skill and ability. My real interest is in fact not so much in the
                    phenomenon as in the reasons for it—the Calvinist outlook and the existence of an equal
                    chance for all to get rich in a new country of vast opportunity, which alongside with the pioneer
                    spirit lie at the root of much that is otherwise inexplicable in the 
                        United States
                    . All three factors have in one form or another played their part in moulding the
                    peculiar structure of American political and social life. We have seen that in drawing up the
                    Constitution, the fathers of the Republic  were concerned to
                    found the future of the State upon the principle of the rights of man to which the inhabitants of
                    the thirteen Colonies had already given concrete expression. Thanks to this rational basis the state
                    in America, in direct antithesis to the totalitarian creed of present day 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Italy
                    , was not called upon to function as a self-contained organism. The Federal Government,
                    in which were vested strictly limited powers, was primarily created as a matter of practical
                    convenience for administering to the welfare of the community at large whenever the latter required
                    its services; the legislatures of the individual States of the Union enacted laws to regulate the
                    daily lives of the people, and the whole fabric was the reflection of the popular will and designed
                    for the specific purpose of expressing it. Excepting however on the issue of slavery, which divided
                    the country into well-defined units, the very size of the continent precluded the evolution of
                    parties with programmes which would adequately satisfy the needs of the various regions. Unless he
                    voices the will of the people, the President himself, however forceful his personality, cannot
                    impose his dictates upon the party machine whose platform is inevitably reduced to the least common
                    denominator. The party machine itself exists as a practical means of ensuring success to the
                    sectional groups who choose to make use of it. It follows that it is to the associations formed by
                    these sectional groups to promote their interests that we must look for the mainspring of political
                    influence in the 
                        United States
                    . They, and not the traditional political parties are the real generators of political
                    action; it is through them and their swarm of lobbyists in 
                        Washington
                     that the business of government is directed. As Andre Siegfried well puts it in his
                    book "America comes of Age" 
                        "The system extends from the smallest county, through the State capitals, right up
                            to the Federal government. We find them at every turn, formulating new laws, overseeing the
                            wording of the text, and controlling votes in Congress. They bring constant pressure to
                            bear, both indirect and direct; so the politician has no possible means of escape. Not
                            merely do they get the laws passed, but they see to it that they are applied, and so carry
                            out the maxim of Thiers: 'Un ordre donné dont on ne surveille pas
                            l'exécution est un ordre vain' ".2
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  2 Andre Siegfried, America Comes of Age: A French
                        Analysis, translated by H. H. Hemming and Doris Hemming (
                            New York
                        , 1927), 253-54.
            
            
            As the best energies of the Americans were absorbed by production, politics could never be more than
                    a secondary pursuit. In the era of rugged individualism, the moral if not the material foundations
                    of which were swept away in the economic collapse of 1929, the business men who, broadly speaking,
                    comprised almost the entire electorate of the prosperous classes, were content to allow their
                    governments— Federal, State and Municipal—to be run by a class of hired
                    politicians so as to leave themselves free to follow more lucrative callings. Public service, which
                    according to the Calvinist conception required that the individual should fulfill the will of God by
                    devoting himself to the good of the community, was synonymous with a business career. Salesmanship
                    was more important than statesmanship. This outlook, combined with the spoils system, to the evil
                    effects of which I have alluded in relation to the application of the law, accounts for many of the
                    abuses that have disfigured American public life. It was, so ran the argument of the rich man, the
                    function of Government and of the successful office-seekers who administered its decrees to assist
                    him in developing the country's resources; if normal methods of persuasion failed, the lure
                    of mammon would ease the conscience of the State legislator. The oil scandals of the Harding regime,
                    where members of the Cabinet were proved to have sold themselves to corrupt financiers, marked the
                    high water mark of this era, but the notion of graft is too deeply interwoven with the American
                    public system to be easily eradicated. In the great cities teeming with immigrant workmen providing
                    the cheap labour material for the capitalist, enterprising and unscrupulous politicians could
                    emulate the business magnates by acquiring power for themselves as the bosses of the local
                    machine— marshalling the votes of the illiterate and alien-born masses, to capture and
                    often to demoralise municipal government. A history could be written of the immoral tactics employed
                    by these organisations, of which Tammany Hall is the outstanding example. Although municipal reform
                    is gaining headway, the machines are still a power in American politics and the enquiring student
                    can find an illuminating account of them in D. W. Brogan's book on the "American
                    Political System."3
            
            
               
                  3 Denis W. Brogan, The American Political System (
                            London
                        , 1933).
            
            
            This system, which I have attempted to describe in outline, would not perhaps have worked had it not
                    been for the fact that until 1890 the unlimited areas of free land available for settlers simplified
                    the task of Government and that the American in any case has a genius for spontaneous co-operation.
                    Quite apart from the fact that from the Calvinist point of view the group and not the individual is
                    the social unit and the foundation of the religious structure, the idea of collaborating with others
                    is in harmony with the natural bent of the American's inclination. He takes to the
                    community spirit like a duck to water, is gregarious by temperament and at his happiest in a noisy
                    crowd. How vast a difference there is between the aloofness of the Englishman coldly buried in his
                    "Times" in club or railway carriage and the American with his enlivening
                    "I'm pleased to meet you" and "How are you feeling
                    brother?" The words "cordial" and "informal"
                    which spring to the American's lips express a warmth of democratic spirit towards his
                    fellow-men which his behaviour does not belie. If his approach to them sometimes strikes the
                    foreigner as unduly hearty he is punctilious to a fault, and in comparison the Englishman sometimes
                    appears off-handed and even rude. His hospitality is as large as his heart and he asks for nothing
                    in return. Like every other human quality these pleasing and almost never failing traits in the
                    American character are something which defy analysis. If, however, I may hazard an opinion as to the
                    herd instinct which exists so strongly in the 
                        United States
                    , I would suggest that it is in part at any rate derived from the conditions of the
                    frontier period. At that stage in the country's development the man who joined a community
                    and did his best to hasten its growth was not only an added unit in a population which might have
                    been just as happy and prosperous without his presence; he was regarded as contributing to the
                    prosperity and as furthering the ambitions of every other member. The hard life on the frontier also
                    favoured the survival of the individual who was best adapted to make his own personality subservient
                    to the common good. The successful man set the tune to others and in a community where the people
                    were as busy as bees in finding new outlets for wealth there was no place for the sensitive
                    introvert and unkindly critic. Religion and education were pressed into the service of community
                    development—the former, as  we have seen, by exalting
                    production as an ideal—in my time in the 
                        United States
                     one preacher went so far as to assert that Christ was the super-salesman of
                    history—and the other by tending to concentrate upon the teaching of subjects which make
                    for a successful business career. Brought up in such an atmosphere the average American, who because
                    of his fundamental honesty is usually acutely aware of his own shortcomings and almost pathetically
                    responsive to the praise of foreigners whom he is ready with however little justification to credit
                    with superior qualities, would naturally prefer to associate with his fellow-men rather than to
                    reflect in a solitude for which he is ill-adapted. For purely utilitarian reasons he can welcome the
                    company of a stranger as a means of obtaining new 'reactions',
                    'view-points' and 'angles' bearing upon his personal problems.
                    It may even lead to his securing valuable business contacts. Whilst there have been many exceptions
                    to the rule—and a galaxy of living authors in the 
                        United States
                     both critical and creative, reinforced by innumerable students eager for knowledge of
                    every description, would seem to hold out the promise of a New World Renaissance in
                    thought—American culture has proved on the whole to be extensive rather than
                    intensive—it resembles a river in full flood spreading over acres of virgin soil rather
                    than a deep lake hemmed in by rocks of ancient geological formation.
            Just as success on the frontier demanded the creation of bigger and better elephants so the rise of
                    big business encouraged the expansion of the beasts to mammoth size. Success in business required
                    expert organisation, the canalisation of effort, the establishment of large-scale undertakings to
                    ensure that men were not worsted by their rivals and that the best possible advantages could be
                    derived from the vast potentialities of consumer demands. Other countries in the new economic age
                    came to grapple with the same problems of big business organisation, but the captains of industry in
                    the 
                        United States
                     headed this march of progress with their Corporation trusts, giant mergers, controlled
                    banks, and horde of lawyers versed in the art of circumventing the law. Apart from the exercise of
                    pressure on government already noted, the need for increased profits and ensuring a ready domestic
                    market for standardised products, led to the development of high power salesmanship, or what is
                    termed  "public relations", and the whole
                    technique of advertisement for which a press, largely controlled by big business, and later still
                    the radio, provided the requisite medium. The art of ideal salesmanship has familiarised us with
                    such terms as "pep", "punch", "go-getter",
                    "he-man", "redblood" and "good mixer". In
                    parenthesis I should point out that the consequences of the machine-made age were not all on the
                    moral debit side. However callous in the conduct of his affairs, the Captain of Industry normally
                    remained a kindly and unselfish person in private life. What he might do as a man and what he might
                    do as a business man bore little relation to one another. The fortune he had amassed was there to
                    spend; it not merely provided means for his wife and daughters to acquire luxeries [sic], but also enabled his home to be beautified. The later generation of multi-millionaires
                    went further and endowed their country-men with educational and social welfare institutions and with
                    collections of art treasures which are the wonder of the world. I am not amongst those who think
                    that the migration of artistic works to America is a thing to be regretted.
            It would seem to stand to reason that a public incessantly deluged with mass-produced propaganda and
                    slogans should itself tend to exhibit somewhat mass-produced emotions of a character appropriate to
                    the aims of those who sought to arouse them. In the 
                        United States
                     this ambition for converting bigger and better elephants into mammoths falls upon a
                    public avid for sensation as a relief to its somewhat cramped outlook and highly susceptible to
                    appeals based upon mass psychology. The power of the press and radio in the 
                        United States
                     is however a debatable point and I should hesitate to express a definite opinion on so
                    thorny a subject. In so far as they are able to tell the public exactly what they wish them to know,
                    their power for misrepresentation is incalculable. In the international field, no less than in the
                    narrower sphere of domestic news, the tendency of the agents of publicity is to pander to the
                    appetite for sensation of a people prone to exaggeration. But public opinion in the 
                        United States
                     is an incalculable thing—swayed on occasions by sudden emotional outbursts
                    sweeping the country like a prairie fire, whilst normally only responsive to the secondary interests
                    which govern daily life. It is moreover a baffling paradox that in a land that displays a greater
                    uniformity in  its language, habits, and daily routine than any
                    other comparable area in the world the average man should none the less possess a sense of his own
                    individual importance and a disposition to interpret events and information after his own
                    independent fashion and with a directness of intuition disconcerting to the European. The word
                    "debunking" best expresses this process and woe betide the individual or
                    institution which is subjected to it! Incidentally I suspect that an eagerness to debunk
                    himself and others accounts for much of the peculiarly invigorating flavour of the
                    American's humour—its shrewd realism and enormous sense of the ridiculous,
                    beside which the Englishman's quiet innuendoes and revelling in the sheer delight of pure
                    nonsense appear like the antics of a Lilliput in the land of Brobdingnag. However this may be, the
                    full force of propaganda to some extent loses its effect and as American public opinion is a
                    volatile substance, the citizen, whose reflexes tend in any case to be dulled by the constant
                    bludgeoning to which they are subjected, quickly tires of the sensation of the moment and is off on
                    the trail of fresh emotional experiences.
            It would be altogether mistaken to suppose that because the rhythm of life in America moves along
                    uniform lines the temperament of the inhabitants is drab and lacking in zest for variety. On the
                    contrary the average American, who takes pride in performing his work and values activity for its
                    own sake, possesses a spontaneous capacity for enjoyment, and if the range of pleasures offered to
                    him conforms to a standardised pattern, he does not enter into them with less enthusiasm on that
                    account. Leaving aside petting parties and the pictures, let us glance for a moment at some of the
                    varied pursuits which cater for the restlessness in our hero's blood. Does he seek
                    relaxation in make-belief from the drab round of his daily business? He can 'get
                    together' with his brother braves in the Lodge-night mysteries of his own peculiar order or
                    ritual, whether it be the Elks, Oddfellows, Knights of Pythias, Loyal Order of Buffaloes, Shriners,
                    Cedars of 
                        Lebanon
                    , Knights of 
                        Columbus
                    , Sachems, Sagamores or Wiskinskies, disguise himself in fantastic apparel and swear
                    awful oaths of secrecy. Does he feel the ancestral urge to better the life of the
                    community? He can 'join up' with one of the local branches in his home
                    town of the innumerable moral uplift societies which besprinkle the country,  such as the National Civic Service Reform League, the National
                    Committee on Prisons and Prison Labour, the Free Press Defence League, the Physicians Protective
                    Association, the League for the Preservation of American Independence, the National Committee for
                    Soldiers and Sailors Relief, or the National Committee to secure rank for Army nurses. Is his spirit
                    moved with a craving to revive the ardours and adventures of frontier days and to resavour the
                    kinship of the caravan camp-fire? He can repair to the nearest golf course and there,
                    arrayed in plus-four of portentous dimensions and gayly coloured woolen stockings, pick his path as
                    best he may from one predestined goal of green turf to the other, returning afterwards to the
                    friendly pow-wow of the club-house to learn from his brethren how they have fared in their
                    cross-country trek, over flatlands, between hazards, 'through bog, through bush, through
                    brake, through brier'.4 Is he bitten with the travel bug? He
                    can embark on his Ford V 8 and drive to the neighbouring small town, stop off there to liquor up and
                    exchange wise-cracks with his friends, replenish his car with gasoline at the filling station and so
                    home to bed. Or, if his means and affairs permit, he can clamber with his wife and family on to the
                    European band wagon, hustling according to schedule from museum to hotel and from hotel to museum,
                    indulging to his heart's content that sense of moral superiority inherited from his
                    ancestors. It's a grand life!
            In thus selecting for the hero of my excursions into the realms of 'uplift' golf
                    and 'old world charm' a citizen of pioneer ancestry, I have not over-looked the
                    fact that millions of inhabitants of the 
                        United States
                     do not hail from this stock. To the older breed of American, who is abnormally
                    sensitive to criticism by foreigners owing to his suspicion that they regard themselves as superior
                    beings, there are few things more galling than to be badly reminded by a tactless Englishman that,
                    whereas the population of Great Britain is largely homogenous, the people of the 
                        United States
                     are composed of heterogeneous elements derived from a variety of races whose migration
                    to the New World is often of comparatively 
                  
                     4 Balfour is taking liberties with a quotation from William
                            Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream. The actual
                            quotation, from Act II, Scene I, reads: "Over hill, over dale, / Through bush,
                            through brier, / Over park, over pale, / Through flood, through fire."
               
                     recent date. Intolerant by nature of alien ideas and influences
                    and mistrustful of the foreigner's motives, the American of this type is apt to look with
                    distaste upon the latest arrivals on the American scene and to label them, including the tenderfoot
                    "limey" from 
                        England
                    , with terms of opprobium [sic] such as "wops",
                    "dagoes", and "polaks". A negro is a 'good
                    nigger' provided he keeps his place. This means everywhere that he should not compete with
                    white labour and that in the Southern States he must resign himself to exclusion from the vote, an
                    arrangement brought about by various expedients designed to defeat the 15th Constitutional amendment
                    which gave the franchise to the blacks. In a sense our Anglo-Saxon American is right to react in
                    this manner. It is perfectly understandable that newly-arrived immigrants or elements which cannot
                    be fully assimilated should be held at arms length. To this day there is a social ban on the two
                    million Jews in 
                        New York
                     City, in spite of the great wealth of some of their leaders and their influence in the
                    banking and newspaper world. It is also true that a surprising degree of success has attended the
                    process of assimilation known as the melting pot. Scientifically planned laws enacted in 1921 and
                    1924 have, moreover, excluded Asiatics and arrested the invasion of Roman Catholic Orthodox and
                    Jewish aliens from non-northern European countries which threatened at one time to overwhelm the
                    Protestant and Anglo-Saxon elements in the 
                        United States
                    . In his book "America Comes of Age", from which I have already quoted
                    Siegfried points out that in 1920 only 58 million out of the 95 million white inhabitants of the 
                        United States
                     were the children of American-born parents.5 It is an astonishing
                    tribute to the vitality of the Anglo-Saxon Americans that, aided no doubt by the radical change of
                    environment to which the immigrant was subjected and to his herd instinct to conform to the
                    community, they should have succeeded in blending into their social pattern such a medley of
                    ill-assorted races, to a degree which enables us to-day to pick out the average citizen of
                    God's own country from a bunch of "Snooty" Britishers or a gang of other
                    "lousy" foreigners, not merely by the cut of his clothes, but by his distinctive
                    facial appearance.
            
               
                  5 Siegfried, American Political System, 8.
            
            
            At the same time the ingredients in the melting pot have not merged into the body politic without
                    some modification in its quality. The "wop" and the "dago" may
                    change from bad Europeans into 100 per cent. Americans, but their new personality frequently lacks
                    the large-spirited generosity and unselfishness of the true Uncle Sam, whilst displaying his
                    intolerance and self-righteousness in an exaggerated form. Writing as a Roman Catholic Frenchman,
                    and before the full effect of the restriction laws had time to assert itself, Siegfried, who
                    discussed the assimilation problem in detail, tended perhaps to underrate the power of survival of
                    the Protestant Anglo-Saxons who until now have led the van of the country's progress and
                    have provided her with all her Presidents with the exception of three, and they, including the
                    present President, were of old Dutch extraction. Subject to the reservation I shall make later I
                    agree however with his conclusion that 
                        "The danger of a numerical inundation is past, and the declining birth rate does
                            away with any chance of over-population; yet from the point of view of the composition of
                            the race, it is quite a question whether the measures against foreign penetration have not
                            been taken too late, for these heterogeneous seeds will continue to grow once they have been
                            planted. We must not exaggerate the danger, however; for it is not a real menace to
                            civilization. All these foreigners will become Americanized, but they will not be
                            Anglo-Saxons; for Protestant America will not assimilate them."6
                  
                     I would qualify this judgment to the extent of pointing out that in the 
                        United States
                    , in rural areas as well as in great cities, there exist compact groups of
                    non-assimilated persons who, although they may have become American citizens and to some extent have
                    taken on the colour of their surroundings, are none the less foreigners within the gates and to all
                    intents and purposes national minorities. I have in mind, for example, the Swedish farmers of 
                        Minnesota
                    , the Poles of 
                  Massachusetts, Ohio
                and 
                        Illinois
                    , the widely dispersed Italian communities and the Welsh of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . All these groups, and others like them, have in one form or another retained the
                    habits of thought of their country of origin and it may take years or even generations before they
                    are truly Americanised.
            
               
                  6
                        Ibid., 129.
            
            
            Greatly aided by works of reference, and in particular by J. T. Adams' 'The Epic of
                    America' which thoroughly investigates this very question,7 I have now
                    completed as best I can my review of American characteristics. In attempting the task it has been my
                    object, with however little success, to arrive at the truth, obedient to the precept of Abraham
                    Lincoln "with malice toward none, with charity for all." If I have stumbled by the
                    wayside, it is due to the intricacies of the subject, my own shortcomings, and to the difficulties
                    of the foreigner confronted with the variegated scene which constitutes the 
                        United States
                     of America. As growth is the essence of countries no less than of individuals and has
                    burgeoned so abundantly in the springtide of American youth, it may be taken for granted that the
                    traits I have described have undergone some change in the decade of heart-searching which has
                    followed the economic collapse of 1929. The optimism and bumptiousness of the era of ballyhoo has
                    lost its buoyancy. But the down and out American, even if he has lost faith in the slogan of
                    "two cars in every garage and a chicken in every pot", still retains his belief in
                    the beneficience [sic] of Dame Fortune and pins his faith to a lucky break which
                    will lead him to the pot of gold at the rainbow's end. The rugged individualist sits back
                    and hopes that his turn will come again. In the meantime he has transferred his former hatred of the
                    Bolshevik to President Roosevelt. But even if, as is distinctly possible, the Republican Party to
                    which he belongs is returned to power at the next Presidential election, the old order has gone
                    perhaps never to return. With upwards of ten million unemployed the Government is undertaking the
                    task of financing enterprise and something akin to the paternalism so long familiar to the settled
                    communities of Europe is being substituted for the individualism which was hitherto the breath in
                    the nostrils of every American. In spite of the criticism levelled at the New Deal, it possesses
                    durable aspects which will survive its author: it has strengthened the power of Government in
                    relation to the vested interests and many minds in the 
                        United States
                     are now engaged in studying the problem of how to construct a new America on the basis
                    of modern scientific and technical knowledge. Amongst other questions which are being seriously
                    tackled 
                  
                     7 James Truslow Adams, The Epic of America (
                                Boston
                            , 1931).
               
                     for this purpose particular mention may be made of the
                    concerted efforts, already attended with great promise of success, to combat the devastating effects
                    of soil erosion—an evil legacy from the care-free past when the American pioneer farmer,
                    having extravagantly exploited the top soil of the land, advanced to new horizons—leaving
                    tracts of exhausted ground in his wake.
            In the international field the 'good neighbour' policy, a mild-mannered method of
                    promoting harmonious relations with the countries of Latin-America in which the 
                        United States
                     has always taken a keen and direct interest, would also appear to have come to stay. In
                    the attitude of the 
                        United States
                     to other regions isolationist sentiments remain as deep-rooted as ever. On the other
                    hand Americans are becoming conscious that they cannot afford to lose their economic stake in the
                    world and that it behoves them to make their country strong and self-reliant if it is to promote
                    peaceful intercourse between nations and to avoid the deadly consequences of the game of power
                    politics which is being played out elsewhere.
            Whatever the outcome of this testing time—and prophecy would be premature—it
                    seems certain that, as in the past, the main emphasis in American values will continue to be placed
                    not so much on abstract principles of justice and democracy, so dear to the lips of the politicians,
                    but upon the importance of the plain man and his right to enjoy his freedom and liberties in the
                    scheme of things. The 
                        United States
                     are not infected with the scepticism which comes from gazing too intently upon the
                    mysteries of an ancient past and the darkness of the present; the temperament of their people is
                    idealistic, intolerant of evil and confident that eternal good is mirrored in the heart of every
                    human being, no matter how vile he may be. This is the precious gift of America to mankind. It is
                    this faith, born in the dayspring of her youth, and reaffirmed by Lincoln on the battlefield of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , that hitches the future progress of America to the morning star. Judging from all that
                    is best in their people and past history, there can be no doubt that the destiny of the 
                        United States
                     is assured and that the roaring torrent of American life will sweep steadily forward
                    into deeper and everwidening channels of experience.
         
         
         
            
                    Book Reviews
                
            
               Democratic Opposition to the Lincoln Administration in Indiana. By Gilbert R.
                    Tredway. Indiana Historical Collections. Volume XLVIII. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1973. Pp. xv, 433. Illustrations, bibliography, notes,
                    index. $10.00.)
            This diligently researched study faces a hazard of its own making. Its substance may be overlooked or
                    discounted because of its obvious bias, polemical argumentation, and ungenerous treatment of fellow
                    historians. More than a decade after the publication of Frank L. Element's well received
                    study of midwestern Copperheads, and almost a quarter of a century since Kenneth Stampp began the
                    historiographic process of their redemption from the stigma of treason, there is no need to approach
                    the subject as the champion of a lost cause. There is even less reason to insist that rehabilitation
                    of the Democratic opposition must rest upon the transmutation of the Republican president into
                    "the man of blood and iron that was the true Lincoln nobody knows" (p. 277). And
                    in a 1973 publication, with an author's foreword dated July, 1972, and a final chapter that
                    includes a critique of Wood Gray, James G. Randall, Stampp, and Klement, there is no excuse for the
                    paucity of references to relevant scholarship published since 1960, particularly the omission of
                    work by V. Jacque Voegeli and Richard O. Curry.
            Tredway's methodology is traditional, but the intensity of his pursuit of evidence gives his
                    volume a distinctive character and scholarly significance. Particularly impressive is his use of
                    county newspapers, a number found only in county courthouses and local libraries. Whereas
                    Stampp's bibliography lists twenty-six newspaper files with seven covering the war years
                    beyond 1861, Tredway cites forty-three and thirty-two, respectively, including twenty-nine papers
                    used neither by Stampp, Gray, or Klement. Tredway has shown like industry in going beyond Benn
                    Pitman's published record of the 1864 treason trials to examine the original complete
                    transcripts, citing them extensively and making a comparative analysis of the two records. Footnotes
                    fill over 118 pages with their small but very readable print. Here is a book to be mined and
                    included on any shelf of Standard accounts of Civil War dissent.
            
            The most interesting aspect of Tredway's sympathetic treatment of Indiana Copperheads is
                    that his conclusions combine sturdy repudiation of the traditionalist view of Democratic dissent as
                    disloyalty with equally firm support for the existence of a treasonable "Northwest
                    Conspiracy." Moreover, he contends that there actually existed grave danger of a popular
                    insurrection. His evidence for the conspiracy is not based primarily upon the Thomas H. Hines and
                    John B. Castleman accounts that Klement and Curry have discredited. He finds conclusive a
                    combination of the testimony of responsible Democratic leaders, Confederate correspondence published
                    in Official Records of the War of the Rebellion and in a House of Representatives
                    report in 1866 on the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, and the Hines manuscripts in the University
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     Library. The Hines papers and the House report apparently have not heretofore been
                    examined in this connection.
            Tredway's view of the danger of popular uprising rests upon evidence of widespread and
                    potentially explosive hostility to the administration. He sees this as justified, arising from basic
                    wartime policies, the military record, and most especially the administration's use and
                    ideological defense of arbitrary arrests and military trials which threatened free institutions. The
                    spark for an explosion, he contends, could have been set off by arrest of Clement Vallandigham upon
                    his return from his enforced exile or by administrative interference with the Democratic nominating
                    convention or its delegates at 
                        Chicago
                    . Confederate agents and cooperating second string leaders of the secret societies were
                    on hand to exploit an outbreak, the latter intent not upon treason but upon protection of their
                    freedoms. One can be impressed with Tredway's argument and evidence without accepting his
                    belief that the Democratic view was fully justified or that Lincoln was quite capable of forcefully
                    interfering with free elections in the Midwest, and quite willing to do so, had his party required
                    such high handed action to insure victory in the 1864 elections.
            This study can serve a useful purpose but not by rekindling controversy over the existence of
                    conspiracy—all authorities are agreed that very few Democrats were involved in overtly
                    treasonable cooperation with the Confederates.  The
                    work's importance may rest upon what it contributes to an awareness that each side in the
                    northern "war within a war" was sustained by a sense of righteousness, that each
                    version of patriotism not only held elements of inexcusable partisanship, hysteria, and violence but
                    also contained a valid perception of national values. Sound historical scholarship does not convert
                    readily into an unambivalent morality play. Tredway's scholarship is sound even though his
                    righteous indignation is out of place in its company.
            
                    Hunter College and Graduate Center, City University of 
                            New York
                        
               
                
            LaWanda Cox
         
         
            
               Indiana Historical Society Lectures, 1972-1973: 1876, The Centennial Year. By
                    Lillian B. Miller, Walter T. K. Nugent, and H. Wayne Morgan. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1973. Pp. 58. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound,
                    $1.50.)
            This is a pleasant trio of lectures about the centennial celebrations of the 
                        United States
                     in 1876. Two are about the Centennial Exposition at 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; the third is a report on the state of American society on its hundredth birthday.
            The most substantial lecture is by Lillian B. Miller, historian of the National Portrait Gallery, and
                    is called "Engines, Marbles, and Canvases." According to Miller, nobody has ever
                    denied the splendor of the engines in Machinery Hall, but the marbles and canvases have been
                    dismissed as products of America's "Dark Ages." The American
                    contributions may have been too numerous and too indiscriminate, but Miller maintains that they do
                    not deserve the sneers they have received. While admitting that the Iolanthe
                    carved in butter and some other offerings were "ridiculous" (p. 6), she finds many
                    paintings worth attention. Americans excelled in landscape painting, and if they painted only the
                    surface of life, it was good to record that beautiful surface before it grew ugly. In short, the
                    centennial artists were perfectly respectable representatives of a developing tradition.
            Walter T. K. Nugent, the author of a previously published, short, lucid explanation of the debate
                    over gold, silver, and paper money (The Money Question during Reconstruction,
                    1967), is just the person to paint a portrait of America as the first centennial arrived. Congress
                    was already wrangling  over monetary standards and would do so
                    for twenty turbulent years. The country was in a depression, and in some places unemployed men had
                    used the gun and the club to intimidate their betters. Professor Nugent cites one surprising cause
                    of social disturbance: people moved a lot more then than now. About one half of all Americans
                    changed their place of living each year in the 1870s. Moreover, a large part of that moving
                    population was poor and not going anywhere but down. The problems of the modern world had begun.
                    Depression, corruption, and violence afflicted the country. The discredited administration of
                    Ulysses S. Grant presided over the republic. Despite this somewhat sordid picture Nugent throws no
                    stones at the leaders of the Gilded Age.
            The last contributor to this volume, H. Wayne Morgan, professor of history at the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                    , takes an equally kindly view of the period. His assessment of the lasting cultural
                    effects of the great Exposition may fill his readers with chagrin. The false starts and futile
                    fumblings of the Bicentennial Commission for 1976 do not indicate that Americans have lost the
                    ability to organize a colossal show but do suggest that they no longer know what they have to
                    celebrate or what they need to learn. Americans of 1876 were pretty sure about both. The Corliss
                    Steam Engine, the telephone, the typewriter, and the electric light bulb on display at 
                        Philadelphia
                     would clearly make life more comfortable, but leaders of thought wanted Americans to go
                    after the higher things of life. The simple words with which President Grant opened the fair are
                    enough to make one weep with envy: "Whilst proud of what we have done, we regret that we
                    have not done more" (p. 48). Humility in the White House! The glory of
                    it!
            
                    University of 
                            Maryland
                        , College Park
                
            Charlotte W. Smith
         
         
            
               The Unbounded Frame: Freedom and Community in Nineteenth Century American
                    Utopianism. By Michael Fellman. Contributions in American History, Number 26. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, Inc., 1973. Pp. xx, 203. Notes, selective bibliographical
                    essay, index. $10.00.)
            In the first half of the nineteenth century America was brimming with people searching for utopia.
                    Communitarians  like Josiah 
                        Warren
                     and John Humphrey Noyes built small communities where they and their followers could
                    experience utopia firsthand. Social reformers like Horace Mann believed that if one key institution,
                    as for example the educational system, could be perfected, all of America would become utopia.
            In The Unbounded Frame Michael Fellman attempts to explore these diverse beliefs.
                    Through a series of nine biographical essays he tries to show why utopianism flourished in America,
                    how it developed, and why it waned. "I have tried to enter the world of the
                    utopianists," Fellman writes, "both to exemplify their efforts to mold antebellum
                    America and to explore the general nature of the thought of the era" (p. xvii). This task
                    is a large and complex one. For Fellman, utopianism is a process concerned with correction of evil.
                    He theorizes that the actions of the utopianists grew out of their desire to apply some meaning to a
                    chaotic world. Such a definition, however, is applicable to a number of reform movements.
            Fellman maintains that one of the primary sources of Utopian thought and action was "that
                    deeply held, if sometimes buried, desire to frame a just American democratic life" (p. xx).
                    Fellman sees social reform and communitarian-ism as points on the same spectrum. "Utopian
                    communitarians," he writes, "were only further articulators of commonly held
                    intellectual positions in that era of what to many seemed limitless democratic
                    potentiality" (p. 62). This statement needs to be seriously questioned. Were the
                    communitarians and the social reformers really coming at the question of utopia from the same
                    direction ? Were the communitarians interested in the "limitless democratic
                    potentiality" of American society? Communal groups of religious origins, such as
                    the Shakers and the Rappites, were interested primarily in their own salvation. They believed that
                    that salvation could be attained through the perfectibility of their lives. Their social
                    organization was not democratic; instead it relied upon obedience to authority. Certainly the
                    religious communitarians were thankful for the atmosphere of American freedom, but they were not
                    particularly interested in guaranteeing its spread.
            It is evident that Fellman's biographical sketches are well researched. His treatment of
                    Isaac Hecker, founder of  the Paulists, is particularly good
                    because it connects Hecker's individual history and psychological makeup with his
                    subsequent beliefs, theories, and actions. Unfortunately, Fell-man's repeated attempts to
                    prove his thesis detract from his scholarship. In a comparison of Albert Brisbane, the chief
                    American disciple of Charles Fourier, and Josiah 
                        Warren
                    , the founder of individual anarchism in this country, Fellman writes: "Both
                    men assumed that a pattern of close personal relations would be at the root of
                    self-fulfillment" (p. 11). 
                        Warren
                    's philosophy, however, revolved around the belief that all interests between
                    individuals had to be disconnected if society were to run smoothly. No doubt 
                        Warren
                     would have been quite annoyed at the notion that he advocated "close personal
                    relations."
            
               The Unbounded Frame is a good source for understanding some of the more interesting
                    minds of the nineteenth century. However, the common thread of utopianism quickly becomes tangled,
                    and Fellman's thesis, perhaps because it was not valid to begin with, gets lost in that
                    tangle.
            
                    
                  
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo.
                
            Lori Breslow
         
         
            
               Mr. Polk's War: American Opposition and Dissent, 1846-1848. By John H.
                    Schroeder. (
                        Madison
                    : The University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1973. Pp. xvi, 184. Notes, illustrations, essay on sources, index.
                    $12.50.)
            One suspects that some who pick up this book, seeing just Mr. Polk's War
                    on its spine, will have no idea whatsoever of its contents. They must look to the subtitle, American Opposition and Dissent, 1846-1848, for enlightenment. The volume is a
                    scholarly examination of the protest movement (s) against the Mexican War, or, as it is known below
                    the Rio Grande, the North American Invasion. Its structure is basically chronological, cued
                    particularly to the wartime sessions of Congress, with coverage of dissent in the different sections
                    of the nation as it developed from political, religious, racial, economic, philosophical, and other
                    causes as well as chiefly from admixtures of varying, even contradictory, motives. The
                    book's main title, however, is appropriate to the outcome of the story: opposition and
                    dissent had almost no perceptible effect on the campaigns and results of America's first
                    "foreign" war as conducted by President James K. Polk.
            
            Americans have had good reason to be conscious of the problem of dissent in the last few years.
                    Several forces and conditions in the history of the 
                        United States
                     have brought dissent to the forefront in connection with the Korean intervention and,
                    even more notably, during the recent conflict in North 
                        Vietnam
                    . Such books as the present one are a natural, healthy, and useful result of the
                    contemporary historians' searching of the past in order to understand the present better
                    and to lift a corner of the curtain, possibly, for a hint about the future. The book has much to its
                    credit. It is a result of careful and extensive research; it is based on a practical plan to which
                    the author adheres without fanciful asides or unjustified extrapolations; and it is for the most
                    part clearly and concisely set forth. There are worthwhile footnotes, page by page, as well as a
                    good essay on sources, a helpful index, and a few reproductions of editorial cartoons to break up a
                    little of the visual monotony of pages of text.
            With all that said, however, this reviewer puts Schroeder's book down without any great urge
                    to thrust it upon friends and without an expectation of seeing it cited in the future except on very
                    specialized reading lists. It is a thoroughly commendable but modest first book, making no secret of
                    its origin as a doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                        Virginia
                    . It was in need of closer editorial attention than it received. In several passages,
                    for instance, the reader cannot tell whether Schroeder is paraphrasing his sources or showing his
                    own bias, rendering his own judgment.
            More basically, this book leaves the reader with the feeling of having examined only one side of the
                    coin, perhaps only the flawed and less significant side. The author recognizes but gives little
                    emphasis (pp. 162-63) to the fact that most Americans favored and supported, or certainly did not
                    oppose, the war. That it was in fact fought by volunteers and nondrafted regulars, including
                    thousands from New 
                        England
                     where opposition and dissent were strongest, is a matter of concern to the author only
                    as a source of frustration to dissenters. A general or full dimensioned study of public opinion on
                    the Mexican War and related issues would be very interesting and more significant than the present
                    volume. The author of this proposed book should use Schroeder's research techniques but try
                    harder to submerge his own bias.
            
                    The National Archives 
                            Washington
                        . D. C.
                
            John Porter Bloom
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume 5, April 1-August 31,
                    1862. Edited by John Y. Simon; assistant editor, Thomas G. Alexander. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1973. Pp. xxv, 458. Illustrations, notes, maps, index.
                    $15.00.)
            The period covered in this volume begins with the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     and ends with Ulysses S. Grant in his headquarters at Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    , commanding a widely scattered army in a hostile land and struggling to maintain his
                    lines of supply and communication. The story that unfolds includes some of the most important and
                    controversial issues of 
                        Shiloh
                    : the question of surprise and the acrimonious, post-battle debate in which northern
                    newspapers severely criticized Grant; Lewis Wallace's errant march which deprived Grant of
                    an entire division through the first day of fighting; and the failure of the Federals on the second
                    day to pursue the defeated Confederates, a boner which resulted in part from a faulty command
                    structure. Following the battle Henry W. Halleck appears on the field to lead the Union army
                    personally in an advance to Corinth that covered twenty miles in thirty days! Grant, then
                    a deputy of Halleck with no command at all, requests but fails to get a different assignment.
            Then comes a turning point in Grant's career. In June he returns to his original command
                    with headquarters in 
                        Memphis
                    , and in mid-July, when Halleck is appointed general-in-chief, Grant assumes command of
                    the vast area between the Tennessee and Mississippi rivers
                    northward to Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    . Now, in a country teeming with hostile citizens, guerrillas, and enemy cavalry, he
                    abandons his belief that one major battlefield victory can end the war in the West, for he has found
                    it necessary to stop southern trade with the North, suppress hostile newspapers, confiscate enemy
                    property, arrest and imprison civilians who aided or were suspected of aiding the Confederate cause,
                    and put southern Negroes to work for the Union. In short, he has found it necessary to do battle
                    with the people, to take important steps toward waging total war.
            To readers of Grant's Memoirs much of this is familiar, as are the
                    general's assessments of his principal associates— Halleck, Wallace, William T.
                    Sherman, Don Carlos Buell, John A. Rawlins, and many more. But what Grant wrote in  his Memoirs must be compared with what he wrote
                    during the war, for there are important differences, as the editor clearly indicates. Of course, the
                    person about whom these documents reveal most is Grant himself—the man and the army
                    commander—whose character, patterns of thought, decision making process, and prowess as a
                    military leader almost defy comprehension.
            The text consists of all of Grant's significant official and personal letters (including
                    eighteen previously unpublished letters to his wife), telegrams, reports, and general orders. They
                    are printed in full and appear in chronological sequence with related communications, explanatory
                    notes, two maps, five illustrations, a chronology, and a calendar containing other Grant documents.
                    The editing is truly professional, the notes are well prepared and informative, and the index is
                    superb. The editor, his assistant, and the Ulysses S. Grant Association merit congratulations for a
                    publication that is and will remain an indispensable contribution to American biography and history.
            
                    
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University, East Lansing
                
            Frederick D. Williams
         
         
            
               The Politics of Inertia: The Election of 1876 and the End of Reconstruction. By
                    Keith Ian Polakoff. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1973. Pp. xiv, 343. Notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $10.95.)
            Because the election of 1876 represented an important turning point in American history and was
                    marked by a dramatic electoral crisis, a substantial body of historical literature exists on the
                    subject. Historians have generally focused on the electoral controversy or treated the election in
                    the larger context of Reconstruction. In this book, Keith Ian Polakoff presents the first
                    comprehensive study of the actual campaign. The Politics of Inertia carefully
                    details the events leading to the respective nominations of Rutherford B. Hayes and Samuel J. Tilden
                    and the presidential campaign on both the national and state levels, as well as the ensuing
                    electoral stalemate and controversy.
            
            Although the author's main interest is the "configuration of power" (p.
                    xiii) in the political parties of the 1870s, Professor Polakoff attempts to refute C. Vann
                    Woodward's long standing explanation of the Compromise of 1877. Polakoff's thesis
                    is that the eventual settlement of the electoral controversy resulted directly from the nature of
                    party politics in the 1870s rather than from any secret political bargain between Republican leaders
                    and southern Democrats with "Old Whig" antecedents. The author argues that
                    eventually "the very inability of party leaders to control their own organizations, even in
                    a crisis demanding centralized direction, assured a pacific, if blundering, solution to the
                    electoral dispute" (p. x). Accordingly, the book includes an excellent analysis of party
                    structure and campaign techniques. Although his statement that "the major parties in the
                    nineteenth century had no national leaders" (p. x) is certainly much too sweeping a
                    generalization, Polakoff does demonstrate that the major parties of the 1870s did lack effective
                    national leadership. In 1876 the national party organizations played an ineffectual and limited role
                    in the campaign. As a result, "there were in reality thirty-eight campaigns for the
                    presidency in 1876, one in each of the states of the Union" (p. 148).
            
               The Politics of Inertia is a significant study which well details the elections of
                    1876 and includes fresh material on party organization, campaign practices, and managerial
                    techniques of the day. Although some will be disappointed by Polakoff's decision not to
                    analyze election returns, this should not detract from his contribution. The book is well written,
                    clearly organized, and soundly researched. In regard to the electoral controversy of 1876-1877,
                    Polakoff demonstrates that such historians as Woodward have exaggerated the danger of civil war. In
                    addition, the author's attempt to refute Woodward's thesis is persuasive. But to
                    argue that party structure made Woodward's Compromise of 1877 superfluous and unnecessary
                    is not necessarily to prove that such a political bargain was not instrumental in settling the
                    crisis. Whatever they conclude, historians of the period will now have to reevaluate the issue on
                    the basis of this study.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milwaukee
                
            John H. Schroeder
         
         
         
            
               The Tariff, Politics, and American Foreign Policy, 1874-1901. By Tom E. Terrill.
                        Contributions in American History, Number 31. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1973. Pp. x, 306. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $12.00.)
            Historians, as Tom E. Terrill points out, have not done well by the tariff issue. Deterred by the
                    volume of debate and the complexity of the schedules, they have either ignored or dismissed the
                    issue, notwithstanding its enduring and at times commanding position on the American political
                    stage. Terrill does not try to remedy all the neglect. He avoids an assessment of the economic
                    claims made for and against the the protectionist policy. (When is the "new"
                    economic history going to address this task?) Rather "the focus is on the
                    political and economic effects that American leaders thought the tariff
                    had" (p. 13). The period covered in the book is one in which tariff policy figured
                    prominently in the platforms of both major political parties and most of the minor ones.
            Terrill is impressively thorough in his coverage of the tariff debates of the 1880s and 1890s, and he
                    sets his account in the context of the two most important recent developments in Gilded Age
                    historiography: the "new" political history, with its stress on the behavioral
                    dimensions of politics, and the "new" diplomatic history, with its stress on the
                    economic dimensions of foreign affairs. Despite this conscientious approach the book will probably
                    do little to change established ideas about the subject. Sectional and ethnic tensions and those
                    unleased by corporate growth and industrial unrest were more basic voter concerns than the tariff,
                    Terrill concedes. Tariff controversy sprang from two sources—from business constituencies
                    that had a vested interest in higher or lower duties and from party strategists who were trying to
                    piece together coalitions that might overcome "political equipoise"
                    (Terrill's term for the narrow partisan balance of the day) while avoiding the more
                    explosive issues animating the electorate. Whether advanced as protectionism or reductionism the
                    tariff was an issue to lull people. It communicated an artificial sense of control—that
                    something could be done to manage the unnerving changes that industrialization and urbanization had
                    loosed without touching off the passions that these processes had loosed also.
            In a sense Terrill is telling the reader, reluctantly but commendably, that earlier historians were
                    right after all to  neglect the tariff, and he is giving better
                    reasons than one previously had to believe this. The same is true of the foreign policy angle.
                    Democratic reductionism and Republican reciprocity treaties were, he argues persuasively, rival
                    strategies both linked to the desire to remedy economic dislocation at home through trade expansion
                    abroad, but neither strategy got anywhere. Extreme protectionists in each party undercut the
                    reformers. The discussion of reciprocity ends on a characteristic note of anticlimax. Rebuffed by
                    Congress after negotiating a precedent shattering reciprocity agreement with 
                        France
                    , President William McKinley launched a new campaign for public support on the issue
                    with an address at Buffalo in 1901. The next day McKinley was shot.
            The book's most serious failure is literary. Terrill's prose is dull, stiff, and
                    sometimes ungrammatical, whether he is at a point of high drama in his story, as on page
                    185—"The legislative history of the Wilson-Gorman Tariff has often been
                    detailed, obviating the need of yet another elaborate narrative"—or at a low
                    point, as on page 132—"Of course the Democrats opposed (as it [sic] had spurned the 1884 reciprocity with 
                        Spain
                     for 
                        Cuba
                    ) protectionism, modified by a drawback system, for practical political
                    reasons." Many specialists may welcome this comprehensive account of a major political
                    debate, but this reviewer doubts that anyone will enjoy it.
            
                    West 
                            Virginia
                         University, Morgantown
                
            John Alexander Williams
         
         
            
               Political Reform in 
                            Wisconsin
                        : A Historical Review of the Subjects of Primary Election, Taxation, and Railway
                        Regulation. Written by Emanuel L. Philipp. Abridged and edited by Stanley P. Caine and
                    Roger E. Wyman. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1973. Pp. xxviii, 197. Notes. $12.00.)
            It is fair to ask why Political Reform in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                by Emanuel L. Philipp should be republished in this format at this time. The
                    researcher is unlikely to be satisfied with an abridgment and will want to see the original, the
                    general reader will be bewildered, and even dedicated specialists not directly at work on the Robert
                    F. La Follette movement in 
                    
                        Wisconsin
                     will find the effort taxing. The editors insist that nowhere else "can the
                    historian find a more detailed treatment of the legislative history of major reform bills"
                    (p. xxvii). This will meet with widespread if weary agreement. They also assert that
                    Philipp's book "has as legitimate a claim to being serious history as the more
                    popular Autobiography" of La Follette (p. xxvii). This may have had most
                    to do with the decision to publish.
            For many years La Follette was glorified as an heroic figure who singlehandedly built progressivism
                    into a mighty movement in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The editors, Stanley P. Caine and Roger E. Wyman, belong to a group of scholars,
                    including Robert S. Maxwell, Herbert F. Margulies, and David P. Thelen—to name the most
                    important—who have been happily demythologizing La Follette over the past decade and a
                    half. Cumulatively their work purports to reduce the importance of La Follette by showing that far
                    from initiating progressivism he placed himself at the head of a movement already well developed and
                    long in the making, and once in power his reforms did not amount to much anyway. These points are
                    precisely the burden of Philipp's book. La Follette's Autobiography was the seminal source for his glorification. Political Reform in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                clearly was a seminal source for the demythologizers, and for some of them
                    perhaps even the origin of their initial insight. No wonder the editors claim it is history as much
                    as the Autobiography.
            
            This reviewer thinks they are right but fears the effects. The Autobiography led a
                    generation of historians to identify a complex movement with one dominating personality, which was
                    surely unfortunate. But it is a logical fallacy to assume that if one position is wrong the opposite
                    must be the case. It does not reduce a politician's importance to accuse him of adopting
                    issues after they had become popular and riding them to victory. This is what political leadership
                    is all about and when executed brilliantly is evidence of political genius. There might, as Philipp
                    (and some of the demythologizers) claimed, have been a progressive movement in 
                        Wisconsin
                     whether or not there had been a La Follette. For better or worse it was La Follette,
                    nonetheless, who of all the possible contenders for leadership successfully harnessed the movement
                    to his career.
            
                    Loyola University, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
                
            James Penick, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        , 1910-29: Building, Planning, and Urban Technology. By Carl W. Condit. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1973. Pp. xiv, 354. Illustrations, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $12.50.)
            In 
                  
                            Chicago
                        , 1910-29, Carl W. Condit of Northwestern University has essayed a physical
                    history of the "Burnham years"—not the years when Daniel H. Burnham was
                    alive (he died in 1912), but the years after his 
                        Chicago
                     Plan of 1909 offered a comprehensive vision of how a great city should work and what it
                    should look like.
            Two decades might seem a restricted subject, but Condit refers backwards and forwards in time so
                    easily and with so much knowledge that he very nearly presents a physical description of 
                        Chicago
                     through its entire history. In two ways, his performance is dazzling. First, his
                    detailed treatment of the architectural and engineering feats of 1910-1929 offers a thorough
                    appraisal of structures that other historians have almost wholly neglected in the belief that the
                    buildings did not manifest any great originality. Second, he has penetrated into areas not normally
                    considered: the entire transportation network, the treatment of sewage and water, and building types
                    other than the skyscraper or the single family residence. Only a scholar with a deep love for his
                    city could have written such a book, and only because of such a love could he have so roundly taken
                    the measure of the city and concluded that in terms of human life, the final terms of history, 
                        Chicago
                     has failed miserably.
            Condit may often seem a victim of the normal form of Chicagoan bragging: the grain exchange is
                    "by far the largest market of its kind in the world" (p. 130); Halsted is
                    "very likely … the longest commercial street in the world" (p. 74),
                    while Lake Shore Drive is the "most celebrated of all urban parkways" (p. 32); the
                    city has "the largest and most effective sewage treatment system in the world" (p.
                    17) and the "largest water supply system" (p. 16); Wacker Drive is "the
                    first two-level boulevard in the world" (p. 250); etc. All this sort of superficial glory
                    in size and technology is, however, brought before the bar: Condit does not hesitate to call 
                        Chicago
                     a city depleted by "the intransigence of the modern suburb" (p. 74),
                    with an inner city gaining "an ever widening trail of slums, overcrowding, unsanitary
                    conditions and ill health, crime, and endemic lawlessness"  (p. 66), where "any elected body … is likely to be
                    subject to corruption" (p. 18) in "a nation that places aggrandizement before life
                    itself" (p. 9).
            Thus Condit's picture of the years of the 
                        Chicago
                     Plan is largely tragic. Despite the vision, the philanthropy, and the daring
                    technological means, it became "no longer possible to hide the fact that there were two
                    cities, one consisting of the skyscraper core and the luxury apartments that stretched along the
                    lakefront, and the other its exact opposite—the tangled rail wreckage, the deteriorating
                    factories and warehouses, the slums and the spreading ghetto, the miles of gray areas
                    …." (p. 167). It is a moving study, full of facts balanced by clearsighted
                    judgments.
            
               
                  
                            Kansas
                         City Star, 
                  
                            Kansas
                         City, Mo.
            
            Donald Hoffmann
         
         
            
               Centennial History of the University of 
                            Nebraska
                        . Volume II, The Modern University, 1920-1969. By R. McLaran
                    Sawyer. (Lincoln: Centennial Press, 1973. Pp. x, 292. Notes, illustrations, appendices, note on
                    sources, index. $7.50.)
            With each major anniversary of an educational institution an official history usually appears. These
                    institutional biographies vary considerably in quality and value as historical literature. Some are
                    exceptional contributions as social and intellectual history; others take a more institutional
                    approach, presenting the history of a single college or university as a reflection of the trends in
                    American life. The majority of the anniversary volumes, however, fall into another category. They
                    are usually little more than a compilation of summaries and are lacking in interpretation and
                    analysis.
            R. McLaran Sawyer's Centennial History of the University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
                is an example of this last type of educational history. His volume, which
                    traces the university from its status as a traditional midwestern land grant institution in 1920 to
                    that of a large complex modern university in 1969, is an encyclopedia of factual information about
                    administrators, academic organization, enrollments, appropriations, faculties, student life, and
                    athletics. The author says that this is an interpretative history, but he offers little analysis of
                    the influences that shaped the university or of the institution's role in serving the
                    people and the state. He explains  that the history of the
                    university is the story of people, but the volume is a catalog of names rather than of
                    personalities.
            Sawyer succumbed to the usual limitations of an anniversary volume. First, as the
                    university's official historian, he tries to cover all events and developments without
                    differentiating between the trivial and the significant. Certainly the invitation to the Rose Bowl
                    in 1941 was a milestone in the Cornhuskers' athletic achievements, but Sawyer devotes far
                    more space and detail to this event than to a discussion of the controversy between the Arts and
                    Sciences and Teachers colleges concerning the nature and purposes of the university.
            Secondly, in writing an anniversary volume the tendency is to deal with developments mainly in
                    progressive terms. According to Sawyer the University of 
                        Nebraska
                     survived the economic retrenchment of the thirties, adjusted successfully to the
                    wartime demands of the forties, met the challenges of expansion in the fifties, and made steady and
                    certain progress in the sixties. The author glosses over the conflicts, controversies, and crises
                    which beset the institution. The university appears not to have been affected by the gloomy shadow
                    cast over the world by McCarthyism. There were issues concerning academic freedom, but these receive
                    little attention in Sawyer's book.
            This is essentially a public relations type book which presents the university in the best possible
                    light. It is a mine of factual information and might be useful as a reference work, but it is of
                    limited value as a contribution to the history of education. Since neither Sawyer nor the publisher
                    chose to identify the author of the first volume of the centennial history, which covered the period
                    from 1869 to 1919, it should be mentioned here that it was Robert N. Manley.
            
                    
                  
                            California
                         State University, Northridge
                
            Rena Vassar
         
         
            
               The G.I. Bill, the Veterans, and the Colleges. By Keith W. Olson. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1974. Pp. x, 139. Illustrations, bibliographical note, notes, index.
                    $9.25.)
            This volume by Keith Olson of the University of 
                        Maryland
                     fills a genuine need in the history of American higher education. The standard
                    histories of higher education, such  as Frederick
                    Rudolph's The American College and University (1962), say very little
                    about the impact of the G.I. Bill on the nation's institutions of higher learning. Davis R.
                    B. Ross in Preparing for Ulysses (1969) tells of the legislative history of the
                    law. Olson documents its impact on education.
            The general thesis of his work is that the G.I. Bill was passed to help solve the anticipated postwar
                    problems of unemployment and disgruntled veterans and to replenish the nation's depleted
                    supply of college educated persons. Few of its supporters or critics correctly anticipated its
                    results. Veterans—2,232,000 of them—flooded the campuses of the
                    nation's colleges and universities in the postwar years, doubling enrollments and creating
                    educational demands which all levels of government and education gladly scrambled to meet.
            Using the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     as a case study, Olson illustrates how students' housing needs became
                    critical, faculty and staff were expanded, and married students and families became an accepted part
                    of the academic scene. Much to the amazement of college administrators veterans consistently
                    received higher grades than their nonveteran counterparts.
            The success of this legislation is demonstrated by Congress' willingness to pass two more
                    G.I. Bills in 1952 and 1966. Further, the positive results were a support to those who argued for
                    increased federal aid to higher education and an expansion of the opportunities for college
                    experience to a broader spectrum of American society.
            Olson's book is well researched and concisely written. His style fails to communicate the
                    emotions and interest generated by the G.I.'s return to campus, but it does effectively
                    present the facts. Of particular interest is his analysis of the adjustment of veterans to college
                    life and his discussion of the social impact of the educational provisions of the G.I. Bill. So many
                    veterans returned to college so fast that if any adjustments needed to be made, it was by the
                    non-veteran recent high school graduate who for the years 1946 to 1950 was a minority on most
                    university campuses. The veterans themselves were in familiar surroundings.
            Many commentators on the G.I. Bill have argued that it provided educational opportunities to a large
                    segment of American society which otherwise would have been denied  the privilege of a college education. Olson's research and
                    analysis qualify this interpretation. Basing- his conclusions on a study by 
                        Norman
                     Frederiksen and William B. Schrader, Adjustment to College (1951),
                    Olson concludes that no more than twenty per cent of the veterans who attended college under the
                    G.I. Bill would not have done so without this aid. It was not a social revolution in education.
            Perhaps outside the scope of Olson's study is Public Law 16 which provided educational
                    benefits to disabled veterans of World War II. Although the numbers qualifying for aid under this
                    program were only a fraction of those who attended college under the G.I. Bill, they rate at least
                    some discussion. With this minor omission considered, Olson has produced a work which historians of
                    higher education will need to consult. The volume documents the fact that the modern university
                    began after World War II and that the G.I. Bill played a significant role in that development.
            
                    John Wesley College, Owosso, Mich.
                
            David R. Warriner
         
         
            
               The Subordinate Sex: A History of Attitudes toward Women. By Vern L. Bullough,
                    with the assistance of Bonnie Bullough. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1973. Pp. viii, 375. Notes, guide to further reading, index. $10.95.)
            Historians interested in women's history look forward to every new publication in the field
                    with great anticipation. Surely the need is great for illuminating, informative, and perceptive
                    discussions of the role of women in history. Unfortunately, at least for this reader, The Subordinate Sex does not fulfill the hope. Professor Bullough has previously written a
                    textbook survey of western civilization; he seems to have culled his notes for references to women
                    and based this work upon that source. As he states in his preface, he has no particular theory to
                    explain the depressing treatment given women throughout history. He simply relates, in turgid prose,
                    a very selective run through history, an ambitious task by any standard.
            Absent from his bibliography and footnotes is Elizabeth Gould Davis' The First
                        Sex, which could have provided Bullough with interesting descriptions and hypotheses of the
                         mythological origins of matriarchal civilization.
                    Bullough's early chapter on the origins of civilization suffer from this absence. Mary
                    Ellmann's Thinking About Women, another perceptive and brilliant analysis
                    of woman's imagery in literature, is also absent. Bullough touches subjects and then moves
                    gingerly on to something else. Surely in 354 pages he is unable to deal seriously with all of
                    western civilization's view of women, with a chapter of eastern civilization thrown in as
                    well. Why attempt such a difficult task? If, as this work suggests, each time period,
                    each culture, reproduced the same views, ad nauseum, toward women, why bother repeating
                    them? Why not discuss the reasons for this sameness and the basis for the similarities
                    between cultures?
            Was the Judeo-Christian tradition an influential variable? Was the biological nature of
                    woman—translated into the cultural definition throughout human history—the
                    determining force? How many important changes occurred in a woman's life because
                    of material changes rather than ideological ones? For an answer to these questions, the
                    reader must look elsewhere. Bullough's treatment of 
                        United States
                     history, the reviewer's field of study, rates one rather skimpy chapter.
                    Bonnie Bullough contributes a final chapter entitled "Some Questions about the Past and the
                    Future."
            
               The Subordinate Sex offers highly selective illustrations of the negative view men
                    have held toward women throughout recorded history. It is a depressing and often puzzling account;
                    why some male commentators are included and others are not goes unexplained. The deep hostility,
                    perhaps fear, men had for women (and still have?) deserves and requires some explanation,
                    or at least some tentative searchings for an answer. Without them, The Subordinate
                    Sex remains a highly repetitive, often badly written, survey of some males' negative
                    attitudes toward women, an unfortunate reminder for writers of history and herstory that a
                    conceptual scheme, not simply a "study of attitudes," is essential to writing a
                    worthy story of anything.
            
                    Northeastern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
                
            June Sochen
         
         
         
            Newspaper Microfilming Project
            On April 1, 1974, the Indiana State Library received a grant from Lilly Endowment, Inc., to fund an
                    Indiana newspaper project with the following goals: to generate a newspaper history for each Indiana
                    county, to locate all extant copies of each newspaper, to microfilm all such newspapers on a
                    priority basis, and to publish a computerized guide and union list of Indiana newspapers. The
                    Endowment has funded the project for the first year with an offer of matching funds to the state of
                    Indiana to continue it a second and third years. Anyone having information concerning Indiana
                    newspapers is asked to contact Glenn A. Tebbe, Newspaper Microfilming Project, Indiana State
                    Library, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
         
         
         
            Review Notices*
            
            
               Guide to the Regional History Collections of the Byron R. Lewis Historical Library.
                    Compiled by Thomas Krasean. (
                        Vincennes
                    : 
                        Vincennes
                     University, 1974. Pp. 48. Index. Pamphlet, $1.00.) Dedicated in 1967, the
                    Byron R. Lewis Library, 
                        Vincennes
                     University, contains books and papers received from Mr. Lewis as well as a variety of
                    other valuable items. This guide summarizes the holdings of the library by categories, and it
                    affords useful comments about the quantity and content of each category. Among items listed are: a
                    logbook of a steamboat that plied the Wabash River in 1885; sixty-eight volumes
                    of records concerning the Sonderman General Store at Ferdinand, Indiana, 1855-1911; five volumes of
                    minutes of the Maria Creek Baptist Church, of which Isaac McCoy was an early minister; seven folders
                    of John Badollet papers; one folder of John Ewing papers; one folder of Francis Vigo papers; two
                    folders of James D. Williams papers; various newspaper files; and a variety of oral history tapes.
                    Though especially valuable for material regarding 
                        Vincennes
                     and its surrounding area, both in 
                        Illinois
                     and in Indiana, items of value for both national and state history are also found in
                    the collection. The pamphlet can be obtained by writing the Lewis Historical Library, 
                        Vincennes
                     University, 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana 47591.
            
               The Story of Indiana's Constitution Elm, Corydon, Indiana, June
                        1816…, with a Sketch of the Posey House. Compiled by Frederick Porter Griffin.
                    (Corydon: General Printing Co., for Daniel Patrick Griffin. Pp. 23. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) This pamphlet contains short items about Corydon and statehood for Indiana. Its
                    two leading articles are "The Birth of Indiana, 1816," by Arville L. Funk; and
                    "The Constitution Elm, Corydon, Indiana," by Frederick Porter Griffin, both of
                    which have previously been published elsewhere. A sketch of the Thomas Posey house, prepared by
                    Griffin on the basis of material obtained from his aunt, Mary Jane Griffin, is also included. This
                    pamphlet can be purchased for $1.00, plus $.25 handling charge if sent by
                    mail, from The Hoosier Elm Chapter DAR, 219 Oak Street, Corydon, Indiana 47112.
            
               
                  * Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written by
                        the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
            
            
            
               Stellite: A History of the Haynes Stellite Company, 1912-1972. By Ralph D. Gray. (
                        Kokomo
                    , Ind.: Stellite Division, Cabot Corporation, 1974. Pp. 112. Illustrations, notes,
                    appendix. Pamphlet, $3.50.) In this informative booklet Professor Gray, who is writing a
                    biography of 
                        Elwood
                     Haynes, considers the metallurgical discoveries of Haynes and the products resulting
                    therefrom. Shortly before World War I Haynes began the manufacture of nonferrous alloys which were
                    highly resistant to tarnish and abrasion. At first interested in the making of table and pocket
                    cutlery, Haynes experimented with a number of alloys; one of these, known as Stellite, soon replaced
                    high speed steel in the machine industries. The growth and development of uses for Stellite alloys
                    in the decades which have followed constitute the basic emphases of this concise study.
            
               The Hoosier Salon, 1925-1974: A Dream of Far sighted Men and Women. By Mrs. Henry
                    Lester Smith. (Blooming-ton, Ind.: Hoosier Salon Patrons Association, 1974. Pp. 32. Illustrations,
                    appendix. Pamphlet, $2.00.) In The Hoosier Salon Mrs. Smith gives a
                    concise view of the annual exhibits of Indiana art which were held in 
                        Chicago
                     from 1925 to 1937 and then in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Credit is given to the Daughters of Indiana, Indiana Federation of Clubs, Kappa Kappa
                    Kappa, and Psi Iota Xi, along with numerous individuals, for these exhibits. Particular
                    acknowledgment is also given the William H. Block Company for generous and continuing assistance.
                    This booklet is a memento in observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the Hoosier Salon's
                    efforts in recognizing and encouraging Indiana art. The pamphlet can be obtained by writing the
                    Hoosier Salon Patrons Association, Inc., P. 0. Box 2471, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46306.
            
               History of 
                            Michigan
                         City, Indiana. By Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale. Reprint. (
                        Evansville
                    : Unigraphic, Inc., 1974. Pp. 220, 24. Illustrations, index of names.
                    $15.00.) In the main this volume concerns the growth of 
                        Michigan
                     City from its founding in the early 1830s through roughly the Civil War era. At the
                    outset 
                        Michigan
                     City had much going for it, and for quite some time it was the entrepot for trade to
                    and from Indiana via Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . By the end of the 1830s the town had become the northern terminus of  the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, opened across the state via 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Madison
                    ; the site for construction of a federal harbor; the western terminus of a proposed canal to connect Lake 
                        Michigan
                     with the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal at or near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; and the home of a branch of the Second State Bank of Indiana. Oglesbee and Hale give
                    much useful information and thoughtful perspectives about these and other developments. Though their
                    account, originally published in 1908, is not without error and must be used with caution,
                    nonetheless it is one of value and significance. This book can be purchased from the 
                        Michigan
                     City Historical Society, P.O. Box 512, 
                        Michigan
                     City, Indiana 46306.
            
               Architectural Interpretations as Found in Carroll Counties, Indiana and 
                            Kentucky
                        . Edited by Michael Lynch, Sammye Woods, and Marcy McDowell. (
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Frankfort
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society and 
                        Kentucky
                     Young Historical Society, 1974. Pp. 38. Illustrations, $1.00.) This item is
                    similar to previous publications of the Indiana Junior Historical Society in terms of format and
                    content. The pamphlet, however, covers both 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana, and 
                  Carroll County, Kentucky
               , and is published in cooperation with
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     Young Historical Society.
            
               Way Back When: Informal Essays of 
                            Rush County
                         Oral History. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, [1974]. Pp. 26. Illustrations. $1.00.)
                        Way Back When "marks a new beginning" for publications by
                    the Indiana Junior Historical Society (p. 4). It includes transcripts of oral history tapes covering
                    topics and persons associated with 
                        Rush County
                     and was apparently prepared by a number of students affiliated with the 
                        Rushville
                     High School Historical Society during the last few years. An unsigned Foreward states:
                    "As you will find in this publication, each article, like the production of the tapes, has
                    been left in the hands of students. Our goal is to share some of the samples of the information
                    gained by amatures [sic] in the oral history project. Each contributor selected
                    his own subject nad [sic] used his own judgment regarding content and style. It
                    should be pointed out that no claim is made to academic excellence nor to total accuracy of content.
                    Oral history is an informal, reflective area and thus simeltaneously [sic] more
                    fascinating  and less technically precise than formal scholarly
                    research" (p. 4). The students involved in this project merit "A" for
                    effort and enthusiasm, but the teachers and advisors responsible for permitting tapes to be prepared
                    and published in as casual and as poorly processed and edited a manner as is suggested by this
                    booklet must be given a lower mark for failing to make at least a reasonable effort to teach
                    students how to become more expert in their devotion to the muse Clio. The preparation of oral tapes
                    can and should be fun for students; nevertheless, unless students also learn the joy and thrill of
                    doing historical work as it should be done, both they and those who use the results of their efforts
                    are cheated.
            
               Walter Dietz Speaking. By Walter Dietz. (Summit, N. J.: The author, 1973. Pp. 171.
                    Illustrations.) Walter Dietz has written a warm and personal account of himself and his family. His
                    narrative begins with a discussion of his birth at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in 1880, along with items concerning his German forebears on both sides of
                    his family and their residence in 
                        Madison
                    . The reminiscences offer considerable information about life in 
                        Madison
                     in the 1880s and 1890s, then something of student days at Purdue University at the turn
                    of the century. In 1902 Dietz received the bachelor of science degree in engineering from Purdue.
                    Most of the remainder of this volume tells of forty some years of association with the Western
                    Electric Company, family life, community services, and governmental work in World War II. The final
                    pages are mainly concerned with years of retirement;—roughly the past quarter century.
                    Though apparently written principally as a record for members of the Dietz and related families,
                    various portions of the book have material which is useful for historical writers. Walter Dietz Speaking is not for general sale. For further information about the volume
                    contact J. Walter Dietz, 41 Oakland Place, Summit, 
                        New Jersey
                     07901.
            
               A History of Manufactures in the Ohio Valley to the Year 1860.
                    By Isaac Lippincott. Reprint. Perspectives in American History, Number 14. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Porcupine Press, 1974. Pp. vii, 214. Notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $11.95.) Originally published in 1914, this modest volume offers considerable information
                    and important perspectives  about the development of
                    manufacturing in the Ohio Valley from the late eighteenth century until the
                    Civil War. The industrial development of the region is pictured with regard to its natural
                    resources, topography, climate, and isolation from older states of the Atlantic seaboard. Lippincott
                    indicates that the earliest manufactures were much influenced by the desire to have essential items
                    which could not be obtained from a distance without excessive cost. The reduced costs of
                    transportation arising from the introduction and widespread use of steamboats beginning about the
                    1820s and of railroads around midcentury greatly modified the places in which certain products were
                    made. Lippincott indicates the remarkable ability of western pioneers to develop manufacturing
                    largely on the basis of local labor and financing— despite the shortage of both of these
                    key elements.
            
               Mark Twain's 
                            Mississippi
                        : A Pictorial History of America's Greatest River; Also Selected Excerpts
                        from Mark Twain's Life on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . By T. H. Watkins. (Palo Alto: American West Publishing Company, 1974. Pp. 221.
                    Illustrations, suggested reading, index, reference map. $16.95.) Mark
                        Twain's 
                            Mississippi
                        
                is a delight to view and peruse! Its beautiful pictures, many of
                    them in color, and its commentary provide "a montage of impressions," which
                    "illuminate the life and history of this most American of all American
                    rivers" from its discovery by Europeans in the late 1700s to the 1970s (p. 25).
                    Read with or without the excerpts from Twain's Life on the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               , it accents some of the great moments and movements in the contest for empire
                    among European countries and in the history of the American nation.
            
               An Album of American Battle Art, 1755-1918.
                    
                        Text
                     by Donald H. Mugridge and Helen F. Conover. Reprint. 
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. xx, 319. Illustrations, graphic index. $19.50.) A
                    reprint of a work originally published under the auspices of the Library of Congress in 1947, this
                    "album" includes 150 plates which illustrate how Americans fought in wars from the
                    late colonial era through World War I. Commentary and illustrations combine to describe changing
                    technology and changing ways of fighting for the major conflicts in which Americans participated for
                    the period indicated.
            
            
               Battle for a Continent: Quebec, 1759. By Gordon Donaldson. (
                        Garden City
                    , N. Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1973. Pp. 241. End maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $8.95.) A sampling of this book suggests that it is a popular
                    history of one of the most important battles ever fought on the mainland of North America. Although
                    the English triumph at Quebec affected the destiny of 
                        Canada
                    , it also affected that of the 
                        United States
                    , especially the Old Northwest.
            
               Encyclopedia of the American Revolution. By Mark Mayo Boatner III. Bicentennial
                    edition. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, Inc., 1974. Pp. xviii, 1290. Maps, bibliography, indices.
                    $17.50.) An enlarged and revised edition of the encyclopedia which the author initially
                    published in 1966, this second or "Bicentennial Edition" is timely to say the
                    least. A helpful and informative reference work, its usefulness is enhanced by the inclusion of much
                    bibliographical information, various maps and an index thereto, and a short index of principal
                    "Cover" and "Topical" articles. In any event, most sketches of
                    persons, explanation of items, etc., are found in their alphabetical order. By looking under both
                    "Clark, George Rogers," and "The Western Operations of Clark,"
                    for instance, a summary view may be gained of Clark and his participation in the American Revolution
                    in the West. If mention is made of either Clark's Grant (
                        Illinois
                     Grant) or of the beginning of settlement at Clarksville, Indiana, which preceded that
                    at Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , this reviewer missed it. In addition, Marietta is shown on at least two maps (pp. 254,
                    1189), but Clarksville seems to have been ignored. Nonetheless, Clarksville ivas
                    settled ahead of Marietta, and it is significant in telling about the American
                    Revolution in the West.
            
               Signers of the Declaration: Historic Places Commemorating the Signing of the Declaration
                        of Independence. Edited by Robert G. Ferris. {The National Survey of Historic
                        Sites and Buildings, Volume XVIII; 
                        Washington
                    : National Park Service, 
                        United States
                     Department of the Interior, 1973. Pp. xii, 310. Illustrations, appendix, suggested
                    reading, index. $5.65.) The organization of this book is simple and logical.  After a brief historical sketch regarding the Declaration of
                    Independence, there follow biographical sketches of the fifty-six signers of the document, then an
                    historical survey of the sites and structures associated with them. The latter section offers most
                    of what is new in this volume. Moreover, the material therein affords abundant evidence that the
                    founding fathers were anything but log cabin dwellers, for most of them lived in quite attractive
                    and in some instances elegant houses. This book is available from the Superintendent of Documents,
                    Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. 20402.
            
               A List of References for the History of the Farmers' Alliance and the Populist
                        Party. Compiled by Henry C. Dethloff. (Davis: Agricultural History Center, University of 
                        California
                    , 1973. Pp. iii, 80. Author index, Paperbound, free.) A List of References
                        for the History of Agriculture in the Midivest, 184-0-1900. Compiled by Douglas E. Bowers
                    and James B. Hoehn. (Davis: Agricultural History Center, University of 
                        California
                    , 1973. Pp. iii, 72. Author index. Paperbound, free.) These extremely useful
                    publications are appropriately described by their titles. Each includes writings arranged by
                    categories as well as by a number of individual states. Although Indiana's agrarian history
                    has unfortunately been grossly neglected and although the Hoosier State was less affected by the
                    Farmers' Alliance and populist movements than various other commonwealths, the absence of
                    any listings, however brief, regarding the Alliance and populists in Indiana is regretted.
            
               Panoramic Maps of American Cities. Compiled by John R. Hebert. (
                        Washington
                    : The Library of Congress, 1970. Seven sections, separately paginated. Unbound, free.)
                    Here is a checklist of approximately one thousand panoramic maps of American cities. The maps are
                    located in the Library of Congress and cover the period from about 1865 until the close of World War
                    I. The checklist is divided into seven separate sections including the New 
                        England
                     states, Middle Atlantic states, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Southern states, East North Central states, West North Central states, and Pacific and
                    Mountain states. Only fifteen maps are listed for Indiana, with some cities and towns being
                    represented by two or three maps.  For each map the artist,
                    author, map size, and lithographer or printer are indicated if known. Maps are listed for Attica,
                    Delphi, 
                        Evansville
                    , Fort 
                  Wayne, Kokomo, Lafayette, Michigan
                City, Peru, 
                  Richmond, South Bend
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The entire checklist or its various sections may be requested from the Geography and
                    Map Division, Library of Congress, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20540.
            
               Museum Media: A Biennial Directory and Index of Publications and Audiovisuals Available
                        from 
                            United States
                         and Canadian Institutions. Paul Wasserman, managing editor; Esther Herman,
                    associate editor. (
                        Detroit
                    : Gale Research Company, 1973. Pp. vii, 455. Indices. $48.00.) "Museum Media is intended to provide bibliographic control of books, booklets,
                    monographs, catalogs, pamphlets and leaflets, films and filmstrips, and other media which are
                    prepared and distributed by museums, art galleries and related institutions in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    " (p. v). Data regarding holdings are offered for 732 depositories, followed by
                    a lengthy Title and Keyword Index and short Subject and Geographic indices. A pioneering effort,
                    this work is intended to be the first volume of a projected biennial publication. Though Museum Media is helpful in locating certain material, it hardly achieves
                    "bibliographic control" of the field. For one thing, the seven depositories listed
                    for Indiana (p. 449) do not include the Indiana State Museum, the Indiana University Museum, or the
                    Audio-Visual Center of Indiana University, to say nothing of museums and art galleries at 
                        Evansville
                    , Fort 
                  Wayne, Terre
                            Haute, South Bend
               , and
                    elsewhere in the Hoosier State. The editors and publishers apparently have some important homework
                    to do as regards the desirable scope, content, and coverage for projected biennial directories.
            
               Catalog of National Archives Microfilm Publications. (
                        Washington
                    : National Archives and Records Service, 1974. Pp. x, 184. Appendix, index. Paperbound,
                    free.) The significance of this catalog is quite substantial. Replacing the List of
                        National Archives Microfilm Publications which appeared in 1968, it provides general
                    guidance to the more than 104,000 rolls of microfilm which the National Archives has produced and
                    made available for sale since it began  microfilming in 1940.
                    The enormous value of these microfilms to historians is apparent from even a cursory examination of
                    the new catalog. What may be less apparent, however, is that thousands of the accumulated rolls are
                    also of great value to persons preparing either biographical or genealogical studies. A rather
                    comprehensive index, pages 139-84, offers much information about the content of the more than
                    104,000 microfilms available for sale—at $12 per roll. An added page at the
                    end of the catalog offers instructions for ordering the microfilm rolls. A copy of this catalog can
                    be requested from Publication Sales Branch (NEPS), National Archives (GSA), 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. 20408.
            
                    Books Received
                
            
               
                  History of American Conspiracies: A Record of Treason, Insurrection, Rebellion,
                            & c. in the 
                                United States
                             of America from 1760 to 1860. By Orville J. Victor. Reprint. Rutland, Vt:
                        Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1973. Pp. 546. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound, $4.25.)
               
                  Going to America. By Terry Coleman. (
                            Garden City
                        , N. Y.: Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1973. Pp. x, 345. Illustrations, sources and
                        bibliography, appendices, index. Paper-bound, $2.50.)
               
                  The Rise of the Unmeltable Ethnics: Politics and Culture in the Seventies.
                        By Michael Novak. (
                            New York
                        : Mac-millan Publishing Co., Inc., 1973. Pp. xxxv, 376. Notes, bibliography, index.
                        Paperbound, $1.95.)
               
                  American Expansionism: The Critical Issues. Edited by Marilyn Blatt Young.
                            Critical Issues in American History Series. Edited by Barton J. Bernstein. (
                            Boston
                        : Little, 
                            Brown
                         and Company, 1973. Pp. xvi, 184. Notes, suggestions for further reading.
                        Paperbound, $12.95.)
               
                  Seven Lean Years. By T. J. Woofter, Jr., and Ellen Winston. Reprint. Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Era of the New Deal Reprint Series. Edited by
                        Frank Freidel. (
                            New York
                        : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. xi, 187. Illustrations, notes, index. $8.95.)
               
               
                  The Catskills: From Wilderness to Woodstock. By Alf Evers. (
                            Garden City
                        , N. Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1972. Pp. xiv, 821. Maps, illustrations,
                        notes, select bibliography, index. $12.50.)
               
                  Slavery and Jeffersonian 
                                Virginia
                            . By Robert McColley. Second edition. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. xvii, 263. Notes, documentary supplement, statistical tables,
                        essay on sources, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $2.95.)
               
                  The Southern Dream of a Caribbean Empire, 1854-1861. By Robert E. May. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1973. Pp. x, 286. Notes, bibliography, index.
                        $10.00.)
               
                  Black Business in the New South: A Social History of the 
                                North Carolina
                             Mutual Life Insurance Company. By Walter B. Weare. Blacks in
                            the Neiv World Series. Edited by August Meier. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. x, 312. Notes, tables, illustrations, sources, index.
                        $10.95.)
               
                  Jews in the South. Edited by Leonard Dinnerstein and Mary Dale Palsson. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1973. Pp. viii, 392. Notes, bibliographical essay.
                        $12.50.)
               
                  Walter Reuther. By Robert L. Tyler. Great Men of 
                                Michigan
                            
                   Series. Edited by C. Warren Vander Hill. ([Grand Rapids]: William B.
                        Eerdmans, 1973. Pp. 80. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical essay. Paperbound,
                        $1.95.)
               
                  Joe Louis. By Anthony O. Edmonds. Great Men of 
                                Michigan
                            
                   Series. Edited by C. Warren Vander Hill. ([Grand Rapids]: William B.
                        Eerdmans, 1973. Pp. 112. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical essay. Paperbound,
                        $2.45.)
               
                  Cowboy Capital of the World: The Saga of Dodge City. By Samuel Carter III. (
                            Garden City
                        , N. Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1973. Pp. 280. Maps, illustrations,
                        bibliography, index. $4.95.)
               
                  And Still the Waters Run: The Betrayal of the Five Civilized Tribes. By
                        Angie Debo. New edition. (
                            Princeton
                        : 
                            Princeton
                         University Press, 1972. Pp. xxxi, 417. Notes, illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                        index. Paperbound, $2.95.)
               
               
                  The Kikuchi Diary: Chronicles from an American Concentration Camp, the Tanforan
                            Journals of Charles Kikuchi. Edited and with an introduction by John Modell. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. 258. Notes, illustrations, suggestions for further reading.
                        $8.95.)
               
                  Pedro de la Torre: Doctor to Conquerors. By John Tate Lanning. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : 
                            Louisiana
                         State University Press, 1974. Pp. xiv, 145. Notes, illustrations, appendices,
                        bibliography, index. $7.50.)
               
                  The Mexican Revolution and the Catholic Church, 1910-1929. By Robert E.
                        Quirk. (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1973. Pp. 276. Map, bibliographical note, notes, index.
                        $10.00.)
               
                  The People. By Jules Michelet. Translated with an introduction by John P.
                        McKay. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. xxxi, 214. Notes, index. Clothbound, $10.00;
                        paperbound, $2.45.)
               
                  The Systematization of Russian Government: Social Evolution in the Domestic
                            Administration of Imperial Russia, 1711-1905. By George L. Yaney. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. xvi, 430. Notes, figures, selected bibliography, index.
                        $13.50.)
               
                  Notes from 
                                China
                            . By Barbara W. Tuchman. (
                            New York
                        : Collier Books, 1972. Pp. xiii, 112. Map, illustrations, notes. Paperbound,
                        $1.25.)
               
                  Mao Tse-tung and I Were Beggars. By Siao-yu. Reprint. Foreward by Lin
                        Yutang; preface by Raymond F. Piper; historical commentary and notes by Robert C. North. (
                            New York
                        : Collier Books, 1973. Pp. xx, 361. Historical commentary and notes, index.
                        Paperbound, $1.95.)
               
                  From Ottomanism to Arabism: Essays on the Origins of Arab Nationalism. By C.
                        Ernest Dawn. (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 1973. Pp. ix, 212. Notes, index. $8.95.)
               
                  The Receipt Book of Mrs. Ann Blencowe, A.D. 169A. Introduction by George
                        Saintsbury. Reprint. Preface by Leander W. Smith. (Cottonport, La.: Polyanthos, 1972. Pp. xxiii,
                        60. Illustrations. $5.00.)
               
                  Every Man Is My Father. By William E. Wilson. (
                            New York
                        : Saturday Review Press, 1973. Pp. x, 449. $8.95.)
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
