
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 103, Issue 3, pages 231-346. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:103+issue:3+year:2007&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                "A Noble Experiment"
                The Marriage Course at Indiana University, 1938-1940
                DONNA J. DRUCKER
                
                    This was a noble experiment. Most of the lectures brought me material that I was ignorant of. For
                        the first time, I had the opportunity to receive information on sex from reliable sources.
                        However, it was not merely the biology side which was informa tive. To me, the information
                        should serve as a basis for a success ful married life. Male student from fall 1938 session1
                
                The front page of the Bloomington Daily Telephone on June 23, 1938, carried an
                    article entitled "I.U. to Offer Course in 'Marriage.'"Unnamed
                    Indiana University (IU) officials praised the proposed faculty- run, twelve-session, noncredit
                    course: "Dependence on our civilization 
                        Donna J. Drucker is a doctoral candidate in the Department of History at Indiana
                            University Bloomington. She thanks Liana Zhou and Shawn C. Wilson of the Kinsey Institute
                            Library for their assistance, and she is grateful to Eric Sandweiss, Bonnie Laughlin
                            Schultz, Robin C. Henry, Donald W Maxwell, Jeremy Rapport, Joshua Levens, and the anonymous
                            reviewer for their comments on earlier drafts. Copyrighted material from the Kinsey
                            Institute Archives is reprinted by permission of the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex,
                            Gender, and Reproduction, Inc.
                        1"Summary of Student Answers," November 1938, folder
                            5, series V.A. .i., box 11, Alfred C. Kinsey Collection, Kinsey Institute Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            . 
                    
                    is largely a matter of preserving the family on a high
                    level… . The course on marriage to be offered at Indiana University is intended to help
                    family conditions." Next to news about recent hot weather and the comings and goings of IU
                    professors, notice of the course likely generated little interest in the small, south-central 
                        Indiana
                     town. However, the course would become increasingly popular and controversial until the
                    resignation of its lead faculty member, zoology professor Alfred C. Kinsey, in September 1940. The
                    marriage course proved to be an important moment in Kinsey's intellectual history.
                    Fascinated by the intimate sex histories of course participants that he had begun to record, and
                    discouraged by the turn to laboratory work in evolutionary biology, he gave up teaching the course
                    after seven sessions in order to focus on the initial data for what would become his two largest and
                    most comprehensive works, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female.2
                
                Marriage courses appeared on two- and four-year college campuses across the country beginning in the
                    late 1920s, amid dramatic cultural change in the lives of teenagers and college-aged young people.
                    Secular educators attempted to teach Christian morals and values while realizing that modern
                    technology and urbanization had irreversibly transformed marriage. The first version of the IU
                    marriage course in summer 1938 (with one important exception) followed the standard format of other
                    marriage courses throughout the 
                        United States
                    and echoed many established themes of the burgeoning marriage course movement and the
                    scientific field of sexology. The course included optional personal conferences with the lead
                    instructor, also a common practice. But Kinsey's lectures for the course began to diverge
                    from standard marriage instruction rhetoric. The shift began when students told him how much they
                    appreciated learning about the uniqueness of people's sexual anatomy and desires, and when
                    he began to do more intensive research in sex, with data from marriage course students and from
                    other nonstudent groups. As Kinsey discovered the diversity of sexual behavior among undergraduate
                    and graduate students, faculty wives, and heterosexuals and homosexuals in 
                        Chicago
                    and northern 
                        Indiana
                    , his lectures opened 
                        2"I.U. to Offer Course in 'Marriage': In
                            Form of Series of Lectures and Will Be Open to Selected Group," Bloomington Daily Telephone, June 23, 1938, p. 1; Alfred C. Kinsey, Wardell B.
                            Pomeroy, and Clyde E. Martin, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1948); Alfred C. Kinsey, Wardell B. Pomeroy, Clyde E. Martin, and Paul H.
                            Gebhard, Sexual Behavior in the Human Female ( 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1953). 
                    
                    broad questions about sexuality that the marriage course, with
                    its obvious focus on improving nuptial bonds, was not designed to answer. As changes in the texts of
                    Kinsey's lectures show, over time he focused less on how a healthy sex life enriches and
                    stabilizes marriage and more on a broad range of human sexual experience. While the question of sex
                    in marriage would remain one focus of Kinsey's analysis, it would no longer be the only
                    one.
                Changes in Kinsey's lectures during the marriage course show his increased interest in
                    applying his own version of scientific method to sex research. The importance of a biological
                    approach to social problems, which Kinsey first learned from his graduate advisor, William Morton
                    Wheeler, became increasingly clear to him as he gathered sex histories and read more widely in the
                    developing field of sexology. As historian Stephen Garton has written, the study of early sex
                    research "is a means of exploring how sexologists, psychiatrists, hygienists, sociologists,
                    and reformers constructed commonplace knowledge about sex." This article shows how Kinsey
                    constructed human sexuality, for his students and for himself, using his conception of scientific
                    method. Based on more than twenty years of biological research, he learned (and taught) that a large
                    sample size and broad geographic distribution were necessary if a research project were to yield
                    significant results. Those precepts, combined with faith in standard scientific method (observation,
                    recording, and interpretation of naturally occurring entities and events), would be solid
                    foundations on which he could base valid conclusions. As he wrote to his friend and former graduate
                    student Ralph Voris in late 1939, "We will prove to these social scientists [psychologists,
                    psychiatrists, and sociologists] that a biological background can help in interpreting social
                    phenomena." After he gave up the marriage course in September 1940, Kinsey was able to
                    devote most of his research time to gathering sex histories, downplaying the counseling angle of the
                    individual conference, refining his interviewing technique, and figuring out patterns in his data,
                    using scientific method as he did so.3
                To understand the history of sexuality, it is important to chronicle both national (even global)
                    figures like Kinsey who have shaped societal 
                        Stephen Garton, Histories of Sexuality: Antiquity to Sexual Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 2004), 200; William Morton Wheeler, "The Termitodoxa, or Biology and
                            Society," in Foibles of Insects and Men (1920; 
                                New York
                            , 1928), 205-17; Alfred C. Kinsey to Ralph Voris, c. October 1939, Voris File,
                            Alfred C. Kinsey Correspondence Collection [hereafter KCC], Kinsey Institute Archives.
                        
                    
                    ideas about sexual behavior, and those individuals who changed
                    their sexual behavior and mindset as a result of new knowledge and shifts in contemporary social
                    mores. Much of what we can learn about IU students' reactions to the marriage course comes
                    from their written course evaluations. Students not only provided feedback on the course itself but
                    also defended it against campus gossip, supporting Kinsey as pressure for his resignation grew.
                    Their comments suggest how seriously they took the course and reveal their dislike of lecturers who
                    spoke in unhelpful generalities or predicted married lives full of strife. The comments also provide
                    insight into the development of Kinsey's thinking and teaching on sex and suggest how young
                    people in a small midwest- ern college town were managing their sexual feelings and desires.4
                Finally, I contest the common perception that the IU marriage course and Kinsey's sex
                    research in general were the products of Kinsey's overripe obsession with sex, as
                    biographer James H. Jones has argued. Jones postulates that Kinsey moved from studying gall wasps to
                    studying human sexuality with such intensity and thoroughness because he was driven by guilt about
                    his homosexuality, masturbation, and self-mutilation. For Jones, all of Kinsey's work is
                    rooted in that guilt, despite the fact that Kinsey himself never made connections between his
                    personality, his sexual identity, and his work, and despite the fact that Jones admits that
                    "almost certainly, Kinsey did not consider himself a homosexual or masochist."5 Compounding the difficulty of Jones's theory, most of his claims
                    about Kinsey's sex life come from interviews with three anonymous sources. Neither Jones
                    nor his fellow Kinsey biographer Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy, who interviewed the same anonymous
                    individuals, has released the interview transcripts for other scholars to verify. Facing
                    unverifiable quotes from anonymous sources, it is difficult to lend credence to such claims about
                    the relationship of Kinsey's sex life and work. Instead, this article will suggest that
                    Kinsey's interest in studying sexuality stemmed from his failure to advance a
                        comprehensive
                        
                            4Beth Bailey, Sex in the Heartland (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1999), 5.
                        5James H. Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey: A Public/Private
                            Life ( 
                                New York
                            , 1997), 170. For further examples of guilt as a motivating factor for
                            Kinsey's research, see pp. 22-23, 76, 288, 353, 368, 391-94, 481-82, 518-19, 532,
                            607-10, 738, 753, 772-73. In his review of Alfred C. Kinsey, the historian
                            Thomas Laqueur criticized Jones's work for "the absence of even the
                            semblance of evidence for Kinsey's inner state." Thomas Laqueur,
                            "Sexual Behavior in the Social Scientist: Was Alfred Kinsey a Pioneer or a
                            Pervert?," Slate, November 5, 1997. Available from
                            http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe (December 15, 2006). 
                    
                    
                    
                        Alfed C. Kinsey examining a Schmitt box of gall wasps, 1940 By 1940, prompted
                            by his findings in the marriage course, Kinsey was moving away from the taxonomic work he
                            had done with wasps and toward his grounddbreaking work on human sexuality. Indiana
                            University Arbutus 
                     theory of evolution through his gall wasp work. As Kinsey had consistently taught sex
                    education methods to college students and heredity to high school students, he was well positioned
                    to bring the techniques of scientific method to bear on a topic he had already examined from a
                    biologist's perspective. As Kinsey's entomological career slowed following a
                    poorly received book on evolution, he sought to make his mark on another field in which he already
                    had a measure of expertise. The marriage course was a pivotal moment in Kinsey's life, as
                    he turned from studying gall wasps toward studying human sexuality, with his full com plement of
                    taxonomic skills intact.6
                
                    
                        6Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey, 322, 335-36, 338, 343,
                        346-47;Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy Kinsey: Sex he Measure of All Things A Life of
                            Alfred C. Kinsey (1998; 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 2004) 
                
                
                Marriage courses in the 
                        United States
                    were one way that social reformers sought to address what they viewed as the
                    "marriage crisis" of the 1920s and 1930s. The 1920s had seen significant changes
                    in gender roles and sexual mores in American society: woman suffrage, the rise of popular
                    Freudianism, public debates over artificial birth control (and thus the separation of sex from
                    procreation), an increasingly visible youth culture, and the rise of what Colorado judge Ben Lindsey
                    would name "companionate marriage." In this type of marriage, romantic love and
                    sexual congruence took priority over financial stability and family background, and adults made
                    their own choices about partners with little to no parental input, no expectation of children, few
                    moral qualms about divorce, and unproblematic use of pre- and post-marital birth con- trol. In his
                    desire to hold on to some traditional values in the face of such increasingly popular marital
                    choices, Ernest Groves, a sociology professor at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
                    began teaching junior and senior men the skills he thought they needed to navigate dating and mating
                    in a new social climate. Drawing from his classes and from his individual conferences with many of
                    the students, Groves wrote a textbook on marriage education; and with the publication of Marriage in 1933, the pedagogical movement began in earnest.7
                By 1938--when Kinsey began the IU marriage course--marriage education in high schools and colleges
                    was a small industry, with approximately 250 U.S. colleges and universities hosting such courses.
                    Marriage courses often combined lecture and small-group discussion, or lecture and individual
                    conferences with instructors as regular features. The most prominent figures in marriage
                    education--including Groves, Joseph Kirk Folsom (Vassar College), and Henry Bowman (Stephens
                    College)--used the personal conference as part of standard marriage course practice. Evidence does
                    not support Jones's statement that "[student] conferences allowed Kinsey to
                    transform his private needs into professional duty," at least not in that
                    statement's implication that Kinsey's conferences were somehow uniquely
                    voyeuristic. Kinsey dif-
                        7Estelle Freedman and John D'Emilio, Intimate
                                Matters: A History of Sexuality in America ( 
                                New York
                            , 1988), 265; Rebecca L. Davis, "'Not Marriage at All, but
                            Simple Harlotry': The Companionate Marriage Controversy," Journal ofAmerican History, 94 (March 2008, forthcoming); Beth Bailey,
                            "Scientific Truth…and Love: The Marriage Education Movement in the 
                                United States
                            ," Journal of Social History, 20 (Summer 1987), 715;
                            Howard W. Odum, introduction to American Marriage and Family
                            Relationships, by Ernest R. Groves and William E Ogbur ( 
                                New York
                            , 1928), 5; Ernest R. Groves, Marriage ( 
                                New York
                            , 1933), vii-viii.
                    
                    fered from other marriage education instructors not because he
                    conducted personal conferences during his marriage course, but because those personal interviews
                    came to take priority as a means of gathering scientific data on sexuality.8
                Kinsey's shift from studying gall wasps to the marriage course, and then to studying human
                    sexual behavior, came in the context of more general changes in the study of entomology and
                    evolution. By the mid-1930s, Kinsey's taxonomy-based gall wasp research was increasingly
                    out of sync with the laboratory-based focus of the new intellectual movement known as the
                    evolutionary synthesis. He learned, from presenting his own evolutionary theory at a 1936 meeting of
                    the American Association for the Advancement of Science, that the audiences for evolutionary studies
                    expected synthetic theories with broad applications, regardless of his insistence on the limited
                    nature of his conclusions. Kinsey was not interested in changing his entomological research
                    methodology to match evolutionary theory's new emphasis on mathematical population
                    genetics, so he made a decision, over time, to adapt his scientific method to a human research
                        population.9
                Kinsey's fifteen years of work with secondary science educators (and students in the field)
                    on the teaching problems associated with the subject of human reproduction also factored into his
                    decision to become involved in the marriage course. His guide to teaching high school
                        8"The Future Adventure," Living, 1
                            (January 1939), 18; Henry Bowman, "Report of Committee on College Courses in
                            Preparation for Marriage," Marriage and Family Living, 3 (May
                            1941), 37; "First Marriage Course Given to Seniors at North Carolina," Michigan Daily, September 27, 1938, p. 17. For examples of marriage course
                            instructors using the individual sex conference, see J. Stewart Burgess, "The
                            College and the Preparation for Marriage and Family Relationships," Living, 1 (May-August 1939), 39-42; Mary A. Johnson, "A Course in Human
                            Relations at Brooklyn College," Living, 1 (November 1939), 73-74;
                            Moses Jung, "The Course in Modern Marriage at the State University of
                            Iowa," Living, 1 (May-August 1939), 43, 50; Jones, Alfred C.
                            Kinsey, 346-64, esp. 353; Bailey, "Scientific Truth…and Love,"
                            721-22. For Groves's and Bowman's use of the individual sex conference,
                            see Henry Bowman, "The Marriage Course at Stephens College," Marriage and Family Living, 3 (February 1941), 8-9, 11; Bowman, Flora Thurston,
                            and Margaret Wylie, "The Teacher as Marriage and Family Counseler [sic],"
                                Marriage and Family Living, 6 (November 1944), 76-78; Groves, Marriage, x.
                        9Alfred C. Kinsey, The Origin of Higher Categories in
                                Cynips (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1936); Kinsey, "Supra-Specific Variation in Nature and in
                            Classification from the View-Point of Zoology," American
                            Naturalist, 71 (May-June 1937), 206-22; George Gaylord Simpson,
                            "Supra-Specific Variation in Nature and in Classification from the View-Point of
                            Paleontology," American Naturalist, 71 (May-June 1937), 236-67;
                            Richard Goldschmidt, "Cynips and Lymatria," American
                                Naturalist, 71 (September-October 1937), 508-14; Theodosius Dobzhansky, Genetics and the Origin of Species (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 137, 229, 245, 257. 
                    
                    biology (Methods in Biology) and archival
                    records of his involvement in Indiana high school biology curriculum development suggest that he had
                    given considerable thought to the problem of teaching human sexuality (including masturbation and
                    venereal disease) and reproduction to young people before the marriage course began. He argued in
                        Methods in Biology that if sex and reproduction were taught without
                    "any reference to the social and moral problems involved, and above all avoiding any
                    emotional display in the presentation of the material, the reactions of the students should present
                    no difficulties." Kinsey also identified a more serious problem underlying poor sex
                    education. "Under the guise of science," he continued, "we too often have
                    sex instruction which is a curious even if a well-intentioned mixture of superstition, religious
                    evaluation, and a mere perpetuation of social custom." Kinsey thought it best to use his
                    version of the scientific method (large sample size, wide geographic distribution, and data obtained
                    by observation) for evaluating materials to teach high school students about biology and human
                    reproduction. His approach to teaching college students about sex would be no different.10
                In early 1938, an informal IU student group, including leaders of the Association of Women Students
                    (AWS), contacted Kinsey about chairing a course in the summer. There were many reasons why some
                    among the 6,000-member IU student body became interested in hosting a marriage course. First, some
                    students had likely become aware of the growing number of marriage courses at other campuses through
                    reading the Indiana Daily Student "Collegiana" column (which
                    compiled news from campuses across the country). Second, college-aged men and women were acquiring
                    venereal diseases (mostly gonorrhea and syphilis) in increasing numbers across the country in the
                    late 1930s, and students may have wanted advice on how to prevent infection before marriage or on
                    how to manage the effects of the diseases. Third, students had grown increasingly less interested in
                    the kinds of vague advice 
                        10Alfred C. Kinsey, spring 1932 final exam, May 31, 1932, folder 3,
                            series VA.6, box II, Kinsey Collection; "Dr. Kinsey to Conduct Round Table
                            Discussion on High School Biology," Indiana Daily Student [hereafter IDS], July 30, 1938, p. 4; "Faculty Members to Give Talks at Extension
                            Center," IDS, February 4, 1939, p. 2; Minutes of American
                            Association for the Advancement of Science in General Education, April 30-May 1, 1938, 
                                Columbus
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , folder 4, series V.C., box II, Kinsey Collection; [Indiana] Committee on
                            Secondary School Science Curriculum, "Tentative Draft of Science Education in
                            Indiana High Schools," February 1943, folder 5, series VC., box II, Kinsey
                            Collection; Kinsey, Methods in Biology (
                                Chicago
                            , 1937), 200-201.
                    
                    
                        "Relation between Penis and Structures at Sides of Vagina,"
                            Robert Latou Drickinson, Human Sex Anatomy (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1933) Alfred Kinsey made lantern slides from this book to show students in the
                            IU marriage course, 1938-1940. Courtesy Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender, and
                            Reproduction
                    
                    offered by religion-oriented marriage educators, including
                    longtime campus marriage instructor and IU School of Medicine professor Thurman B. Rice. Rice
                    thought that couples should not learn anything about sex before marriage but instead should learn
                    through trial and error afterward. The information in his marriage course lectures never went beyond
                    vague comparisons to amphibian and mammalian reproduction. IU students also regularly complained in
                    the IDS about the dullness and uselessness of Hygiene 101, a required one-hour
                    health course for campus freshmen. Fourth, Kinsey was already discussing sex education in his
                    biology pedagogy classes for secondary education students, and those students would have been aware
                    of his expertise in the subject. There was a ready on-campus audience for a course on marriage that
                    offered some clear and practical advice on its realities, including sex, law, economics, pregnancy,
                    and family dynamics.11
                Furthermore, recent local crackdowns on student life, both on and off campus, may have fostered
                    general student discontent with IU authorities. In November 1937, soon-to-retire Dean of Women Agnes
                    Wells forced the closing of a popular off-campus bar, Nick's English Hut, for being less
                    than two hundred feet from a church. But students--underage and over twenty-one--still knew where to
                    obtain moonshine and homebrew Female students were banned from smoking on campus but lit up anyway,
                    and students owned cars in ever-higher numbers even though they were forbidden from driving on
                    campus. Cars literally moved the university's social life off-campus, and opportunities for
                    unsupervised mixed-sex outings expanded significantly. In their second sociological study of
                        Muncie
                    , 
                        Indiana> , Middletown in Transition (1937), 
                        11"Enrollment Figures Show All-Time High of 6,106 Students at
                            Indiana University," IDS, October 8, 1938, p. 1;
                            "Collegiana," IDS, October 13, 1937; "Scannin'
                            Collegiana," IDS, February 12, 1938, p. 4; "Include Sex Education Course in Curriculum, Say Students," Michigan Daily, October 19, 1938, p. 1; Allan M. Brandt, No Magic
                                Bullet: A Social History of Venereal Disease in the United States since 1880 (
                                New York
                            , 1985), 147-49; "University Physician Favors Student Wasserman
                            Tests," IDS, February 15, 1938, p. 1; "For a Progressive
                            Indiana," IDS, February 15, 1938, p. 4; IDS,
                            April 17, 1938, p. 4. Wasserman tests had become available at the University of Kansas in
                            December 1937; see Bailey, Sex in the Heartland, 225n19. "Dr. Thurman B. Rice to
                            Speak at Meet: I. U. Medical Professor to Lead Discussions on Marriage at Summer
                            Conference," IDS, May 28, 1938, p. 3; Katharine Bement Davis, Factors in the Sex Life of Twenty-Two Hundred Women (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 66-67; Julian B. Carter, "Birds, Bees, and Venereal Disease:
                            Toward an Intellectual History of Sex Education," Journal of the
                                History of Sexuality, 10 (April 2001), 244-45; letter to the editor, IDS, March 8, 1938, p. 4; letter to the editor, IDS, October 31,
                            1939, p. 4; letter to the editor, IDS, November 8, 1939, p. 4.
                    
                    Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd pointed out that young
                    people increasingly used the freedom and privacy of the automobile for intimate encounters, even as
                    teachers, librarians, and parents refused them information about sex. Requesting a marriage course
                    that offered more detailed and practical information than the obligatory hygiene course or the
                    Christian-based lectures advertised in the weekly religion section of the IDS may
                    have been another way for students to express their discontent with the extant rules governing their
                    mobility and actions, to learn more scientifically about their bodies, and to study the behaviors in
                    which some of them were already engaging.12
                Fourteen students, including leaders of the AWS, Pan-Hellenic Council, Inter-Fraternity Council, and
                    Blue Key, signed the original petition, given to new university president Herman B Wells on May 14,
                        1938.13 The marriage course also had the initial support of the new dean of
                    women, Kate Hevner Mueller. It is not clear if the AWS asked Kinsey to lead the course or if he
                    offered to do so; in any event, he became its chair. (While Jones and Gathorne-Hardy both state that
                    Kinsey approached the AWS to volunteer to lead the course, the two AWS members whom they interviewed
                    could not remember who approached whom. Mueller thought that Kinsey volunteered to give the course
                    but could only confirm that her office was not involved in starting it.) The IU Board of Trustees
                    approved the request on June 9, 1938, and Kinsey recruited seven other IU faculty and staff members
                    to lecture on their areas of specialty Part of their work as a group involved becoming familiar with
                    literature on marriage education, family life, reproductive biology, and sexuality The new chair was
                    no exception, although he already had ideas on how to teach the last topic. Kinsey wrote letters
                    requesting 
                        12Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern
                            Pioneer: Vol. 3, Years of Fulfillment (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1977), 57-61; Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, Middletown in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 168-69, 171; Theodore Newcomb, "Recent Changes in Attitudes
                            toward Sex and Marriage," American Sociological Review, 2 (October 1937), 662, 667;
                            Joseph K. Folsom, "Changing Values in Sex and Family Relations," American Sociological Review, 2 (October 1937), 720-22; William S.
                            Bernard, "Student Attitudes on Marriage and the Family," American Sociological Review, 3 (June 1938), 356, 359-60.
                        "The marriage course at the University of Michigan was also formed by a joint
                            student-faculty committee. See "Sale of Tickets for Marriage Lecture Series is
                            Tomorrow," Michigan Daily, October 30, 1938, p. 1;
                            "Marriage and the Campus," Michigan Daily, November 2,
                            1938, p. 4; Marriage Relations Course File, Bentley Historical Library, University of
                            Michigan, 
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            .
                    
                    information from other college marriage educators and read
                    transcripts of published college marriage courses. He also found illustrations for his lectures from
                    the obstetrician/gynecologist Robert Latou Dickinson's Human Sex Anatomy
                    (1933). After working through the suggested readings, the instructors also previewed each
                    other's lectures, as did many of their spouses, in order to offer feedback and critique
                    before presenting them to course participants. The marriage course was ready for its first student
                        audience.14
                The first notice for the summer 1938 marriage course in the classified section of the IDS stated its basics: "A non-credit series of twelve lectures on legal,
                    economic, sociologic, psychologic, and biological aspects of marriage will be available for the
                    first time during the Summer Session." The course would remain elective throughout its
                    history so that students would attend because they wanted to, not just to gain extra credits.
                    Lectures took place on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7 p.m., and
                        14Board of Trustees Minutes, June 9, 1938, vol. II, pp. 259-60,
                            Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Indiana> ;
                            Christine Carlson et al. to Herman B Wells, May , 1938, Kinsey Marriage Course File, Wells
                            Papers, Indiana University Archives; Bloomington Daily Telephone, June 23,
                            1938, p. 8; Herman B Wells, Being Lucky: Reminiscences and Reflections (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1980), 100; Clara MacMillen Kinsey, interview by James H. Jones,
                            typescript, December 10, 1971, Center for the Study of History and Memory, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Indiana> ;
                            Kate Hevner Mueller, interview by James H. Jones, p. 18, typescript, April 1, 1971, Center
                            for the Study of History and Memory; Kate Hevner Mueller to Alfred C. Kinsey, October 25,
                            1938, Mueller File, KCC; Beth Bailey, "Scientific Truth...and Love,"
                            718-20; Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey, 322, 326, 828n36, 829n53; GathorneHardy
                            Kinsey, 124-25, 151, 473n2. Kinsey's recommended options for the marriage course
                            faculty included: Davis, Factors in the Sex Life of Twenty-Two Hundred
                            Women; Gerrit S. Miller Jr., The Primate Basis of Human Sexual Behavior," Quarterly Review of Biology, 6 (December 1931), 379-410; William S.
                            Taylor, A Critique of Sublimation in Males (
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., 1933). Marriage course faculty reading list, c. June 1938, folder 1,
                            series VA. .k, box II, Kinsey Collection. Hannah M. Stone and Abraham Stone, A
                                Marriage Manual: A Practical Guide-Book to Sex and Marriage (
                                New York
                            , 1935); Raymond Squier, "The Medical Basis of Intelligent Sexual
                            Practice," in Plan for Marriage: An Intelligent Approach to Marriage
                                and Parenthood, ed. Joseph Kirk Folsom (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 113-37. Robert Latou Dickinson, Human Sex Anatomy: A
                                Topographical Hand Atlas (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1933);Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey, 831n18. Herman B Wells to
                            Fowler Harper et al., July 9, 1938, Wells File, KCC; Kinsey to Wells, July 19, 1938, Wells
                            File, KCC; Wells to Kinsey, July 21, 1938, Wells File, KCC; Edith Schuman, interview by
                            James H. Jones, typescript, September 15, 1971, Center for the Study of History and Memory;
                            Kinsey, "Indiana University Marriage Course-Fall 1938," c. November 1938,
                            folder 1, series VA.1.1, box II, Kinsey Collection; Harvey J. Locke, "Outline of
                            Family Disorganization," July 28, 1938, Marriage Course 1942-43, Folder (9081-25),
                            John H. Mueller Papers, Indiana University Archives.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Chemistry Building at Indiana University c. 1931 The marriage course
                            lectures were held in the building's auditorium. Courtesy Indiana University
                            Archives
                     applicants (who had to be married, engaged, or have senior class standing) needed to meet
                    with Kinsey for admission. The location of the first session of the course is not clear, but from
                    the fall 1938 session onward the sessions took place in the 1U Chemistry Building auditorium.
                    Ninety-eight students (twenty-eightmen, seventy women) signedup for the first session of the course.
                    The preponderance of women in this first session was likely due to the support of the AWS and the
                    presence of the six male instructors' wives.15
                "Biologic Bases of Society" the opening lecture of the first session of the 1U
                    marriage course, echoed the language that Kinsey had used in Methods in Biology to
                    discuss teaching sex education in secondary schools. Kinsey began by pointing out that, in contrast
                    to the significant amount of research on the reproductive behaviors of social insects, research on
                    human pairing and sex behavior was comparatively scanty, and that general information about it was
                    more often based on "gossip and guesses" than on scientific fact. Human marriage,
                    he went on, was 
                        
                            15"Course in Marriage," IDS,June 22,
                            1938, p. 3; "Summary of Student Answers," August 1938, folder 1, series
                            VA.1.1, box II, Kinsey Collection. 
                    
                    necessary to protect and raise children, but delaying sexual
                    intercourse often psychologically damaged those who remained virgins until wed. Delaying marriage
                    until the mid-twenties, as was increasingly common, not only precluded adjusting to another
                    person's sexual desires and becoming familiar with one's own, but also made
                    adjusting to married life difficult in general. Given that taboos against premarital intercourse
                    were unlikely to change anytime soon, and "adequate and mutually satisfying means of
                    contraception" were unreliable or hard to obtain, the marriage course would provide tools
                    for students to tackle their difficul- ties. Kinsey concluded his lecture by telling students that
                    "each man in his own field will present something of the special material which will
                    provide the material by which you can work out your own solution." While he did not
                    explicitly advise students to experiment with sex before marriage, many students heard this lecture
                    as a tacit admission that doing so would be good for their health.16
                Kinsey's second lecture, "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology," was the
                    fifth in the series. He showed black-and-white lantern slides of male and female embryonic genitalia
                    in development, then genitals of mature men and women. He informed students that coitus was
                    impossible without erection, but that women did not need to be aroused for intercourse to occur; and
                    that the clitoris, not the vagina, was the primary source of women's stimulation, although
                    many men were unaware of this. The next slides were of penile erection, aroused male and female
                    genitals, and different coital positions, all from Dickinson's Human Sex
                        Anatomy. Kinsey briefly covered pregnancy prophylaxis (tubal ligation, vasectomy, condoms,
                    and diaphragms) but warned the audience that his lecture was only a glimpse of what sex was and what
                    it meant in marriage:
                        It is quite possible to know all that need be known about the anatomy and physiology of
                            reproduction and still grasp nothing of its art, but our excuse for bringing you this much
                            of such material is a conviction that absolute ignorance makes it impos-
                                16Alfred C. Kinsey, "Biologic Bases of
                                    Society," June 28, 1938, pp. 1, 7, 11, folder 1, series VA. .g, box II,
                                    Kinsey Collection; Howard M. Parshley, The Science of Human
                                        Reproduction: Biological Aspects of Sex (
                                        New York
                                    , 1933), 300-301, 304; Davis, Factors in the Sex Life of
                                        Twenty-Two Hundred Women, 65; Squier, "Medical Basis of
                                    Intelligent Sexual Practice," 125, 127-28; Phyllis Blanchard and Carlyn
                                    Manasses, New Girls for Old (
                                        New York
                                    , 1937), 191. 
                            
                                 "Contraceptive devices," Dickinson, Human Sex Anatomy Illustrations like this one showed marriage course
                                    students the proper position of prophylactics. Courtesy Kinsey Institute for
                                    Research in Sex, Gender, and Reproduction, Inc.
                             sible to become a master of anything. So I
                            give you this much and we [the other instructors] give you the material in the later hours
                            with the conviction that knowledge can do no harm and may be the means of working out
                            adjustments that are fundamental
                    . At the end of this lecture, Kinsey reiterated the theme of his first address, that the
                    "art" of sex was essential to happy marriages. Ideas on how to learn that art
                    might be found in books such as A Marriage Manual (which he recommended for
                    student reading) and Human Sex Anatomy, but Kinsey subtly placed more emphasis on
                    "working out adjustments" in practice than on reading about them. Reproductive
                    Anatomy" was as explicit as lectures on sex in marriage education courses got, mirroring
                    lectures by physicians such as Raymond Squier at Vassar College.17 In this
                    lecture, however, Kinsey left the question of when students should actually learn the art of
                    reproduction--before or after marriage--unanswered.
                In "Individual Variation", the seventh lecture in the series, Kinsey emphasized the
                    variations of human genitals and sexual behavior. Kinsey drew graphs on the chalkboard of average
                    clitoris and penis lengths, showing in some cases how their lengths overlapped. His aim in doing so
                    was to show how men and women diverge both within and between the sexes, and to demonstrate that
                    these divergences blur rather than reify sexual differences. Furthermore, Kinsey advised, there was
                    no such thing as abnormal behavior, as "nearly all of the so-called sexual perversions fall
                    within the range of biologic normality." As many men were ignorant of the fact that female
                    orgasm was comparable to male orgasm, they needed to learn that most women needed manual stimulation
                    of the clitoris to ensure sufficient lubrication for penetration and orgasm. While women could have
                    intercourse without being aroused, as Kinsey had stated in the "Reproductive Anatomy and
                    Physiology" lecture, if their husbands were skilled lovers there was no 
                        17Squier, "Medical Basis of Intelligent Sexual
                            Practice," 119; Alfred C. Kinsey, "Reproductive Anatomy and
                            Physiology," July 12, 1938, p. 13, folder 1, series VA.I.b, box II, Kinsey
                            Collection; Stone and Stone, Marriage Manual, 158-59; Davis, Factors in the Sex Life of Twenty Two Hundred Women, 66-67, 69; Carter,
                            "Birds, Bees, and Venereal Disease" 238-39, 247; Jessamyn Neuhaus,
                            "The Importance of Being Orgasmic: Sexuality, Gender, and Marital Sex Manuals in
                            the United States, 1920-1963," Journal of the History of
                            Sexuality, 9 (April 2000), 456-57. 
                    reason that they should have to. Knowledge of individual
                    variation in marriage would lead to mutual respect and understanding as partners worked patiently
                    toward achieving what Kinsey posited as a primary goal of marital coitus--not children, but
                    simultaneous orgasm. This lecture, like "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology,"
                    informed students that their bodies and thoughts were normal, that it would take time to reach a
                    mutually satisfying pattern of behavior, and that orgasmic equality (with the implied use of birth
                    control) was a crucial element in successful marriages.18
                Law professor Fowler V. Harper delivered the second and fourth lectures, which outlined basic legal
                    guidelines and procedures for marriage and divorce. The third lecture, probably by Kate Mueller,
                    does not survive. Zoology professor Robert L. Kroc gave the sixth lecture of the course,
                    "Endocrine Basis of Sex and Reproduction." Kroc discussed male and female hormonal
                    development, menstruation, ovulation, pregnancy, and menopause. He also told the students that women
                    could not depend upon a safe time in their hormonal cycle to prevent pregnancy; he recommended
                    condoms, diaphragms, or abstinence as reliable forms of birth control.19
                After Kinsey's lecture on variations, Edmund S. Conklin, chair of the psychology department,
                    spoke on the psychology of sex and love. Conklin downplayed the importance of sex in marriage and
                    emphasized many other possible reasons for marital unhappiness. The next lecture, given by Kroc,
                    covered the biological reasons for fertility and sterility. The final lectures of the course came
                    from sociologist Harvey Locke, who dourly surveyed the state of modern marriage and who, like
                    Conklin, downplayed sex as a basic factor in marital happiness; campus women's doctor Edith
                    Schuman, who spoke mostly about venereal diseases and their effects on women and children; and
                    history professor Albert L. Kohlmeier, who praised the role of marriage in human devel-
                        18Alfred C. Kinsey, "Individual Variation," July 19,
                            1938, pp. 1, 5, folder 3, series VA. .b, box II, Kinsey Collection; Squier,
                            "Medical Basis of Intelligent Sexual Practice," 120; Stone and Stone, Marriage Manual, 172-73; Neuhaus, "The Importance of Being
                            Orgasmic," 450, 457-58; Blanchard and Manasses, New Girls for
                            Old, 196, 198; Paul Popenoe, Preparing for Marriage (
                                Los Angeles
                            , 1938), 10-12.
                        19Fowler V Harper, "The Legal Aspects of Marriage
                            1," June 30, 1938, folder 3, series VA. .d, box II, Kinsey Collection; Harper,
                            "Legal Aspects II," July 7, 1938, folder 4, series V.A. d, box II, Kinsey
                            Collection; Robert L. Kroc, "Endocrine Basis of Sex and Reproduction,"
                            July 14, 1938, folder 2, series V.A. .b, box II, Kinsey Collection.
                    
                    opment but also advised against "too much" sex
                    or sex in "vulgar" yet unspecified ways.20 Thus the first IU
                    marriage course contained a series of competing messages about marriage, sexuality, sexual
                    practices, and men's and women's roles in intimate relationships.
                After the second-to-last lecture, Kinsey passed out questionnaires to the students. He compiled the
                    anonymous data (except for gender) from all ninety-eight, recording his aggregate results on a copy
                    of one of the forms. He (or an assistant) then typed out the written comments in long lists, one for
                    the course as a whole and others for each lecture individually The questionnaire began with a series
                    of general queries about the entire course; ninety-seven respondents said the biology section was
                    most significant to them and fifty-five wanted the "Individual Variation" lecture
                    to expand into two lectures, one focusing on sex education for children. The respondents agreed that
                    men and women should hear the lectures together; that the course should continue as a noncredit
                    elective; and that enforcing mandatory attendance at all lectures reinforced the importance of
                    attending the whole series. Kinsey noted that he had met with thirty-two students individually
                    regarding "marital problems and personal sex adjustments." Those conferences, as
                    Kinsey would tell Herman Wells, were not just opportunities for advice, but actually became the
                    first sex histories Kinsey collected. He kept the specific data from his conferences confidential
                    but shared the results of the questionnaire with Wells and the other instructors.21
                Students responded enthusiastically to the course as a whole. According to their comments, the course
                    gave them confidence about themselves, fulfilled a genuine need for knowledge not available
                    elsewhere, gave them new understandings of life, and fostered healthy attitudes about marriage. And
                    while the instructors had largely intended the
                        20Edmund S. Conklin, untitled lecture, July 21, 1938, folder 4, series
                            VA.1.b, box 11, Kinsey Collection; Robert L. Kroc, "Human Sterility," July
                            26, 1938, folder 5, series VA. .b, box 11, Kinsey Collection; Harvey J. Locke,
                            "Family Disorganization," July 28, 1938, folder 6, series VA. .b, box 11,
                            Kinsey Collection; Edith Schuman, "Medical Aspects of Marriage," August 2,
                            1938, folder 7, series V.A. .b, box 11, Kinsey Collection; Albert L. Kohlmeier,
                            "Ethical Aspects of Marriage," August 4, 1938, folder 8, series VA. .b,
                            box 11, Kinsey Collection.
                        21Locke, "Family Disorganization," pp. 1, 9;
                            "Summary of Student Answers," August 1938. Lectures were transcribed from
                            the original presentation in order that students who missed lectures might read them. Kinsey
                            occasionally spoke before or after a lecture, and his comments were recorded on the
                            typescript.
                    course for senior collegians, a slightly older woman
                    (perhaps a faculty wife or graduate student) wrote in detail about how the course material affected
                    her: 
                        30 yrs., female, married. I can't say I had any particular need to be met now-but it
                            was of the greatest interest to me that had I heard the lecture on Individual Variation
                            several years ago it would not have taken my husband and me several years of patient
                            endeavor to have worked out a certain aspect of sexual adjustment, for we would have been
                            put on the right track and needn't have worried and experimented our way along
                            ignorantly until we finally stumbled upon the solution to our problem.
                    Comments on the first session of the marriage course strengthened Kinsey's
                    conviction "that knowledge can do no harm and may be the means of working out adjustments
                    that are fundamental." For the woman quoted above, earlier knowledge of genital anatomy and
                    the basic mechanics of arousal, coitus, and orgasm would have saved her and her husband years of
                    unsatisfactory sex and probably tension over other matters as well. Indeed, in 1928 Katharine Bement
                    Davis had found that while 257 of 438 women said that knowing more about sex beforehand would have
                    helped them adjust to married life, only 29 thought that that knowledge would have caused them harm.
                    In his obstetrical practice, Dickinson also discovered that women had orgasms more easily from
                    marital coitus if they had had a premarital medical exam and sex instruction, if not premarital sex.
                    Based in part on work like Davis's and Dickinson's, Kinsey's lectures in
                    particular struck a chord with the audience. The first session of the marriage course was a
                        success.21
                The marriage course was taught a second time in the fall semester of 1938. Word had clearly spread
                    among returning students; the IDS published two articles and an enthusiastic
                    editorial, stating that IU was now among the 250 American colleges and universities offering such
                        a
                        22"Summary of Student Answers," August 1938; Kinsey,
                            "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology," p. 13; Davis, Factors
                                in the Sex Life of Twenty-Two Hundred Women, 66; Robert Latou Dickinson, A Thousand Marriages (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1931), 85; Angus MacLaren, Twentieth Century Sexuality: A
                            History (
                                Oxford
                            , 1999), 163-65.
                    course. Kinsey was particularly excited about the case
                    histories he had collected. Wells was impressed with the synopsis of comments from the summer
                    session: "Your summary of student answers to the marriage course questionnaire is
                    sufficient proof of the worthwhileness of the course, if there were no other substantiating
                    evidence." Kinsey also gave copies of the summary to the marriage course staff, telling
                    them that "the results of our questionnaire indicate nearly unanimous approval of our
                    program while offering constructive criticisms that should help in our further
                        presentations."23
                Course content changed and expanded from the summer. Edmund Conklin was not invited back (Kinsey
                    wrote "given one semester only" across the top of Conklin's lecture).
                    Kinsey added a lecture on "Sex Education. New lecturers included Professors Carroll
                    Christenson and James Moffat, who both spoke on the economics of marriage; 
                        Bloomington
                     obstetrician William Reed, who lectured on pregnancy; biologist Raymond Pearl, visiting
                    from Johns Hopkins, who spoke on marital problems using examples from his own case histories; and
                    John Mueller, who discussed the sociology of the family.24
                At the end of the term, Kinsey again compiled the student comments to pass out to course staff,
                    Wells, and the IU trustees. Overall, the students deemed the course a success (some lecturers
                    notwithstanding). While the majority reacted positively to the course as a whole, their comments
                    reflected gendered differences in students' reception of the information. Married and
                    unmarried women admitted that they had been in the dark about sex and were open to hearing about
                    both the spiritual highs and unromanticized lows of marriage. The men as a group wanted as much
                    information as possible about the manifestations of intercourse--more position ideas, illustrations,
                    verbal descriptions, and films. They were also more likely to request instruction on contraception
                    and abortion. Some male students were clearly coming to the marriage course with a measure of sexual
                    experience or knowledge that the women, unless they were
                        23"The Marriage Course," IDS,
                            September 28, 1938, p. 4 and "200 Are Enrolled for 16-Lecture Marriage
                            Course," p. 2; "IU. Will Offer Lecture Course on Marital Life,"
                                IDS, September 20, 1938, p. 3; Alfred C. Kinsey to Herman B Wells,
                            September 12, 1938, Wells File, KCC; Wells to Kinsey, September 14, 1938, Wells File, KCC;
                            Kinsey to marriage course staff, September 12, 1938, folder 1, series VA.1.j, box 11, Kinsey
                            Collection.
                        24Carroll Christenson, "Marriage Course Lecture IV,"
                            [October 5, 1938], folder 4, series V.A. .g, box II, Kinsey Collection; William Reed,
                            "Pregnancy and Labor," [November 16, 1938], folder 7, series VA..g, box
                            11, Kinsey Collection.
                    married, did not--or pretended not to--have. Kinsey and
                    the marriage course staff may or may not have noticed such differences in their audience. If they
                    did, perhaps they thought it best to balance men's unscientific sources of knowledge with
                    women's lack of knowledge and to use scientific data as a means of creating a level playing
                    field for both.25
                Before the spring 1939 series began, Kinsey shared the most recent student evaluations with the
                    marriage course staff. He also updated Voris, a professor at Southwest State Teachers College in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , on the wealth of information he was finding in the case histories. Kinsey's
                    correspondence makes clear that, while some of the sixty-four men and thirty-three women brought
                    more than one problem to the private meetings, a handful of issues preoccupied most of them.
                    Fifty-nine of the students, he wrote, wanted advice on petting, twenty-nine on premarital
                    intercourse, thirty on reproductive anatomy and physiology, and thirty-six on masturbation. Nine
                    also asked about homosexuality. The histories were beginning to dominate Kinsey's
                    attention. In this interval, Kinsey also had an unpleasant exchange with Rice, who thought that the
                    course's lectures on sex were designed for prurient rather than educational purposes.
                    Kinsey was treading on turf that physicians had claimed for themselves, and Rice was angry that he
                    had not been asked to participate in the course. Kinsey replied that Rice's concerns were
                    unfounded, but Rice was unconvinced that Kinsey had genuinely answered his objections: "The
                    course has set up a chain of circumstances over which you have no control, being responsible only
                    for the first link."26
                In early spring 1939, the IDS published articles on the upcoming session of the
                    marriage course, praising its new, more liberal admission policy: any student over twenty-one,
                    regardless of class standing or marital status, could sign up.27 The comments
                    collected at the conclusion of 
                        25"Summary of Student Answers," November 1938;
                            "Indiana University Marriage Course Case Histories," c. November 1938,
                            folder 1, series VA..m, box II, Kinsey Collection.
                        26Alfred C. Kinsey to marriage course staff, January 11, 1939, folder
                            2, series V.A.1.j, box II, Kinsey Collection; Kinsey to Ralph Voris, November 28, 1938,
                            Voris File, KCC; Kinsey to Voris, January 17, 1939, Voris File, KCC; Thurman Rice to Kinsey,
                            February 18, 1939, Rice File, KCC; Kinsey to Rice, February 28, 1939, Rice File, KCC; Rice
                            to Kinsey, March 8, 1939, Rice File, KCC.
                        27The precise composition of the spring 1939 course is not clear, as
                            the lectures for this session no longer exist. Edith Schuman had stepped down after two
                            terms; Raymond Pearl did not return to guest lecture. Schuman, interview; Alfred C. Kinsey
                            to Herman B Wells, May 19, 1939, Wells File, KCC.
                    
                        Thurman B. Rice laying the cornerstone of the Indiana State Board of Health
                            building in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948 Rice opposed Kinsey's marriage course and helped to convince
                            university president Herman B Wells to ask Kinsey to stop chairing the course. Courtesy
                            IUPUI University Library Special Collections and Archives
                     that session of the course continue to show that students had no singular reaction to the
                    presentation of sexual material, although their thoughts on premarital sexual behavior were less
                    clearly gendered than before. Some who had already planned to stay chaste before marriage reported
                    that the sex-related lectures helped them to learn more about their bodies so that they could be
                    better spouses in the future. One man thought that "these discussions tend to discourage
                    fornication, because we realize now that satisfactory intercourse is obtained only after many attempts-- and attempts now out of wedlock will only prove
                    embarrassing." A woman agreed: "I believe a thorough understanding of
                    one's own body means less fear of it. An intelligent attitude makes for a stronger will
                    power and self-control and realization of the importance of preserving a healthy body for marriage." Others wanted to put their sexual knowledge to use
                    immediately or even saw it as a seduction tool. One man declared that "frank discussion
                    never leads to so many maladjustments as repression," and another believed that
                    "most girls are glad to know that the fellow has taken this course. It gives them an
                    assurance to know that if pre-marital intercourse is done the fellow knows plenty about
                    it." All of the students agreed on two principles: that "knowledge can do no
                    harm" and that "you can work out your own solution." What they did with
                    their newfound knowledge was up to them, and in their course comments they expressed appreciation
                    that Kinsey trusted them enough to handle it.28
                Kinsey was a busy man in the summer of 1939, as he was not only leading a fourth session of the
                    marriage course but also beginning to travel to 
                        Chicago
                     and northern 
                        Indiana
                     to begin another sort of research-gathering the sexual histories of homosexual men and
                    their heterosexual friends.29 Inspired by the sex histories he had already taken
                    in the marriage course, he set off to find more. While he considered the job of educating students
                    about marriage important for their health and well-being (in one instance, Kinsey requested that an
                    IU physician pro- vide ongoing treatment for a student with gonorrhea), the data he was gathering
                    about human behavior--and his method for collecting it--had the potential to make a broader impact
                    on American society. He had come to an understanding of the potential significance of his own work,
                    as he began to envision how an objective, scientific approach could transform the study of sexuality
                    beyond marriage and bring it to a wider audience. Kinsey wrote to Voris:
                        28"Marriage Course to Meet Monday," IDS, February 2, 1939, p. 1; "Marriage Course Open to Many," IDS, February 3, 1939, p. 1; "Questionnaires Valuable,"
                                IDS, February 9, 1939, p. 4; Alfred C. Kinsey, "One Prof
                            Says," IDS, February 4, 1939, p. 4. Compiled student
                            questionnaire data, April 1939, folder 8, series V.A. .i, box II, Kinsey Collection.
                            Emphasis in original.
                        29Before the summer session, both Christenson and Kohlmeier resigned
                            from the course in disagreement with Kinsey's emphasis on the
                            "vulgar" aspects of marriage. IU law professor Bernard Gavit replaced
                            Harper in the legal section of the course, and Kinsey replaced Kohlmeier with a pair of
                            lecturers who would discuss marriage in explicitly religious terms: Rev. W E. Moore of the
                            local First Christian Church for the Protestant perspective and Father Thomas Kilfoil of St.
                            Charles Borromeo Church for the Catholic perspective. Fowler V Harper to Alfred C. Kinsey,
                            August 13, 1939, Fowler V. Harper File, KCC; W E. Moore, "Protestant Conception of
                            Marriage," March 20, 1940, folder 14, series VA. le, box 11, Kinsey Collection;
                            Thomas Kilfoil, "The Ethical Aspects of Marriage," February 19, 1940,
                            folder 5, series VA. le, box II, Kinsey Collection.
                    
                        Then, of course, this marriage course program has prospered and multiplied
                            work. In the first four semesters we have had 100, 200, 230, 260=790 students. A few
                            flurries with unfavorable crit icisms from older faculty who had no firsthand knowledge--but
                            even that is gone. The students would do anything for us, their appreciation is so great. We
                            have their written comments at the end of each semester. Several have written personal
                            letters to express their appreciation for their personal benefit. Following your suggestion,
                            we have tapped fraternity house gossip and find the course treated most
                            considerately. The Gridiron [football] banquet brought only one reference to it--a reprimand
                            to a couple of boys for having engaged in biologic activities "without benefit of
                            Kinsey's course in connubial calisthenics"… . [The course] has
                            given us a wealth of material by which, Mr. Man--I hope to prove to the world someday that
                            any subject may be a profitable field for scientific research if zealously pursued and
                            handled with objective scholarship.
                    While Kinsey was willing to pass on a joke about the course to Voris, he also saw the
                    potential to add to scientific knowledge about sexuality, "if zealously pursued and handled
                    with objective scholarship."30
                Before the fall 1939 course began, the student editorial board of the IDS again
                    commended the course for its meaningfulness to a broad variety of participants, from traditional
                    coeds to older attendees. Perhaps members of the editorial board had heard of the resignations of
                    Schuman, Kohlmeier, and Christenson; the objections of Rice; or the unpleasant campus gossip.
                    Whatever the case, IU students were protective of the marriage course and wanted to guard it from
                    administrative interference. Kinsey was also receiving positive responses from others: parents of
                    marriage course students thanked him; former students asked him for personal advice about new
                    marriages and requested sex education lectures in their hometowns; and the director of the
                    Bloomington Hospital nursing school thanked him for his lectures to nursing 
                        30Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey, 369-74; Kinsey to Voris,
                            c. December 1939, Voris File, KCC; Kinsey to Voris, July 6, 1939, Voris File, KCC. Emphasis
                            in original.
                    
                    
                        Indiana Daily Student editorial September 29, 1939 The
                            student newspaper's editorial board defended Kinsey's marriage course at
                            the onset of its fifth session. Courtesy Indiana Daily Student
                     students. As outside criticism of the course grew, the student's defensive
                    posture would only become stronger (as exemplified in the comments for the spring 1940 session)31
                Change was definitely in the air in spring 1940, as the sociology professors (including John H.
                    Mueller, Kate's husband) had resigned from the marriage course as a department. They
                    complained in a letter
                        31"Marriage Course to Begin Monday" IDS, September 21, 1939, p. 1; Alfred C. Kinsey, "Copy of Report to the
                            President and rustees," c. May 1939, folder 3, series V.A.1.j, box 2, Kinsey
                            Collection; "Marriage Course," IDS, September 22, 1939,
                            p. 2; "Marriage Course Shows Increase of 45 This Year," IDS, September 28, 1939, p. 1; "Speaking of Courses," IDS, September 29, 1939, p. 4; R.L. to Kinsey, November 17, 1939, KCC; Kinsey to
                            Mrs. R. L. C., December 19, 1938, KCC; M. A. C. to Kinsey October 7, 1939, KCC; M. E. Y to
                            Kinsey May 15, 1939, KCC.
                    to Wells that "he importance of the work of the
                    sociologists in the course is much less than had been anticipated." Despite that ominous
                    prelude, the spring 1940 session proceeded, with Kinsey giving revised versions of the four lectures
                    that he had given in previous sessions (he added the fourth, "Sex Education," in
                    the fall 1939 session). In "Bases of Society," he asserted that
                    "individuals can reach their finest development as a result of marriage." Such
                    optimism about the place of marriage in the human life cycle had been less prominent earlier in the
                    course, suggesting that Kinsey took seriously students' belief that marriage could indeed
                    be a means to happiness. However, "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology" revealed
                    distinct changes in Kinsey's thinking and teaching over the past year and a half. As he had
                    stated concerning the basics of coitus in a summer 1938 lecture: "It is quite possible to
                    know all that need be known about the anatomy and physiology of reproduction and still grasp nothing
                    of its art." At that time, Kinsey had not gone into detail about how to learn such an art,
                    beyond recommending A Marriage Manual and hinting that premarital experimentation
                    was wise. In this session, Kinsey spent more time on the mental stimulation accompanying arousal,
                    foreplay, and intercourse--not precisely a discussion of the "art" of sex but of
                    how attraction begins and then changes over time:
                        In the human erotic reaction, we depend on a combination of physical and psychological
                            stimulation. The capacity of an individual to respond to a psychological stimulus depends on
                            the previous experience the individual has had, [and] the set that he has toward it, so that
                            ultimately there may be built up such mental associations around sexual contacts that the
                            psychological stimulus alone will bring forth erotic response.
                    In the space of a year and a half, Kinsey had shifted from suggesting that premarital sex
                    would make marital sex more pleasurable--and blaming "prudish ideas" for sexual
                    unreadiness-to testing broader theories on the development of human arousal and sexuality in
                        general32
                
                    32EdwinH. Sutherland to HermanB Wells, January 14, 1940, Wells File, KCC;
                        Alfred C. Kinsey, "Bases of Society," February 5, 1940, p. 1, folder 1, series
                        VA..e, box II, Kinsey Collection; Kinsey, "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology [Summer
                        1938]," July 12, 1938, p. 13, folder 1, series V.A. .b, Kinsey Collection; Kinsey,
                        "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology," February 21, 1940, p. 12, folder 6,
                        series VA. le, box II, Kinsey Collection. Kinsey's findings on the psychology of sexual
                        response would take an entire chapter of Sexual Behavior in the Human Female,
                        and the chapter's introduction would use nearly identical language. Kinsey et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, 642-89, esp. 643-44.
                
                
                The same lecture also included, for the first and only time in the marriage course, Kinsey's
                    thoughts on the relationship between sex and love. Even as he argued for the importance of love and
                    happiness in inspiring and sustaining marital relationships, he insisted that feelings and emotions
                    could not withstand the scientific scrutiny that sex could. Whatever his personal feelings on the
                    subject, he had little use for love as a point of scientific inquiry:
                        Now intercourse consists of a series of physiological reactions which are as mechanical as
                            the blinking of an eyelid… . Emotional acceptance of this series of physiological
                            events may be what you recognize as love. It may provide the inspiration for the writing of
                            the poet, and the philosopher, of all mankind, but fundamentally, at base, the first part of
                            the story is a story of mechanical responses which are as inevitable when the stimuli are
                            provided as any other ordinary reflex of any other part of the body.
                    In this analysis, love was, at its most fundamental level, an emotion that people attributed
                    to a natural desire for intercourse. Perhaps attaching feelings to sex was unique to humans, but the
                    desire for intercourse and reproduction was not, as Kinsey illustrated through the example of male
                    moths following the scent of females from miles away in order to mate with them. Love was not
                    physiological, but it could become part of the "mental associations around sexual
                    contacts" that people would bring to their sex lives. Neither did love guarantee or even
                    portend a mutually satisfying sex life in marriage. Finally, Kinsey added that while birth control
                    may have separated sex from procreation, it did not separate idealizations of love from marriage. In
                    this version of the "Reproductive Anatomy and Physiology" lecture, Kinsey began to
                    articulate one of the guiding principles of his future research: to understand the nature of human
                    sex behavior, it was necessary to divorce sexual behavior fromlove. Behavior and even arousal were quantifiable phenomena that could be observed and studied
                    objectively, but love was not.33
                The 1940 version of the lecture on "Individual Variation," while framed in a
                    marital context, was not much concerned with the wedded life. It was a thumbnail sketch of how
                    Kinsey was beginning to tackle problems beyond the scope of the marriage course. Kinsey articulated
                    three additional developing principles of his sex research: first, that the only kinds of abnormal
                    sex were none at all or those which caused harm; second, that all other forms of sex, however rare,
                    were simply variants on the complex continuum of human behavior; and third, that sex researchers
                    were likely to bias their results according to their own values, and thus should make a special
                    effort to be neutral:
                        There is practically nothing in human sexual behavior … which deserves the term
                            abnormal in the sense that it interferes with physiological well-being. There are cases when
                            you might label a phenomenon abnormal in the sense that it interferes with the well-being of
                            the species and in connection with that the only sexual abnormalities are celibacy, refusal
                            to marry; abstinance [sic], failure to have intercourse; and delayed
                            marriage, and that is a very different list than is ordinarily given in the books. In
                            actuality, the classification into normal and abnormal that is usually made merely
                            represents the type of behavior that the classifier has not happened to engage in
                    Further, Kinsey identified the problem of understanding the interrelationship of the sexual
                    body and social culture, stating that the reasons behind human behavior were never easily
                    explainable: "It is one of the most difficult factors for the student of
                    biology…even more so for the student of sociology to determine how much is environmental
                    and how much is acquired." Even a decade later, when he published Sexual
                        Behavior in the Human Male, Kinsey felt he still had not solved this fundamental problem to
                    his satisfaction, but neither had anyone else.34
                
                    33Alfred C. Kinsey, "Reproductive Anatomy and
                        Physiology," 10-11; J. Howard Howson, "Emotional Maturity and the Approach to
                        Marriage," in Plan for Marriage, ed. Folsom, 60.
                    Alfred C. Kinsey, "Individual Variation," pp. 9, 7, February 28, 1940,
                        folder 8, series VA.l.e, box II, Kinsey Collection; Kinsey, Pomeroy, and Martin, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, pp. 295, 327.
                
                
                Kinsey's last lecture in the spring 1940 series was "Sex Education." He
                    was aware that many in the audience had never heard a forthright lecture on the subject, and so he
                    designed the talk as much for the adults as for their future children. He began by arguing that sex
                    education should be given to children by parents and not "experts." Parents should
                    begin sex instruction when the child was between five and seven years of age, when sex had no erotic
                    connotation and before he or she would begin to learn about it from other children. Both boys and
                    girls needed to know that having sexual feelings was a healthy sign of growing up, and that
                    sublimation of such feelings usually caused emotional harm: "I have seen people who are
                    completely unstrung by the attempt to avoid it and get along without sexual outlets." Boys
                    especially needed to learn that masturbation was not harmful, as they had on average 3.5 orgasms per
                    week in adolescence, compared to less than one for girls. "If you can set your boy straight
                    on that subject you will have saved them eight years of worry."35
                After covering the basic problems faced by adolescents, Kinsey described how he had begun to collect
                    sex histories. When students in earlier sessions of the course came to him for personal conferences,
                    they most frequently asked him about premarital petting, and he realized how pervasive it was.
                    Kinsey concluded that he could collect data from those conferences in order to investigate petting
                    and other behaviors, and how they affected people after marriage. He then offered some statistical
                    backup, taken from his case history data, for a related theme that he had been hinting at in
                    previous lectures: "There is statistical correlation between premarital petting and
                    effective sexual adjustment at the marriage. There is practically no correlation between premarital
                    intercourse and ease of adjustment after marriage." He also addressed a topic that a
                    handful of students had inquired about--homosexuality--stating that "biologically, it is
                    still part of the normal sexual picture, and the individual who suffers through the social
                    condemnation which is a result of the branding of the phenomenon as abnormal has the most difficult
                    sexual problem that I know of. It is a phenomenon that society will some day [face] with more
                    objectivity." Kinsey's direct references in the lecture to individual conferences
                    and sex histories indicate their signifi-
                        35Alfred C. Kinsey, "Sex Education," March 6, 1940,
                            pp. 9, 11, folder 10, series VA..e, box 11, Kinsey Collection. 259
                    cance for his teaching methods and their impact on his
                    thinking. The reference to homosexuality and its normalcy reinforces the fact that Kinsey was moving
                    away from marriage per se as a subject for analysis and toward studying the whole of human sexual
                        behavior.36
                The comments that Kinsey collected from the spring 1940 session were more serious and defensive in
                    tone than those he had received in earlier sessions. With the objections of Rice, Schuman, both
                    Muellers, and Kohlmeier circulating around campus, the students who wrote about the course as a
                    whole used the opportunity to register their opposition to critical gossip. Mixed in among praises
                    for the course were comments condemning "outsiders." "I also feel sorry
                    that outsiders criticize the biology lectures so much," stated one man. "It is too
                    bad that … biology, where students are uninformed, [is] relegated to such a small part of
                    the course." Another wrote, "I fail to see where anyone could take offense at any
                    of the lectures if they attend with an open mind." A woman agreed, echoing
                    Kinsey's own language: "The persons who criticize [the lectures] are those who
                    have not heard them, and still uphold Victorian views of prejudice and ignorance concerning sex and
                    marriage relations. The ice should be broken sometime." Several students saw a broader
                    picture of what the unpleasant gossip said about education at Indiana University. One man wrote:
                    "Of what good is a col- lege education if we do not know how to live and what life is all
                        about?"37
                Most students insisted that Kinsey keep the course going. One woman alluded to possible ulterior
                    motives on the part of critics: "Do these objectors want us to get [sexual information]
                    from 'quack Dr. Books,' street conversation, or perhaps they want us to learn of
                    the dangers [by] making mistakes?" One man described with regret his own sexual experience
                    prior to the course:
                        Why should people continue to wreck their lives through the false idea of sex? I appreciate
                            this fact, because it has damaged part of my life already. Why should anyone object to the
                            knowing 
                                36Ibid., pp. 12,14. 
                                37Marriage course comments [whole course], April 1940, folder
                                    12, series V.A. i., box II, Kinsey Collection.of
                                    their own bodies is beyond me. I burn to think of such people, even though my
                                    parents are among them. I say to hell with the criticism. Continue to try to bring
                                    … human anatomy of this forbidden nature to light to struggling persons
                                    who have had not the chance of finding it out before.38
                            
                    
                By the summer of 1940, Kinsey was increasingly aware of the objections of several IU faculty to the
                    explicit content of the course, and in particular to the idea of the normality of masturbation and
                    homosexuality In May 1940, Albert Kohlmeier, who had lectured in five of the six marriage course
                    sessions to date, wrote a letter to President Wells as chair of the University Committee on
                    Religion, stating his concern "regarding the moral and social implications of the present
                    methods of conducting the non-credit course on marriage." Later in the summer, feeling
                    pressure from IU sociologists, campus physicians, local Christian leaders, and some parents, Wells
                    asked Kinsey to choose one of two courses of action: resign from the marriage course and continue to
                    take the sex histories of students, or continue to teach in the marriage course but allow the IU
                    health center to take over the individual counseling sessions. A brief flurry of letters to Wells
                    followed, including a petition with 163 signatures asking that Kinsey not be forced to resign under
                    such conditions. As Kinsey pointed out to Henry G. Nester, chair of the Butler University physiology
                    department, it was culturally acceptable for physicians to give sex advice, however muddled with
                    morals, but the same men and women objected to anyone else (including a biology professor such as
                    Kinsey) giving explicit, practical, nonjudgmental instruction. But Kinsey did not worry over the
                    loss of the marriage course for long. Ten days after he sent his resignation letter to Wells, he
                    wrote to IU graduate student Glenn Ramsey about the heterosexuality/homosexuality scale on which he
                    was working.39
                
                    38Marriage course comments [individual lectures], April 1940, folder 14,
                        series VA. 1.i, box II, Kinsey Collection. The idea that people who experimented with sex before
                        marriage got what they deserved in terms of venereal disease was an undercurrent in contemporary
                        VD preven tion campaigns, and it is not surprising that Kinsey's students would
                        challenge such a notion.
                    39"Memorandum of Conversation Regarding Marriage
                        Course," September 23, 1939, Marriage Course 1942-43 Folder (9081-24), Mueller Papers;
                        Alfred C. Kinsey to Herman B Wells, marked "never sent" [c. August 1940],
                        Wells File, KCC; Albert L. Kohlmeier and Frank O. Beck to Wells, May 20, 1940, Kinsey-Marriage
                        Course File, Wells Papers; Kinsey to Wells, August 7, 1940, Wells File, KCC; Wells to Kinsey,
                        August 8, 1940, Wells File, KCC; O. J. Price to Wells, October 29, 1939, Kinsey-Marriage Course
                        File, Wells Papers; Rosann R. Van Valer, Enola R. Van Valer, and Mrs. R. W Van Valer to Wells,
                        September 7, 1940, Kinsey-Marriage Course File, Wells Papers; Maurice A. McGlasson to Wells,
                        August 13, 1940, Kinsey-Marriage Course File, Wells Papers; Edward Van Kooten to Wells, August
                        2, 1940, Kinsey-Marriage Course File, Wells Papers; Van Kooten to Wells, August 26, 1940,
                        Kinsey-Marriage Course File, Wells Papers; Kinsey to Wells, September 10, 1940, Wells File, KCC;
                        Wells to Kinsey, September 17, 1940, Wells File, KCC; "Information on the Marriage
                        Course," May 16, 1944, Kinsey-Marriage Course File, Wells Papers; Kinsey to Henry G.
                        Nester, November 21, 1940, Henry G. Nester File, KCC. The scale would be one of
                        Kinsey's most well-known legacies for sexologists. See Kinsey, Pomeroy, and Martin, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, 638; Kinsey to Glenn V Ramsey, September
                        20, 1940, folder 1, Glenn V. Ramsey file, KCC. 
                
                
                Kinsey continued to take the histories, and the marriage course proceeded under the leadership of his
                    old opponents, Rice and Schuman, through fall 1942. According to Kate Mueller, the course ended due
                    to wartime exigencies, not because it devolved into the jumble of pro-eugenic, antisex, misogynistic
                    information that one student's notes indicated. IU student and future Kinsey collaborator
                    Clyde E. Martin, the author of the extant notes on the fall 1940 marriage course, was highly
                    sarcastic and critical of three of the lectures. In one lecture, Willis D. Gatch apparently told
                    male students: "You have as much right to marry a woman and starve her to death as any
                    other man… . Don't worry too much about brains. A too profound intellect [is]
                    sometimes evidence of abnormality." When Kinsey left the course, his scientific tone and
                    the interest of many IU students in taking the class left with him.40
                In its initial sessions, the IU marriage course was comparable to other courses in the secular
                    marriage education movement, which included a mixture of practical household instructions,
                    idealistic discussion of the joys of marriage, personal conferences with instructors, and explicit
                    instructions about sex. The early sessions of the course were a
                        40Mueller, interview; Alexandra Minna Stern, "'We
                            Cannot Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics in the Hoosier
                            Heartland," Indiana Magazine of History, 103 (March 2007), 3-5;
                            [Clyde E. Martin], notes on [David A.] Boyd, "Psychological Aspects of Sexual
                            Adjustment," October 21, 1940, folder 1, series VA.1.f, box II, Kinsey Collection;
                            [Martin], notes on [Edith] Schuman, "A Practitioner's Point of View-The
                            Care of the Conditions of Pregnancy," November 27, 1940, folder 2, series VA.1.f,
                            box II, Kinsey Collection; [Martin], notes on "Mr. Medical Man [Willis D.]
                            Gatch," "Practical Marriage," November [1940], folder 3, series
                            VA.1.f, box II, Kinsey Collection; Martin, "Some Memories of Clyde E. Martin about
                            the Research and Kinsey," June 1960, p. 2, folder 18, series I.E3, box I, Kinsey
                            Collection.
                    hybrid of the more liberal contemporary thinking on
                    companionate marriage, marital sex advice, marriage education literature, and the new scientific
                    sexology of Katharine Bement Davis, Hannah and Abraham Stone, and Robert Latou Dickinson. Opponents
                    of the companionate marriage concept were eased off the stage of the marriage course, and it was
                    their protests that eventually led to Kinsey's resignation.
                During his time directing the class, Kinsey moved from focusing on marital sexuality to exploring and
                    declaring the normalcy of most other forms of sexuality as well. In his final set of lectures,
                    Kinsey also showed signs of the philosophical and scientific approach he would soon apply to the sex
                    research for which he gained wide renown. He built his philosophy on those elements of the marriage
                    education and sexology literature that he had initially valued: firm statistics, clear language, a
                    nonjudgmental attitude toward most types of behavior, an absence of religious or moral judgment, and
                    a desire to teach the "truth" about sex in marriage as much as anyone could. While
                    those principles continued to guide him, he also read and thought more about sex as a cultural,
                    social, and physical phenomenon, and kept taking sex histories as the course continued.
                    Kinsey's 1938 marriage course lectures chastised a world where premarital contact was
                    forbidden and marriage was fraught with problems, and subtly promoted sexual learning before
                    marriage. His 1940 lectures described the psychological nature of sexual experience, called for love
                    to be removed from scientific studies of sex, pointed to the almost infinite variation in human
                    behavior, declared the naturalness of most sexual behavior (except for abstinence), and questioned
                    the relationship between body and mind. The honest responses that Kinsey believed he had elicited
                    from students and others during individual sex conferences led him to think that personal, private
                    interviews constituted the best way to gather mass amounts of information on sexual behavior. As of
                    1940, Kinsey still had more questions than answers, but he now had a set of research principles--and
                    a working interview form--that satisfied his desire for scientific validity and truthfulness.41
                As Thomas D. Clark wrote in his history of IU, No one that summer [1938] could have predicted that
                    Indiana University, in agreeing to 
                        41Glen V Ramsey, interview by James H. Jones, typescript, pp. 4-7,
                            March 15, 1972, Center for the Study of History and Memory
                    sustain a set of lectures on domestic family affairs, had
                    set its feet upon the high road toward investigating human sexual behavior." Of course,
                    like others of its kind, the IU marriage course was about much more than "domestic family
                    affairs." Over a two-year period, Kinsey transformed the course into a venue for asking the
                    kinds of broad questions that no scientist had yet answered about human sexuality. By the time that
                    Kinsey's tenure as chair of the course ended in 1940, he had started to craft the ideology
                    and theoretical framework and to collect the data for the work that would become Sexual
                        Behavior in the Human Male and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. The
                    circumstances that moved him out of the course did not deter him from his research, but rather
                    encouraged him to pursue another endeavor. Twelve lectures on "domestic family
                    affairs," given in a noncredit marriage course on a midwestern college campus, turned into
                    "a noble experiment" by its first chair to investigate not just marriage but the
                    whole of human sexual experience.42
                
                    42Clark, Indiana University, 30; "IU. to Offer
                        Course in 'Marriage,'" p. 1; "Summary of Student
                        Answers," November 1938.
                
            
            
            
                Law and Disorder North of the Ohio
                Runaways and the Patriarchy of Print Culture, 1793-1815
                ROBERT M. OWENS
                In the years following the Revolution, American leaders codified their vision for the territory north
                    of the Ohio River. In the ordinances passed
                    from 1784 to 1787, the Confederation Congress laid out a blueprint for land sales, political
                    structures, and jurisprudence in the fertile, potentially rich region. The ordinances supported
                    education, promised the peaceful practice of varying religious beliefs, and provided for settlement
                    and commerce to proceed at an orderly pace. The Ordinance of 1787 also promised liberal and fair
                    treatment for the region's natives, "except in just wars authorised by
                    Congress," and banned slavery in the Northwest Territory.1
                The leaders of the new territory assumed the continuation of a patriarchal and paternal system of
                    social order, the maintenance of 
                        Robert M. Owens is assistant professor of history at Wichita State University, and is the
                            author of Mr Jefferson's Hammer: William Henry Harrison and the
                                Origins of American Indian Policy (2007). He would like to thank Prof. William L.
                            Vanderburgh of Wichita State University, Prof. Eric Sandweiss of Indiana University, Dr.
                            Dawn Bakken of the IMH, and the anonymous refer ees for their helpful critiques of early
                            versions of this article. 
                        1The relationship between unfree labor and freedom is addressed by
                            Edmund Morgan, American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial
                                Virginia (
                                New York
                            , 1975).
                    which would require ongoing controls. Rather than
                    maintain these strictures through heavy-handed government enforcement, they hoped to wield the
                    societal reins through a dialogue among like-minded, property-holding white males. But the frontier
                    confounded many expectations. As settlers poured onto the new lands, nascent governmental bodies
                    struggled to keep pace with their numbers. Highly structured religious groups found themselves
                    unable to provide the needed leaders and buildings. To make matters worse, many of the settlers who
                    flooded into the Ohio Valley seemed unruly, even rebellious, and from their ranks came an
                    ever-increasing number of property-holding males, now eligible to vote and contend for public
                    offices.
                Even on the frontier, however, there were still ways to distinguish one group of men from another. In
                    the Early Republic, as during the Colonial era, the possession of slaves (still possible just across
                    the Ohio River in Kentucky), apprentices, and wives helped to distinguish successful men of property
                    from their lesser competitors. These three groups provided essential labor and connoted social
                    capital as well. But the frontier, with few towns and partially cleared farms scattered through a
                    forested wilderness, provided excellent opportunities for human possessions to make off.
                    Property-owning men faced the question of how to maintain control in such a volatile environment.
                One of the ways in which these men appealed to one another was through the public press, in terms
                    that maintained both their actual assets and their social standing in the new republic. Some of the
                    best examples of how this played out come from newspaper advertisements for three categories of
                    runaways--slaves, apprentices, and wives.
                From the perspective of free adult men with at least some property (i.e., the electorate), runaway
                    slaves, runaway apprentices, and runaway wives constituted particular nuisances. They provoked
                    debate and dialogue about the socio-legal code of bound labor. The efforts of slaves, servants, and
                    aggrieved wives to resist the control of their masters provides an important window into how the
                    electorate's ethos of what we might call "controlled liberty" functioned.
                    By definition, the system offered liberty for some and not for all, and the runaway ads tell us as
                    much about how it would ultimately fail as they do about how it was justified and maintained.
                Looking specifically at runaway ads in the early territorial newspapers offers advantages to the
                    historian seeking to understand the maintenance of social order in the region. The Northwest
                    Territory would be divided into some of the first post-Revolutionary states added to the U.S. --a process that in itself proved a bold experiment. Also, while
                    some excellent scholarship has examined runaways in the eighteenth-century Mid-Atlantic,2 little work examines this phenomenon on the turbulent frontier of the Early
                    Republic. Finally, this study addresses the key issue of people using the newspapers as a form of
                    public dialogue and as an auxiliary of law enforcement in an area where law and order could be
                    scarce.
                Controlling these categories of people, whose labor fell on a sliding scale between completely forced
                    and potentially voluntary, was deemed important enough for white, propertied men to take their
                    private difficulties into the public sphere, often through the local newspaper. They placed
                    advertisements for their runaways in an effort to restore public confidence in the system of
                    hierarchically controlled labor,3 and more directly, to defend their
                    reputations. A man who chose to advertise struck a delicate balance: provide enough information
                    about the runaway to secure his/her return, and also maintain personal honor by projecting an image
                    of a master somehow too just and liberal to rightfully run away from.
                Looking at Ohio Valley newspapers from the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries can tell us
                    quite a lot about the practical side of how Americans struggled to protect both individual rights
                    and collective law and order. I argue that frontier citizens collectively chose to utilize
                    newspapers as a key arm for the enforcement of contracts and laws because they allowed for
                    considerable self-fashioning, and at the same time helped to obviate an expensive and potentially
                    oppressive system of law enforcement.
                In eighteenth- and nineteenth-century America, patriarchy, and its more subtle cousin paternalism,
                    existed through the fiction that free white men knew what was best for women, children, and
                    minorities, and that society functioned best when the latter groups submitted to the former. Because
                    the benefits of such an arrangement were supposed to
                        The growing body of literature includes David Waldstreicher, "Reading the
                            Runaways: Self Fashioning, Print Culture, and Confidence in Slavery in the
                            Eighteenth-Century Mid-Atlantic," William and Mary Quarterly, 56
                            (April 1999), 243-72; Waldstreicher, Runaway America: Benjamin Franklin,
                                Slavery, and the American Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 2004); Ronald Hoffman, Mechal Sobel, & Fredrika J. Teute, eds.,Through a Glass Darkly: Reflections on Personal Identity in Early America (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1997); Carla Gardina Pestana & Sharon V. Salinger, eds., Inequality in Early America (Hanover, 
                                N.H.
                            , 1999).
                        3Waldstreicher, "Reading the Runaways," 247.
                    be obvious to all parties, patriarchs needed to feel that
                    their dependents had cheerfully submitted to them.4 When
                    dependents fled, they blatantly signaled that all was not well in the family, and they opened up the
                    sore question of the patriarch's legitimacy to rule others. Slaves, apprentices, or wives
                    who ran away from those who claimed them were seen as obstacles both to personal economic success
                    and to a broader societal order. Notably, the imagery of the Revolution had variously portrayed
                    Americans as children of a domineering mother country, as a maiden forced into an unhappy union with
                    her British husband, or as slaves of British masters. Yet despite the Revolution's emphasis
                    on natural rights, many Americans still depended upon unfree or unpaid labor.
                RUNAWAY SLAVES
                Article Six of the 1787 ordinance had stated that "there shall be neither slavery nor
                    involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes whereof the
                    party shall have been duly convicted." The exception to the rule applied to runaways:
                    "That any person escaping into the same, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in
                    any one of the original States, such fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and conveyed to the person
                    claiming his or her labor or service as aforesaid." Despite what appeared to be an outright
                    ban, slavery, in various forms, continued in the region for decades.5 For a
                    time, territorial governors, partly to assuage settlers from the French era, refused to interpret
                    the ban on slavery as retroactive: because the 1787 ordinance had not specifically emancipated
                    slaves, the slaves already in the territory could still be considered as property. 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                     territories also passed laws allowing imported slaves to be converted to the 
                        4Nicole Etcheson, The Emerging Midwest: Upland
                                Southerners and the Political Culture of the Old Northwest, 1787-1861 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1996), 6, 42. For an example of a colonial patriarch's reaction to
                            disobedient slaves and children, see Rhys Isaac, Landon Carter's
                                Uneasy Kingdom: Revolution and Rebellion on a Virginia Plantation (
                                New York
                            , 2004).
                        5"Indenture" laws also specified that children would
                            inherit the permanently indentured status of their parent(s). Even when the 
                                Indiana
                             and 
                                Illinois
                             state constitutions were adopted after the War of 1812, emancipation was not
                            immediately enforced. See Ellen Eslinger, "The Evolution of Racial Politics in
                            Early Ohio," in The Center of a Great Empire: The Ohio Country in the
                                Early Republic, eds. Andrew R. L. Cayton and Stuart D. Hobbs (
                                Athens
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 2005), 81-104; Eugene Berwanger, The Frontier Against Slavery:
                                Western Anti-Negro Prejudice and Slavery Extension Controversy
                                    (Urbana, Ill., 1967), Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro In Indiana
                                Before 1900: A Study of a Minority (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), chap. 1.
                    status of indentured servants, with terms of indenture
                    that assured "servants" would never be free.
                The vast frontier of the Ohio Valley, however, seemed to beckon to both free and unfree people and to
                    offer the possibility of a fresh start. Of all the runaways who appeared in frontier newspaper ads,
                    slaves (most of them from south of the 
                        Ohio
                    , with a few local bondsmen mixed in) had the most obvious reasons to run. They might
                    attempt to reunite with (or at least to visit) relatives from whom they had been sold away. They
                    might take to the woods temporarily to avoid a particularly harsh punishment, or as a gesture of
                    defiance towards a master. Female slaves sometimes ran away to escape unwanted sexual advances, or
                    took their daughters with them to avoid such a fate. And some slaves took to their heels to strike a
                    subversive blow at slavery itself by "stealing" themselves.6
                 Several factors made a slave more or less likely to run away: age, gender, skills, and familial
                    situation were all critical. Young men in their late teens and early twenties comprised by far the
                    majority of runaways. They were better prepared for the physical rigors of escape, could put up the
                    fiercest resistance if cornered, and often had no wives or children to tie them to their owners. A
                    major survey of 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        South Carolina
                    , and 
                        Louisiana
                     from 1790 to 1816, for example, has revealed that 81 percent of runaway slaves were
                        males.7
                Male slaves, from the nature of their tasks, tended to find more opportunity for escape and to bring
                    with them a better geographic knowledge of the surrounding area. While men might be assigned to work
                    flatboats, deliver messages, or serve as coachmen, women were rarely given such chores. As historian
                    Billy G. Smith notes, "an African American woman on the road was an oddity that would
                    arouse suspicion, and thus some female runaways disguised themselves as men." Smith adds
                    that slave women rarely escaped on horseback, as few of them had much practice in riding.8
                Men also stood a better chance of finding a more agreeable master, or even employment as a laborer in
                    the North, because skilled or
                        6Billy G. Smith, "Black Women Who Stole Themselves In
                            Eighteenth-Century America," in Inequality in Early America, 140.
                        7John Hope Franklin and Loren Schweninger, Runaway
                                Slaves: Rebels on the Plantation (
                                New York
                            , 1999), 210-11.
                        8Smith, "Black Women Who Stole Themselves,"
                        142.
                    
                        A slave being hunted by hounds Most runaway slaves, like the one pictured here,
                            were young males Narrative of William W. Brown, A fugative slave, 1847
                    unskilled, their labor was usually valued more highly than women's. Plenty of
                    women worked in the fields, but men were generally considered the prime field hands. Calculating
                    slave women knew that unless they were near a metropolitan area, their otherwise marketable skills
                    in the kitchen or the laundry would not be in demand. Regardless of their prospects, slaves
                    sometimes ran away fully expecting to be recaptured, in the hope of making themselves such a
                    nuisance that their owners would sell them to another. Smith offers that, "[o]n occasion,
                    slaves must have struck deals with whites to purchase them cheaply once they ran away." And
                    a few returned runaways may even have become bond servants, rather than property.9
                
                
                    9Smith, "Black Women Who Stole Themselves," 142, 145;
                        Billy G. Smith, "Runaway Slaves in the Mid-Atlantic Region during the Revolutionary
                        Era," in The Transforming Hand of Revolution: Reconsidering the American
                            Revolution as a Social Movement, Ronald Hoffman and Peter J. Albert, eds. (
                            Charlottesville
                        , 
                            Va.
                        , 1996), 229.
                
                
                If a slave managed to escape his or her immediate surroundings, the master often wrote a newspaper
                    advertisement to solicit aid in returning the slave. The runaway slave database referred to above
                    calculates that the average award posted for a runaway was $15 (only $9 in 
                        South Carolina
                    ). While owners typically did not post large rewards for runaways, they might up the
                    ante if they felt someone was harboring the fugitive. Advertisements noted the slave's
                    approximate age, physical characteristics, clothing, trade, and personality:10
                    
                        "Thirty Dollars Reward. Ran Away from my paper mill near 
                                Georgetown
                             [KY], last evening, a MULATTO MAN, named James, a papermaker to trade, soft
                            hands (and is frequently taken for a white man) about twenty-two years of age, about five
                            feet nine or ten inches high, has black hair and frequently qued, affable and well spoken
                            … . Elijah Craig, Nov 8, 1802 N. B. As I raised this man from his infancy, used
                            him well and learned him a good trade, and meaned to give him his freedom at 31 on
                            behaviour, and now my useful manufactory must suffer, I hope none will harbor him, but give
                            him speedy information.11
                    
                Such ads served several purposes. When slaves ran off, they hurt their owners financially. Mr. Craig
                    wanted his skilled papermaker returned, and the fear that some might "harbor him"
                    was a genuine concern when a slave with marketable skills ran off. He also suggests a fondness for
                    James, noting the slave's friendly manners and clear speech. Much of the ad was designed to
                    assuage those who might take pity on an escaped slave, pointing out that James had been well treated
                    and would be freed while still relatively young. The ad may also have been directed at James--it is
                    not unreasonable to think that a trained craftsman could read. While the literacy rate among all
                    escaped slaves in this era was only 1 to 2 percent, among mulatto runaways like James it may
                        have
                        10Franklin and Schweninger, Runaway Slaves, 170-78,
                            table p. 177.
                        11Western Spy and Hamilton Gazette (
                                Cincinnati
                            ), Nov. 17, 1802. Joseph Carpenter of 
                                Cincinnati
                             published the Western Spy and Hamilton
                            Gazette (1799-1805), the Western Spy and Hamilton
                                Gazette (1805-1809), and the 
                                Western Spy
                             (1810-1819); they will all be referred to hereafter as the 
                                Western Spy
                            . Thanks to Dr. James Cornelius, Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, for clarifying
                            this point.
                    been as high as 10 percent. Even illiterate runaways
                    had--through literate sympathizers or other means--access to a local newspaper.12
                Thus an advertisement for a runaway slave was not simply a financial transaction, but could be an
                    exercise in self-fashioning to the community at large--not unlike a modern press release. And it
                    might be the master's only chance to communicate again with his runaway human property.
                An ad from a Tennessee planter, printed June 19, 1802, asked for help in recovering "a negro
                    man named GEORGE," whom the author described as being of
                        Yellow complexion, about 6 feet high, 30 years of age, stout made, and very
                            active talks sensibly, and stops a little in his walk … I have no doubt but he
                            will pass for a free man, and perhaps produce a pass, as heretofore a free fellow of the
                            name of Brown, forged him a pass by the name of George Velvio, and signed Thomas Hutchings,
                            and 6 residing justices of Davidson court, thereto; he will make for the North Western
                            territory, or 
                                Detroit
                            ; he has obtained by some means a good idea of the Geography of that country; if
                            apprehended, he is artful and will make his escape, unless well secured.13
                    
                The plantation owner, while evincing no fondness for his runaway, does seem to appreciate his value
                    and even to respect his intellect, at least regarding escapes. If George made it from 
                        Tennessee
                     all the way to the Ohio Country, such respect was certainly merited. George's
                    owner, notably, was Andrew Jackson, at this time a laywer and former senator relatively unknown
                    outside of his home state.14
                One of the more striking features of runaway slave ads is their relatively calm and objective tone.
                    As John Hope Franklin and Loren Schweninger assert, "ads were in large measure accurate and
                    objective in 
                        12See Waldstreicher, "Reading the Runaways," 270.
                            Franklin and Schweninger note that "nearly 10 percent of mulatto runaways possessed
                            forged papers, compared with 6 percent among blacks"; Runaway
                            Slaves, 215.
                        13
                                Western Spy
                            ,June 19, 1802.
                        14On the search for George, see The Papers of Andrew
                                Jackson, vol. 2: 1804-1813, Harold D. Moser and Sharon
                            Macpherson, eds. (
                                Knoxville
                            , 
                                Tenn.
                            , 1984), 94-95, and note 76.
                    
                    
                        Advertisement for a runaway slave from the Liberty Hall and
                                Cincinnati Mercury, September 29, 1807 Some writers were mild and persuasive, but
                            many ads seeking runaways were couched in the harsh language used by Reuben Tvyman.
                     describing the demeanor, dress, speech, character, abilities, background, and possible
                    destination of runaway slaves. It would not have benefited owners to include false
                    information." Oddly some of the more objective contemporary writings we have from masters
                    about slaves concern run-aways15
                As a system, however, slavery contained too much inherent malevolence for all runaway ads to be mild.
                    Reuben wyman of Kentucky placed an ad asking subscribers to "Stop the Assassin, WHO
                    ATTEMPTED TO MURDER HIS MASTER." The slave was described as a "likely [i. e., a
                    strong, reliable worker] black fellow," and worth $50 for anyone
                        15Franklin and Schweninger, Runaway Slaves, 170, on
                            how to read the ads' descriptions, see Jonathan Prude "TB Look Upon the
                            'Lower Sort: Runway Ads and the Appearance of Unfree Laborers in America,
                            1750-1800," Journal of American History, 78 (June 1991), 124
                        59.
                    who could secure him long enough for Twyman to recover
                        him.16 Presumably the slave would have been subjected to harsh punishment,
                    perhaps even death, either as revenge or as an example to fellow slaves.
                Fifty dollars was also the reward for Jim, a well-digger who ran away from James Suggett. Though no
                    altercation was mentioned, and Suggett also described Jim as "a likely fellow,"
                    considerable spleen emanated from the ad. Jim was "often drunk" and
                    "became lazy and did not love to work," despite the fact that he had been
                    "indulged very much." Suggett added: "It was my desire to make him live
                    as comfortable as I could: he has therefore paid me for it."17
                Many of the ads suggest why slaves ran. Thomas Johnson of Kentucky offered $100 for the
                    return of Nat, about twenty-nine years old, with "a kind of brand on his left cheek which
                    resembles a C, and has a scar on his throat." When James B. January issued his
                    $50 reward for Fanny a mulatto woman, he noted that she had a free husband in St. Louis,
                    and had most likely run there. When Kitty fled from Richard Dickinson's plantation in
                    Beargrass, 
                        Kentucky
                    , she was not alone. "She was enticed away by a Mulatto Man called NED, tall
                    and well made." In addition to his physical attributes, Ned was also bright and had secured
                    passes of freedom for himself and Kitty "from a person not prudent now to
                        mention."18
                In addition to what they suggest of the owners' state of mind or the slaves'
                    reasons for fleeing, the newspaper ads offer additional data. A survey of the Western
                        Spy (
                        Cincinnati
                    ) from 1799-1807 yields advertisements for sixty-two runaway slaves. Forty-seven
                    (three-quarters of the total number) were from neighboring 
                        Kentucky
                    , nine from the 
                        Ohio
                     Territory, and the remaining six from 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        Indiana
                     Territory, or 
                        Detroit
                    . Slightly more than half of the overall group (thirty-two) had run away alone. The rest
                    ran off in small groups, the largest of which included six men, a boy, and a woman from 
                        Kentucky
                    .
                The lowest advertised reward was easily Josiah Holly's "One Cent Reward"
                    for a fifteen-year-old "bound servant girl" with "sandy com- 
                        16Liberty Hall and Cincinnati Mercury, September 29,
                            1807.
                        17Ibid., August 6, 1808.
                        18Freedonian (
                                Chillicothe
                            ), January 5, 1808; The Ohio Herald, June 23, 1806; Freedonian, May 16, 1807.
                    plexion," Matilda Brown.19
                    Other posted rewards ranged from $5 for a woman or a boy, to as much as $100
                    for a particularly valuable man. Andrew Jackson valued his slave George enough to offer
                    $50 for his return, but $20 (an amount slightly higher than the average reward
                    posted in the South) seems to have been the most common reward offered for one slave.
                The Centinel of the Northwestern Territory (
                        Cincinnati
                    ), the first newspaper in 
                        Ohio
                    , featured ads for fifteen runaways between 1794 and 1796. Almost all of the slaves came
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The typical reward was $5-10, with $30 being the highest. The Western Sun (
                        Vincennes
                    ) ran ads for eleven runaway slaves, most from 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        Tennessee
                    , between 1807 and 1811. Here, rewards were considerably higher. From a low of
                    $10, they ran as high as $150-200, the latter price for a mulatto collier
                    named Billy.20
                Owners sometimes offered no reward in their ad (about 24 percent of the time in Franklin and
                    Schweninger's study), and rewards over $50 were comparatively rare. Mulattos
                    tended to carry higher value, as did slaves who could write their own passes. Slaves in those
                    categories also had a better chance of passing for freemen and making good their escape. Owners
                    often held off placing an ad when they felt a slave might be quickly apprehended, but placed larger
                    rewards when they feared the runaway was leaving the state. While Franklin and
                    Schweninger's study of runaways who were still within the South indicates that,
                    "generally owners offered 5 percent or less of the value of the runaway as a
                        reward,"21 the rewards for those presumed to have made it north of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     were somewhat greater. This may reflect the overall trend of the most valuable slaves
                    being the ones most capable of effecting their escape. Presumably slaves who could pass from 
                        
                    Tennessee to the 
                        Ohio
                     country were skilled indeed.
                Many white Americans who settled in the Northwest Territory disliked the institution of slavery Some
                    opposed it on moral grounds--in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Indiana
                    , Quakers and Methodists were particularly vocal opponents of slavery and often
                    supporters of the Underground Railroad. Others who opposed the extension of slavery into the
                    Northwest did so
                        19Josiah Holly ad, 
                                Western Spy
                            , March 27, 1805. 
                        20Vincennes Western Sun, November 18, 1807.
                        21Franklin and Schweninger, Runaway Slaves,
                        175-76.
                    out of racial prejudice, wanting to exclude blacks, both
                    slave and free, from settling. Many whites expressed simultaneous hatred for slavery and for blacks,
                    as did Indiana Territory Judge Thomas T. Davis. "I dispise the Colour &
                    Situation," he wrote to a friend.22 For everyone who read a newspaper,
                    the ads calling for the return of runaway slaves served as a continual reminder of how much of the
                    country depended on the labor of the enslaved, and how anxious slave masters remained about their
                    patriarchal standing. Viewed from the present, the ads remind that free labor was far from a
                    foregone conclusion and that slavery seemed perfectly plausible to many white Americans.
                RUNAWAY APPRENTICES
                African American slaves were not the only unfree laborers in the Ohio Valley. Even those who abhorred
                    slavery assumed that unfree labor was necessary in certain businesses and trades. In particular,
                    many of the skilled trades still relied upon apprentices, albeit with mixed results. Apprentices,
                    usually pre-teens or young teenaged boys, worked for room and board, plus the opportunity to learn a
                    valuable trade. Often provisions were made for the boy's education; in cities the terms of
                    an apprenticeship might even stipulate attendance at night school. Apprentices usually served
                    indentures of four to seven years--making them not unlike white indentured servants--or until the
                    age of twenty-one. Masters practiced deferred gratification in accepting apprentices. The youth
                    would produce little valuable labor early on, and would still need food, shelter, and clothing. But
                    after a year or two, when his skills had progressed, he compensated his master with unpaid labor.23
                 Apprenticeships traditionally had a familial, patriarchal quality. With a kindly master, an
                    apprentice's quality of life was relatively good. Some apprentices even married their
                    master's daughters and inherited businesses. But the situation held the potential for
                    considerable abuse by the unscrupulous. Masters and apprentices had legal recourse in dire
                    circumstances, though actual enforcement of the law on this point was not uniform.
                
                    22Thomas T. Davis to John Breckenridge, January 26, 1806, in Territorial Papers of the U.S., Vol. 7, Indiana 1801-1810, Clarence
                        Edwin Carter, ed. (
                            Washington
                        , 1936), 355.
                    23W J. Rorabaugh, "I Thought I Should Liberate Myself from the
                        Thraldom of Others: Apprentices, Masters, and the Revolution," in Beyond
                            the American Revolution: Explorations in the History of American Radicalism, Alfred E
                        Young, ed. (De Kalb, Il1., 1993), 187; Carl Bridenbaugh, The Colonial
                        Craftsman (
                            New York
                        , 1950), 130.
                
                
                The laws of the Northwest Territory allowed a justice of the peace to place poor or orphaned children
                    in apprenticeships until boys were twenty-one or girls were eighteen. Indiana Territory reserved
                    that right for the courts. Even under the best circumstances, apprenticeships were often
                    involuntary--the child was sent away by a poor family to avoid the cost of upkeep--and tended toward
                    the tedious. There were other drawbacks as well. The indenture might stipulate that the apprentice
                    "not Committ fornication nor Contract Matrimony within the said term."24 For boys in the throes of puberty, this restriction must have been difficult.
                    Doubtless it inspired some to run off, yet forces even greater than hormones were at play as well.
                In an increasingly literate republic, popular literature was often intended to inspire morality and
                    virtue. Among the bestselling books of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries was the
                    autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. But alas for the tradesman whose bonded workman read the volume.
                    Franklin was easily America's most famous and successful runaway apprentice, having fled
                    his older brother's print shop. In his autobiography, he did claim that it was one of the
                    great mistakes of his life, as his brother had not treated him unfairly. But Franklin's
                    subsequent accomplishments seemed to many to justify his flight. The wildly popular autobiography
                    went through seven editions in the 1790s, and was a favorite, not surprisingly, among
                    printers' apprentices. (The same decade also witnessed the formation of artisan
                    organizations that tried to stanch the flood of runaways.) An unsuspecting master might suggest the
                    book to an apprentice as a handbook for success, but, as W. J. Rorabaugh notes, Franklin's
                    autobiography put dangerous messages into impressionable minds, seeming to say "leave your
                    master, become rich, famous, and renowned."25
                Franklin's story said something greater about the American saga as well, according to David
                    Waldstreicher. Franklin's success was based upon talents, hard work, and an indomitable
                    will. But eggs were broken to make that omelet. 
                        24Quote, Bridenbaugh, Colonial Craftsman, 131; The Laws of the Northwest Territory 1788-1800, Theodore Calvin Pease, ed. (
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1925), 191, 219; Laws of Indiana Territory 1801-1809,
                            Francis S. Philbrick, ed. (
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1930), 273.
                        25Rorabaugh, "I Thought I Should Liberate Myself,"
                            201-202. 
                    
                    
                    It took a real crime, the stealing of his own labor, to make the self made
                        man… . America is also the story of the James Franklins, the not-so-fortunate sons
                        who tried to become self-sufficient and found that other people's unfreedom was one of
                        the few resources at their disposal.26
                As with slave owners, craftsmen held wildly disparate views of their runaway charges' value.
                    Because apprentices could not be held for life and one rarely had to pay cash up front to secure the
                    contract, the rewards offered were usually much lower than those for slaves. Often the amount was in
                    pennies rather than dollars. Of the seventeen runaway apprentices sought in the 
                        Western Spy
                     between 1799 and 1806, for example, nine would bring a reward of twenty-five cents or less.
                    Given that such ads typically cost at least fifty cents to post for each of the first three weeks,
                    why bother to post an ad for an apprentice deemed worth less than half that cost? Even if we assume
                    that, as with slaves, apprentice rewards often amounted to only 5 percent of the assumed value of
                    the runaway, the numbers still do not add up.27
                Perhaps, as some argue with ads for escaped slaves, postings served to reassure the public that the
                    apprenticeship system itself was legitimate. Masters used print ads to assert that the contract had
                    been wrongfully violated-an attempt to negate the runaway's flight which implicitly stated
                    that something was awry. While increasingly tough laws provided for the punishment of apprentices
                    who broke their agreements, enforcement seems to have been lax, and at least among the existing
                    states, master and apprentice alike understood that fleeing across the state line made prosecution
                    nearly impossible.28
                Far more than with runaway slave notices, ads for runaway apprentices seem to have been motivated by
                    spite as much as by the need for financial remuneration. The evidence for this motive is sometimes
                    subtle, as with Isaac McCoy's ad calling for the return of Squire Davis, a slight
                    eighteen-year-old who fled McCoy's wheelwright shop in
                        26Waldstreicher, Runaway America, 6.
                        27The Indiana Gazette, out of Vincennes, and its
                            successor, the Vincennes Western Sun, both published by Elihu Stout, each
                            charged fifty cents per initial advertisement, as seen on their title pages.
                        Rorabaugh, "I Thought I Should Liberate Myself," 202.
                    April 1809. McCoy waited several weeks to post the ad and
                    offered only one cent for Davis' s return,29 giving the impression that
                    McCoy was not desperately in need of the boy. Some postings were more blunt. Carpenter William H.
                    Dunnica promised a "One Cent Re[w]ard & no Thanks" to anyone who returned
                    his eighteen-year-old apprentice William Strickling. Similarly, William Salter noted that the return
                    of apprentice Joshua Merryman would bring but one cent's reward: "I will pay no
                    other expence; nor give one thank for so doing." John Van Nuys's offer of nine
                    cents for the return of William Flin, about twelve years old, seems almost generous, given that Flin
                    was "a noted Thief and Liar, and many other failings too tedious to enumerate."
                    Sarcasm also pervades the offer for Philip Drum, a seventeen-year-old Dutchman who fled Robert
                    McGennis of 
                        Columbus
                    . Surmising that Drum's brother "inticed him away," McGennis
                    noted, "Six pence worth of cucumbers will be given next December" for his
                        return.30
                Despite such examples of anger and frustration, some craftsmen did offer reasonable rewards for the
                    return of their absconded apprentices. One 
                        Cincinnati
                     saddle-maker, for example, offered twenty dollars.31 In a broader
                    sense, all runaway apprentice notices served greater social functions: to discourage apprentices
                    from running away and to keep others from hiring such cheap labor in a labor-poor territory.
                    Although wheelwright Paul Huston offered only twelve cents for the return of apprentice Robert
                    Crawford, he added, "All persons are forbid from harboring him at their peril."
                    When twenty-one-year-old bookbinder's apprentice Andrew Weber fled from the press of the
                        Stanton Eagle, in 
                        Stanton
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , his master advertised at least as far away as the Indiana Territory. As 
                        Virginia
                     by this time was the rare state that allowed apprenticeships to extend beyond age
                    twenty-one, ten dollars reward was offered for his return. Because it looked as though Weber had
                    "been persuaded to run away," another twenty dollars was offered if anyone were
                    convicted "of so base a crime."32
                
                    29Waldstreicher, "Reading the Runaways," 247; Vincennes Western Sun, May 27, 1809.
                    30Dunnica ad, Vincennes Western Sun, June 24, 1809;
                        Salter, Van Nuys, and McGennis ads, Western Spy, April 3, 1805, July 30, 1799,
                        and August 13, 1799.
                    31Westem Spy, August 21, 1805.
                    32Huston ad, 
                            Western Spy
                        , March 23, 1803; Weber notice, Vincennes Western Sun, October 8, 1808;
                        Rorabaugh, "I Thought I Should Liberate Myself," 202.
                
                
                Frontier printers were particularly sensitive about their apprentices' flight, and the issue
                    engendered a sense of common purpose.33 William Maxwell, the editor of the Centinel of the Northwestern Territory, offered a dime for the return of
                    nineteen-year-old Benjamin Stokes, and also noted that it was "unnecessary to describe his
                    clothing, as he is a notorious villain and has probably changed them." Elihu Stout, printer
                    of the Vincennes Western Sun, knew personally how hard it was to find good help-he
                    ran ads for years seeking an apprentice boy for his shop, apparently finding little satisfaction.
                    Probably because of this, he printed an ad from William Dickson, editor of the 
                        Lancaster
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Intelligencer. Dickson addressed the ad "TO
                    PRINTERS." He hoped for the return of James Donnelly, roughly fourteen, who despite
                    "a peculiar habit of winking" and being "very talkative and
                    imprudent," was quite skilled. "As this lad can do a man's work at
                    setting types," he would most likely seek employment (and full wages) as a printer.
                    "But it is confidently believed," Dickson continued, "that no one will
                    employ him, and all persons are cautioned against harboring the runaway." Dickson further
                    appealed to his colleagues by asserting that "[e]ditors of newspapers by inserting the
                    above, will discourage the profligacy of apprentices, and oblige a brother."34
                RUNAWAY WIVES
                Married women occupied an odd niche in the pantheon of unfree laborers. On the one hand, they
                    presumably entered into their marriage contract more voluntarily than apprentices. Yet unlike an
                    apprentice, wives "served" not a fixed term of years, but until the death of their
                    spouse or themselves. Nor did wives learn a skilled trade with the understanding of future
                    independence. Unlike a slave, a wife gained considerable personal, legal, and (assuming she was not
                    left shackled by debt) financial freedom upon the death of her husband.
                Eighteenth-century marriages have usually been understood, as Kathleen Brown writes, "as an
                    economic partnership sweetened by companionship." Men had a distinct legal advantage in
                    most cases if things
                        33Ironically, Benjamin Franklin earned considerable revenues by
                            printing ads for runaway apprentices and slaves. Waldstreicher, Runaway
                            America, 24.
                        34Centinel of the North-Western Territory, July 7,
                            1795; Vincennes Western Sun, December 7, 1811.
                    went sour-they controlled the property and held the
                    rights to the home and children. Divorces, for reasons discussed below, were often difficult to come
                    by. Yet women still had options. If physically abused or abandoned, they might "sue for
                    separate maintenance [which required legal proof of the husband's wrongdoing], seek refuge
                    with sympathetic neighbors, friends, or relatives, or search for employment to provide their own
                        living."35
                Some gentry wives won enough in their separate maintenance suits to live by themselves. For most
                    wives, though, separation proved a difficult decision, as their chances for financial survival alone
                    were not good. Women might run a tavern or a small shop, or perform domestic work. Even meager
                    independence, Brown asserts, "often represented an improvement over living conditions in
                    which a husband humiliated her with his adultery, drank, or gambled away family
                        resources."36
                Some unhappy spouses found immediate relief by fleeing the situation, either alone or with a new
                    lover. In cases where one spouse left the other, proving abandonment and securing legal redress was
                    more straightforward for women than for men. When wives ran away, they might still use their
                    husband's name in legal and financial dealings, potentially racking up debts and sullying
                    his reputation. Men, therefore, "turned to the courts in these situations both to protect
                    their estates and to level economic sanctions against their errant wives."37
                By the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, however, attitudes in America were shifting.
                    The idea of a marriage based on love and passion, as well as finances, was taking root.38 In the Anglo-American law codes, to be sure, a married woman was denied most
                    of her legal status-a feme covert. Unlike a widow, a wife could not, in theory,
                    enter into contracts, dispose of property, or conduct business generally, without her
                    husband's consent. As they strengthened their own position as citizens of the republic,
                    American men denigrated women in the process. Or, as Linda Kerber writes, the "traditional
                    identification of women with unreliability, unpredictability, and lust [had to] be
                        35Kathleen M. Brown, Good Wives, Nasty Wenches and
                                Anxious Patriarchs: Gender, Race and Power in Colonial Virginia (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 
                                N.C.
                            , 1996), 335-38.
                        36Ibid., 338.
                        37Ibid., 337.
                        38Andrew Cayton, Frontier Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Ind.
                            , 1996), 174-75.
                    
                    emphasized. Women's weakness became a rhetorical foil
                    for republican manliness."39
                Divorce was, by design, scandalous and difficult to effect. Modern concepts such as
                    "irreconcilable differences'" and "no-fault" divorces
                    were completely alien. Poorly matched couples were expected to live unhappily ever after. But one of
                    the key legal shifts in the nation after the Revolution was the possibility, if not the likelihood,
                    of securing an absolute divorce. (Not coincidentally, this shift paralleled the growing belief in
                    romantic marriage.) Prior to 1775, only the New England colonies had allowed for absolute divorce,
                    but by the late 1790s all the states except 
                        South Carolina
                     recognized it. The Northwest Territory also allowed for absolute divorce in some
                        circumstances.40
                The Northwest Territory, as provided for in the Ordinance of 1787, could adopt appropriate laws from
                    the existing states, rather than draft entirely new ones. For divorce, the territory adopted the 
                        Massachusetts
                     code. Far more lenient, for example, than the 
                        Virginia
                     code, it was nevertheless quite strict, allowing divorce only in cases of bigamy,
                    adultery, or impotency, and requiring legal proof of one of the offenses. Legal separation--which
                    did not allow for remarriage--was possible in cases of "extreme cruelty," although
                    the code did not elaborate on what constituted the latter. If the court granted the couple a divorce
                    and they had no children, the wife was legally entitled to the property she had brought to the
                    marriage, as well as to "reasonable" alimony. If children were involved, the court
                    would split the estate as it saw fit. All of this was assuming the husband brought suit.41
                If the wife initiated proceedings, the court would decide how much, if any, of her former property
                    and alimony she was entitled to. The territorial courts had ultimate authority in these matters.42 With fairly subtle wording, the law made it clear that as in most other
                    matters, a married woman would remain subordinate to her husband. Married
                        39Linda K. Kerber, "The Paradox of Women's
                            Citizenship in the Early Republic: The Case of Martin vs. Massachusetts, 1805," American Historical
                            Review, 97 (April 1992), 349-78, quote p. 351.
                        40Norma Basch, Framing American Divorce: From the
                                Revolutionary Generation to the Victorians (
                                Berkeley
                            , 
                                Calif.
                            , 1999), 20-22.
                        41Laws of the Northwest Territory, 258;Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory 1805-1815, Gayle Thornbrough
                            and Dorothy L. Riker, eds. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), note p. 130.
                        42Laws of the Northwest Territory, 258-59.
                    men received an extra layer of protection, even if their
                    wives sued them, because the process had to be sanctioned by other men. Of course, women's
                    divorce suits were occasionally granted in cases of truly despi- cable behavior by husbands. But the
                    husband commanded a benefit of the doubt denied his wife. At its core, the law was about
                    paternalistic control, not equity.
                The difficulties and high costs of securing a divorce encouraged many people in bad marriages simply
                    to flee. For wealthier couples in England and America, unhappy unions might practically (if not
                    technically) be sundered by a permanent separation, where the wife was allowed enough alimony for
                    her support. Men and women from the lower economic classes seemed to prefer bigamy and serial
                    monogamy to the social and financial costs of seeking a legal divorce. Cases of bigamy were not
                    often prosecuted, unless one of the parties later became wealthy.43
                Most "runaway wife" advertisements followed a basic pattern. They served as a
                    public avowal that the wife had fled-usually "without provocation"-and a warning
                    to businessmen that the abandoned husband had no intention of honoring any purchases or contracts
                    she now made. The following, from the Centinel of the Northwestern Territory, was
                        typical:
                        Notice. To All whom it may concern, Not to credit my wife Elizabeth Meeker, on my account as
                            she has absconded from my bed and board without any Provocation; therefore I am determined
                            not to pay any debts of her contracting, from this date. John Meeker, 
                                Columbia
                            , Mar. 3, 1794.44
                    
                Posting a notice about one's absconded wife was a dicey proposition: Most men, doubtless,
                    did not relish the public embarrassment that such an ad would bring. Nor would any husband have
                    welcomed the invitation for others to speculate: Was he a bad provider? Was he
                        43Brown, Good Wives, Nasty Wenches, 335-38; Hendrik
                            Hartog, Man and Wife in America: A History (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Mass.
                            , 2000), 87; Marylynn Salmon, "Republican Sentiment, Economic Change,
                            and the Property Rights of Women in American Law," in Women in the Age
                                of the American Revolution, Ronald Hoffman and Peter J. Albert, eds. (
                                Charlottesville
                            , 
                                Va.
                            , 1988), 448.
                        
                            44Centinel of the Northwestern Territory, April 12,
                            1794.
                    
                    abusive? Were there troubles in the bedroom? Did his wife leave
                    him for someone more alluring? But men did choose to risk public speculation, as they clearly feared
                    financial ruin would be even more bruising to their honor. In the face-to-face economy of small
                    towns and farms, honor and finances were often linked.45
                As with other runaway ads, self-fashioning and revenge seem to have been motivating factors as well.
                    But, unlike the other ads, runaway wife notices rarely called for the woman's return. From
                    a sample of thirty-six ads, only one, from Archibald McDonald of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , sought a reunion with his wife.46 Perhaps Archibald called for
                    Rhodah's return because she carried with her their eighteen-month-old son. Also atypical of
                    these ads, McDonald offered a reward-$5-for the safe return of wife and child.47
                Most runaway wife ads adhered to a form, but there were individual touches as well. The husband might
                    allege adultery, and even name his wife's lover, or he might throw in an attack on his
                    absent wife's character. Peter Davis of 
                        Cincinnati
                     noted that his wife Elizabeth "absented from my bed, and has since taken up
                    with another man." Robert Armstrong, a soldier at Fort St. Clair, asserted that his wife,
                    also named Elizabeth, "has proved false to my bed and board." When David J.
                    Poor's wife Rachel left him, he tried to reclaim a sliver of his bruised masculinity,
                    addressing the ad not just to Rachel, but to women in general. He further sought to embarrass not
                    only his wife, but also her alleged lover, when he posted the following:
                        A Warning to Women!!! Whereas I have this day caught William Griffin and Rachel my wife in
                            the very act of ADULTERY; I there fore forwarn all persons of trusting or harbouring her as
                            I am determined to pay no debts of her contracting after this date.
                    
                Thomas Harden of Indiana Territory also refused responsibility for any of his absconded wife
                    Mary's debts, making a point to add that she
                        45See Mary Beth Norton, "Gender and Defamation in
                            Seventeenth-Century Maryland," William and Mary Quarterly, 44
                            (January 1987), 3-39.
                        46From the Centinel of the Northwest Territory,
                            1793-1796, the Western Spy, 1799-1807, and the Vincennes
                                Western Sun, 1807-1811.
                        47Centinel of the Northwestern Territory, August 15,
                            1795.
                    
                        Advertisement for a runaway wife firm the Vincennes Western
                            Sun,January 12, 1812 Notices such as this one were intended to prevent a
                            husband's financial loss and peserve his standing in the community.
                    had "deserted her infant children."48 In adding that
                    line, Harden was not simply insulating himself from financial loss, but safeguarding his honor by
                    asserting that his erstwhile wife was no good.
                Those sentiments were echoed by Sergeant John Bentley of the 5th U.S. Regiment at Fort Wayne. When he
                    announced that his wife had left him for the arms of one Silvanus Reynolds, he prefaced the account
                    with "INJUSTICE." He further warned others against contracting with her, or
                    (echoing apprentice ads) even harboring her. Perhaps most anguished was Uriah Gates, who posted
                    about his wife Rebecca on Christmas Eve, 1800. Apparently she did come back, but by early 1807, the
                    hapless Gates again notified the public of her desertion, this time with the preamble
                    "O!O!O! Woman!" Few ads were clearer, or nastier, than that posted by Garret
                    Cavenagh about his wife Nancy. Nancy, he alleged, had 
                        48Ibid., June 21, 1794, July 11, 1795; Poor ad in Western
                                Spy, January 2, 1802, Harden ad in Vincennes Western Sun,January
                            12, 1812.
                    run off with an ex-soldier, and the two of them had
                    stolen all of the household furnishings, and even Garret's spare clothing. Nancy also
                    pilfered the deed for two land lots in 
                        Columbia
                    , which Garret had already sold. Cavenagh warned the public not to trust her, or to make
                    any contracts with her on his behalf, as she was a "Whore, a Thief, a Drunkard, a Lyar, and
                    a Perjured Wretch! !"49
                Men posting such ads gambled as to how their friends and neighbors would interpret their tales of
                    woe. They also risked retaliation in kind from their absent spouses. While not common, several women
                    did take the time and expense to publicly defend their honor in print. Thomas Jackson may well have
                    regretted broadcasting his wife Flora's absence, when he saw her response: Notice.
                
                    AS THOMAS JACKSON advertised that I left him, with out any just cause, and warned any person or
                        persons from har bouring me-I am obligated to inform the public that he threatened taking my
                        life, and abused me most shamefully, which was the reason of my leaving my late place of
                        residence. N. B. As Thomas Jackson's master has promised to keep a servant from
                        troubling me, I wish he would fulfill his promise and keep him at home. FloraJackson, 
                            Cinn.
                        , April 8, 1806.50
                
                Rachel Cooper sought to counter an ad placed by her husband Christian. She had not left him, she
                    insisted, but in fact he had "eloped from me." Furthermore, as he had taken
                    property rightfully given her, leaving her nothing, she warned that "all persons are
                    cautioned not to trust him as they will be sure of never being paid."51
                One of the more detailed and cutting responses imaginable came from Betsey Hendrickson regarding her
                        husband:
                        WHEREAS my man Henry Hendrickson, has paid me the compliment of putting my name in the public
                            newspapers, I think it
                                49Western Spy, November 12, 1799; Gates ads
                                    December 24, 1800 and January 6, 1807; Cavenagh ad in Liberty Hall and
                                        Cincinnati Mercury, August 27, 1796.
                                50Wester Spy, April 15, 1806.
                                51Ibid., September 12, 1804.
                            a duty I owe to myself to return the
                            compliment-he has stated that I left his bed and board without just cause, which is a lie in
                            two respects-first I can prove that he forced me away; secondly, I had occasion to go away
                            if he had not sent me away.
                    For unspecified "reasons to dilicate [sic] for me to relate," Henry had
                    moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and sent for Betsy on numerous occasions. Finally, "thro' much
                    hardship," she made the trip. "[B]ut alas, what did I find, his constant practice
                    was hugging and kissing Dick Willey's wife." Betsy then alleged that much more
                    could be proven against Henry and that she meant to do so in court.52
                As with the runaway wife ads, divorce suit notices were posted in the papers, and, while prescribed
                    by law, also offered an opportunity to strike back at one's spouse. Both men and women made
                    such use of them. William Hardin posted a notice announcing his suit against his wife Amelia, adding
                    that he was "praying a divorce from the said Amelia for cause of adultery."53
                In modern tabloid fashion, Alexander Simpson posted the results from his recent divorce trial. As the
                    case was already decided, the ad served more to vent spleen than to disseminate information:
                        At the Supreme court, which rose on Saturday last, a divorce was decreed between Alexander
                            Simpson and Rebecca his wife, with out allowing her any of his property, he having proven
                            that she was caught at two different times with two different men, who were brothers, by the
                            names of Reuben Doty and John Doty. ALEXANDER SIMPSON. Sept. 19, 1804.54
                    
                Martha Bird addressed her notice "to the public generally, and to John Bird … who
                    has long since absconded, in particular." Martha identified herself as the daughter of
                    Samuel Moore of South Bend (
                        Ohio
                    ), and also "the woman the said John Bird married, (and soon after without
                        
                        52Westem Spy, December 7, 1811. 
                        53Vincennes Western Sun, September 22, 1812.
                        54Westem Spy, October 3, 1804.
                    cause abandoned and married Abigail Atter)." She
                    gave notice that she had already filed papers against John in the office of the Ohio State Supreme
                    Court to have the marriage dissolved in the next court session.55
                While petitioners for divorce had no choice but to look to the legislature or the courts, Americans
                    on the frontier of the Early Republic often relied upon the community for general law enforcement.
                    Without a professional police force and with only a few sheriffs, deputies, and justices of the
                    peace, communities developed a law enforcement strategy that was somewhere between a neighborhood
                    watch and outright vigilantism. While such a system respected the republican desire to be free from
                    excess government and taxes, its results must often have been discouraging. When criminals could be
                    located and arrested, there was little guarantee that the local jail could hold them until the
                        trial.56
                Newspaper ads for runaways in the Ohio Valley, then, performed numerous functions for the citizenry
                    The ads were meant to safeguard men's investments--financially, as well as emotionally and
                    socially By alerting the public to the presence of runaways, masters/husbands sought to diminish the
                    absconded's chances of getting a better "contract" elsewhere--as a free
                    laborer, artisan, or spouse--by implying that those who fled did so from impure or unjust motives.
                    The advertisements aided the greater patriarchal order's system of unfree labor by seeking
                    to delegitimize any justifications for running off. At the same time, the ads served
                    masters' needs to fashion their images and defend their public honor to the community at
                    large, by insisting that they were blameless in any broken contract. Along with these reasons, I
                    would argue that
                        55Ibid.,July 3, 1805.
                        56Jailed criminals appear to have had a laughably easy time escaping.
                            At the 
                                Hamilton County
                             jail in 
                                Cincinnati
                            , for example, in a survey of the Centinel of the Northwestern
                                Territory of less than two years (September 28, 1794 May 28, 1796), at least
                            forty-five men escaped either the jail or the custody of deputies. Certainly the jail was
                            shabby, a conglomeration of poorly fitted wood planks, with no concrete and a weak
                            foundation. But note that the vast majority who escaped were not violent criminals, or even
                            thieves, but debtors. Quite possibly, the frontier community at large was sympathetic toward
                            debtors, because the local economy was often precarious. They may have been loath to track
                            down, or even complicit in the escape of, men who differed from them only in luck. Further,
                            the threat to the community posed by at-large debtors did not justify, for most settlers,
                            the perceived ills of a more professional police force.
                    many runaway ads served a personal need for vengeance by
                    allowing the offended master "the last word," if only in print.
                Men of property faced a difficult situation on the frontier of the Early Republic. Having overthrown
                    a strong, centralized government in the Revolution, they had to balance their hard-won liberty with
                    real-world concerns about the nature of power and control in their society. In general they wanted
                    order and justice, yet in many instances they lacked the technology or funding necessary to see to
                    the enforcement of their own laws. Rather than pay for such instruments through taxation, or risk
                    possible oppression from law officers, they opted to rely upon friends and neighbors by throwing
                    certain legal concerns into the public arena. The frontier newspapers were vital to this process.
                    They allowed the propertied citizenry to seek lost spouses, apprentices, and slaves, to vent
                    frustrations, to search for criminals, and to enjoy petty revenge, all for a few pennies per week--a
                    small price to pay for their liberty.
            
            
            
                Herman B Wells and the Legacy of Leadership at Indiana University
                KENNETH GROS LOUIS
                1963 was a good year to seek a faculty position in higher education. Universities were burgeoning
                    with the influx of students born to World War II veterans, and the prospects for further growth
                    seemed limitless. State financial support was high, with no end in sight. Thus, finishing my Ph.D.
                    in English at the University of Wisconsin, I visited many schools at their invitation. At each place
                    I went, I attended a reception where I was introduced to faculty in the department by their titles:
                    Assistant Professor X; Associate Professor Y; Professor Z; etc. At Indiana University, however, I
                    and other candidates with me were introduced to faculty by their first names, no matter their rank
                    or age. I sensed something different about 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                     and thought, much to the surprise of my friends in the East, that I would go there for
                    "a few years"-that was 43 years ago.
                When I started at IU in the fall of 1964, the things I had sensed in the interview the year before
                    turned out to be accurate: the campus was collegial, friendly, humane, understated, and, if such a
                    word can be used about a campus, happy.
                
                    Kenneth Gros Louis is University Chancellor and Trustee Professor, Indiana University
                        Bloomington.
                
                
                
                    Kenneth Gros Louis in 1966 Courtesy of the Indiana University Archives
                
                These characteristics owed a great deal to the personality of Herman B Wells, president of IU from
                    1937-1962, and university chancellor from 1962 until his death in 2000. Wells was an enormously
                    generous person, one who valued every member of the academic community, from a custodian to the most
                    senior and distinguished professor. He treated each with respect, reaching out to them as only
                    someone with his deep regard for others could do. Wells and I became good friends (we also happened
                    to share the same fraternity, Sigma Nu) when I myself became active in administration, first as
                    chair of the English Department in the mid-1970s, later as dean of the College of Arts and Sciences,
                    and then, from 1980 to 2001, as chancellor of the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus and vice president for academic affairs for the university. I was called back to
                    that position in January 2004 and served for two more years, after which the trustees gave me the
                    singular honor of naming me University Chancellor, a title that had only been held by one person
                    before: Herman Wells.
                
                In 2007, Indiana University begins a major transition. A new president took office on July 1; five or
                    six trustees with relatively little experience on the board make up its majority; a new 
                        Bloomington
                     provost has been chosen; and several new administrators are in place on all
                    campuses--most notably in the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus's largest school, the College of Arts & Sciences. Of course,
                    one would expect major differences between 1964 and 2007. University-wide enrollment then was
                    36,397; full-time faculty numbered 1,539. Student enrollment in 2006-07 has climbed to 97,959; the
                    university now employs 5,144 full-time faculty More importantly, in 1964 
                        Bloomington
                     was still IU's only campus; the then-called extension centers around the state
                    were just beginning to establish campuses in their own right. Even IUPUI would not be founded until
                    1969. Today, IU comprises eight campuses and two centers (
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                    ), and the university maintains an annual budget of more than two billion dollars.
                    Beyond these structural transformations within the university itself, however, many changes in
                    American society and culture-some of them driven by college graduates and university leaders-have
                    reshaped how IU is run, as well as how public higher education functions in the 
                        United States
                    . Obviously, leading IU in 2007 requires a set of skills much different from those
                    needed in 1964. The task may require, as well, a different set of values (I say
                    "may" because some of the values espoused by Herman Wells are still valid).
                The constituencies to which IU's new president must respond are far more numerous than they
                    were when I arrived at the university In addition to the students, families, faculty, and staff who
                    remain central to the university, these constituencies today include more than 495,000 living
                    alumni, the communities and regions in which IU has campuses or centers, all of the members of the
                    General Assembly (as opposed to the handful of key legislators who, in Wells's time, tended
                    to call the shots), a board of trustees much more into micromanaging than ever before, and a State
                    Commission for Higher Education that has attempted since its establishment in the 1970s to get its
                    arms around public higher education in Indiana.
                The issues awaiting the university's new leadership, while not unlike those of 1964, are
                    much more complicated and complex. As the percentage of the operating budget from the state has
                    decreased over the last thirty years, the gaps must be made up. Some of that need has resulted in
                    higher tuition, but there remains great pressure on the IU Foundation and on the development
                    officers of the individual campusesand schools to raise private
                    funds, as well as a push for more external funding from federal agencies, foundations, and industry
                    There exists here and elsewhere in the country a new emphasis on public universities as engines for
                    economic growth in their states. 
                        Indiana
                    , which is, like 
                        Michigan
                    , 
                        Texas
                    , and 
                        California
                    , staking its future heavily on research in the life sciences, will be requesting
                    between 1.2 and 1.5 billion dollars from the state over the next decade in support of the
                    initiative. Interest in IU's athletic programs, especially football and basketball, stands
                    at an all-time high; these programs exert their own demands upon the university's fiscal
                    resources. Meanwhile, as undergraduate tuition has increased, students (and in some cases their
                    families) view themselves as customers entitled to certain rights and privileges; their further
                    expectation that undergraduate education should lead directly to employment translates into enormous
                    interest in the quality of placement offices. Several years ago what was initially created in the
                    1970s as the Indiana Vocational and Technical College was transformed, at the urging of Gov. Frank
                    O'Bannon, to a community college. The campuses of Ivy Tech now offer general education
                    courses as well as vocational and technical training. This major shift offers challenges, especially
                    to IU's regional campuses, and perhaps opportunities as well. The tension between IUPUI and 
                        Bloomington
                    , which has existed for many years, has grown greater in recent years as IUPUI faculty
                    and alumni urge the trustees and the state to recognize their campus's research strengths,
                    and even to consider IUPUI an equal, in its quality, power, and authority, to campuses in 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        West Lafayette
                    .
                This final issue raises an important question that will continue to face IU's leaders in the
                    coming years. Is Indiana University one university or a university system-that is, are we a single
                    entity with multiple campuses, or a collection of campuses under one name, such as the University of
                    Wisconsin? Presidents and board members have consistently advanced the idea that IU is one
                    university Tom Ehrlich, who served as IU president from 1987 to 1994, coined the phrase
                    "one university with eight front doors." Ehrlich's slogan really
                    didn't hold because of the feeling that 
                        Bloomington
                     was the dominant campus; the phrase turned into "one university with one front
                    door and seven trap doors"! Myles Brand, president from 1994 to 2002, tried the phrase
                    "America's new public university," but that did not get very far either,
                    as alumni wanted to know what was wrong with America's old public
                    university.
                As these unsuccessful labeling efforts suggest, the controversy over IU's identity reflects
                    a broader cultural critique of higher education. The existence
                    of such a critique should not surprise us. During the 
                        Viet Nam
                     and Watergate years, the military and government came in for close scrutiny. The
                    questionable practices of savings and loan associations, healthcare providers and insurance
                    companies, and corporate CEOs and their boards of directors, have each garnered similar public
                    attention in their time.
                The attacks on higher education flourished between the late 1980s and the mid-1990s. The reasons for
                    the appearance during this period of such books as Profscam: Professors and the Demise
                        of Higher Education (1988) by Charles J. Sykes; The Closing of the American
                        Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's
                        Students (1987) by Allan Bloom; and Tenured Radicals: How Politics has
                        Corrupted our Higher Education (1990) by Roger Kimball are quite clear: each of these
                    attacks responded to the growing practice, especially in research institutions, of providing
                    significantly greater rewards to faculty members for their research activities than for the quality
                    of their teaching or service. My colleagues on the Committee for Institutional Cooperation (CIC,
                    comprising the chief academic officers of the Big Ten plus the University of Chicago) recognized
                    this skewed rewards system and tried to identify means to enhance rewards for good teachers.
                    Obviously, research, because it is reviewed by external entities (whether faculty committees or
                    advisors to agencies and foundations), is much easier to measure than teaching. Still, significant
                    advances have been made against the skewing of the reward system, and the attack on
                    "children teaching children" (a reference to graduate students taking over much of
                    the undergraduate teaching load) has subsided.
                There were, however, consequences to these attacks. As legislatures across the country decreased the
                    proportion of state contributions to the operating budgets of public higher education institutions,
                    universities made up the difference in hefty tuition increases, often outpacing rises in inflation.
                    Parents came increasingly to expect proper training, placement, and care for their children, and
                    students, acting in the role of customers, expected special treatment. I have heard many presidents
                    point out that the phrase "state supported"-a normal synonym for public higher
                    education in Herman Wells's time-changed to "state assisted," and has
                    more recently become "state located." In some states the percentage of the budget
                    from the legislature rests in single digits. The state-provided percentage of IU's
                    operating budget was 48 percent in 1976 and 23 percent in 2006; for 
                        Bloomington
                    , the figures are 52 percent in 1976 and 22 percent in 2006. In such an atmosphere of
                    questioning and criticism, university trustees or regents want
                    detailed information about policies in which they took no interest at all in past decades. The
                    responsibility of continual explanation, defense, and advocacy falls heavily on administrators at
                    all levels of institutions like IU.
                Another casualty of the critical attention focused on universities has been the average
                    administrative term of office. During my first decade or so at IU, it was typical for chairs of
                    large departments to serve up to 25 years; the same was true of deans. While the number of years was
                    somewhat less, presidential service tended to range into double digits. Now, chairs and deans come
                    and go with much greater frequency, while the typical college president in this country serves an
                    average of five or six years. This change adversely affects the potential for long-range
                    planning--which is in my opinion crucial to the success of higher education institutions--and it
                    also leads to real confusion among citizens concerning the priorities (because they seem to change
                    so often) of institutions like 
                        Indiana
                     and Purdue, in this state, and of comparable institutions in surrounding states.
                Herman Wells was as richly endowed with leadership skills as anyone I have known. But the number of
                    constituencies and the demand for accountability that characterize today's public
                    university would have taxed his talents to the fullest. What skills, then, are needed to respond to
                    these many constituencies and to satisfy their needs, requests, even demands? What skills will
                    tomorrow's leaders require to meet the challenges presented by the issues that face not
                    only the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, but IU overall?
                
                        Bloomington
                     and IU leaders need, above all, enormous energy. The staggering demands on their time
                    come not only from faculty, staff, students, and alumni, but also from groups such as the state
                    Chamber of Commerce, and from entities formed either by the governor or the state legislature to
                    revamp the 
                        Indiana
                     economy as it shifts away from manufacturing and agriculture and toward technology. The
                    president in particular must meet with individuals interested in technology transfer, with state
                    government officials planning trips abroad who need information about the countries they will be
                    visiting, with various economic groups focusing on the life sciences or medical research in general,
                    with legislators concerned about the relationship between IU's School of Education and the
                    state's K-12 schools, with managers of the Clarian Health Partners experiment that joins
                    the IU and Riley hospitals with Methodist Hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These and other meetings come on top of one-on-one conversations with members of a
                    board of trustees that delves more deeply, from my perspective,
                    into the organization of the institution than was the case in the last thirty years. Some want to
                    know in detail the admissions process; others are looking at outsourcing entities such as the motor
                    pool, the bookstore, food services in the residence halls, printing services--indeed anything not
                    directly related to the academic mission of the institution. Herman Wells certainly had energy, but
                    that energy was directed to a smaller number of individuals and a smaller cluster of issues.
                Faculty and alumni, as perhaps has always been the case, expect their leaders to have excellent
                    academic credentials while also demonstrating strong managerial experience. That combination is
                    becoming increasingly difficult to find. Some institutions have gone to an outside and inside
                    "president," though not calling it as such--meaning that one individual focuses on
                    fundraising, alumni activities, and legislative relations, while the other, almost like a
                    co-president, focuses on the academic needs of the institution and on the best means to enhance its
                    reputation and strengthen its faculty.
                "Vision" is an overused word in higher education, as it is elsewhere in American
                    culture. Nonetheless, the president is expected to demonstrate vision and to lay out a clear
                    plan--even a "strategic plan" --that points the institution in the directions it
                    needs to go to meet its priorities and to respond to its multiple constituencies and issues.
                    Everyone wants a bit of the president's time, wants him or her to manage the institution
                    well, to continue to demonstrate strengths as an academic, and to express a vision that still
                    remains grounded in sound business practices. As more than one person has said, institutions of
                    higher education looking for a president are trying to find someone who is like "God on a
                    good day".
                The business of running an institution the size and complexity of IU, then, differs significantly
                    from Herman Wells's time. In the many presidential staff meetings I attended in my 23 years
                    as 
                        Bloomington
                     chancellor and vice president for academic affairs for IU, it was difficult at times to
                    know if I was in an academic institution or not. We talked about bond ratings and the intricacies of
                    bonding authority for certain new buildings, about how IU would present itself at the State Fair,
                    about the need to update the infrastructure of an old campus like 
                        Bloomington
                    , about legal issues surrounding affirmative action and disabilities, and about other
                    matters that simply were not on the table during Wells's presidential tenure.
                Wells was a wonderful fundraiser. While we expect the same of the president and his staff in 2007,
                    the stakes are much higher: fundraising 
                        Herman B Wells, with IU faculty on the day of his inauguration as university
                            president, 1938 Courtesy Indiana Unversity Media Relations
                    has become the source of such a significant percentage of the budgets of individual schools
                    and campuses, as well as of public universities in general. The same is true of external research
                    support from federal agencies and national foundations. The call for more faculty research is as
                    much about institutional financial needs as it is about raising academic reputations. Imagine how
                    challenging it is for a president and his staff to balance the time devoted to fundraising and to
                    legislative relations, both state and federal, with time needed to maintain contact with major fed
                    eral granting agencies as well as major foundations, with time needed to cultivate prospective major
                    donors. That in itself might be considered a full-time job, but is only a portion of what a
                    president must do. The challenge is greater in 
                        Indiana
                     because ours is not a wealthy state, and the legislature supports two major research
                    institutions, while IUPUI seeks to become a third.
                Thanks in part to these fiscal pressures, Division I athletics have, for good or ill, become bigger
                    than ever at institutions like IU. The income derived from television and radio broadcast rights,
                    from adver-tising in football or basketball programs, and from
                    the sale of logo T- shirts, sweatshirts, and every other kind of item is staggering. Alumni interest
                    in athletics, always high, is even higher now than it was in Wells's time because of the
                    impact of television, especially ESPN, which televises hundreds of college basketball and football
                    games each year. The Big Ten TV Network will begin soon; each institution in the Big Ten expects to
                    net an additional five to eight million dollars in revenue annually from the network's
                    broadcasts. The fact that the University of Tennessee, Ohio State University, and the University of
                    Michigan have been battling for several years over which school's stadium would have the
                    largest seating capacity is one more indication of how close universities have come to
                    professionalizing intercollegiate sports.
                In addition to being more dependent than ever before upon commercial revenue, the contemporary
                    university must also respond to the diversification and globalization of American culture. Given all
                    the controversy surrounding affirmative action, it remains the case that ethnic groups expect not
                    only to be heavily recruited at places like IU, but also to find there assistance through mentors,
                    tutors, academic support centers, and advisors for especially difficult courses, most notably in
                    mathematics. For a small state such as 
                        Indiana
                    , the challenge is even greater. With a minority population so much smaller than that of
                    surrounding states such as 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Indiana
                     draws from a smaller minority applicant pool; the battle to get the best and brightest
                    from that pool is fearsome. The president, of course, does not actively recruit, but he or she is
                    certainly expected to encourage appropriate actions to enhance diversity at all levels of the
                    institution, as well as to speak out with some regularity on the importance of exposing university
                    students to the kind of diversity that they will surely encounter in the decades after they have
                    graduated.
                More than most university presidents, Herman Wells understood the concept of globalization long
                    before that word became commonplace. Having said that, Wells did not have to deal with the large
                    number of international students attending IU (although there were more than at many other
                    institutions in his time), nor did he have to deal with the growing belief that undergraduates must
                    spend a significant time overseas--and by that I mean not just several weeks, but preferably a whole
                    semester or year, learning another language and about another culture. The Eurocentric model is
                    fading, as the importance of 
                        India
                     and 
                        China
                     in particular becomes more apparent and as the need for university-to-university
                    relationships, student and faculty exchanges, and sup-port in
                    helping to build institutions of higher education in such countries grows each year. The president
                    is expected to have a real sense of these external forces; people anticipate that he will have a
                    plan for further internationalizing campuses such as 
                        Bloomington
                     and for achieving global literacy for all IU students.
                With all of these demands on a president's time, one cannot overlook the fact that faculty
                    and students in particular, and to a lesser degree staff, perceive the president as their leader and
                    therefore expect him or her to take a significant interest in them. With all the other groups and
                    individuals the president must deal with, he needs to remember that his primary audiences are
                    faculty and students. This means that the president must be visible at faculty events, involved in
                    faculty hires at advanced levels, knowledgeable about major shifts in disciplines and professional
                    schools and how to deal with them, while also interacting on a personal level with student leaders.
                    Is there enough time in a day? In a week or a month?
                Institutions of higher education are not dictatorships, as they were not in Wells's time.
                    People expect the president and his team to be good consensus-builders, and that, obviously, takes
                    time as well as much careful planning and effort. New initiatives don't spring full-blown
                    from the president's head. They are gradually introduced, fleshed out, widely discussed and
                    debated; then, assuming some consensus gathers around them, action can be taken. Wells had to do the
                    same thing, but, as I have said, the circle of constituents involved was much smaller and the number
                    of groups needing to be placated was also smaller. That, as many know, is one of the criticisms of
                    higher education-it is not nimble enough. I can think of many examples when IU has been nimble if
                    necessary, but it is not the customary mode of behavior.
                When all is said and done, university leaders hope to be beloved. That was certainly true of Herman
                    Wells. I think it is much more difficult now for any university president to be beloved; to expect
                    agreement on any of the complex issues I've commented on, as well as among the various
                    constituencies of the institution, is extraordinarily challenging. Praised for candor, honored for
                    good achievements, noted for some striking and successful initiatives--all might be possible, but
                    "beloved" is probably not going to be a word used at a president's
                    farewell reception.
                And that brings me back to the underlying values of higher education. When I came to IU in 1964, I
                    found it, as I indicated earlier, collegial, friendly, humane, understated, even happy. Each of
                    these values is, in my opinion, becoming more problematic at IU and other institutionslike it in the first part of the twenty-first century. Years
                    ago, the collegiality of the campus resulted from the fact that many faculty were hired at the same
                    time in the same department or school as the university expanded significantly its faculty ranks.
                    With departments such as English or History hiring six or more faculty in a given year, collegiality
                    was almost built in. Now, it is more common that one and at the most two might be hired, and, given
                    the pressure on them to achieve tenure, they might not have the time to get to know colleagues in
                    related departments or schools. That's one reason why the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus some seven years ago initiated a series of information sessions and monthly
                    programs for all new faculty on important topics--the point was not solely the topic or the
                    information, but rather to get new faculty together so that they would know their peers across
                    campus and be ready to participate fully in campus service when the time came that they achieved
                    tenure. Unfortunately, the pressure on tenure is such that most chairs and deans will encourage
                    young faculty to focus on their research and teaching, and not do much service; thus, when faculty
                    members receive tenure, they are not in the habit of serving the community and the campus. One can
                    see this in the membership of the elected Bloomington Faculty Council, which has changed only
                    slightly over the last several decades. I'm told by my colleagues on the CIC that this is a
                    major problem for the other Big Ten institutions, as well.
                While IU remains a friendly place, the competition for resources creates tensions among schools,
                    deans, faculty and staff, even students, and those tensions undermine the natural inclination, on a
                    campus such as 
                        Bloomington's
                    , to remain friendly and open. Internal competition for research awards and other kinds
                    of recognition is intense, and while such competition may enhance the campus reputation, I
                    don't believe it leads to the kind of friendly atmosphere that I experienced forty years
                    ago.
                The competitive spirit strikes, as well, at other aspects of university life. The interest on the
                    part of several trustees in outsourcing many activities, such as the university's
                    bookstores, overlooks a major strength of a campus like 
                        Bloomington's
                    . In part because of the size of the city of 
                        Bloomington
                    , employees on campus have worked here for dozens of years, as have their siblings,
                    perhaps their parents, even their grandparents. That tradition has created a peculiar and unique
                    culture among Big Ten institutions. All the staff members that I know, no matter where they work,
                    have enormous loyalty to the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus and to IU, and take great pride in the ways in which their work contributes to
                        thesuccess of the institution. If the trustees continue to
                    outsource other entities not directly contributing to academics, inevitably over time individuals in
                    charge of these units will have little or no loyalty to 
                        Bloomington
                     and IU, little or no sense of pride in how they are advancing the institution. The
                    money saved from this outsourcing is not great and is, in most cases, one-time funding only. This
                    gives the current trustees additional resources to devote to infrastructure and renovations, but it
                    leaves future trustees with no such resources, without knowledge of what prices might be charged by
                    the external agency that wins the bidding process and becomes the "owner" of the
                    bookstore, residential food services, printing services, or whatever. In terms of maintaining 
                        Bloomington
                     culture, outsourcing is shortsighted; in terms of the resources gained, it makes the
                    current trustees look good at the expense of burdening their successors. Inevitably, outsourcing
                    leads to layoffs or to shifts to new jobs which may or may not take advantage of the
                    employee's strengths built over time. In short, outsourcing is already making the campus
                    less humane than it was in Wells's time and has the potential of destroying a culture that
                    made the campus so attractive to me when I arrived here in 1964.
                One of the many reasons why Herman Wells was beloved was because he was so visible. A president gives
                    a face and a voice to a university. Now, however, that face and voice may be more visible to
                    constituencies and audiences outside of IU campuses than it is to those on-campus constituents who
                    want the president to be at once their colleague and leader. That traditional presence before
                    faculty, staff, and students is not just an agent of collegiality--it is itself an act of
                    collegiality: if the president is known, the campuses feel that he or she knows about the people and
                    the character and the value of the work that they do. I have said elsewhere that I deeply regret
                    that outgoing IU president Adam Herbert's enormous warmth did not get sufficient attention
                    during his term. That may be a result of the structure of the job. Perhaps the values that Herman
                    Wells stood for--a sense of commonality, of working to achieve and to advance common educational and
                    institutional results--are now irretrievable. Still, they are the ones that Wells embodied, and the
                    new president, along with the people who help to arrange the structure of his job, would do well to
                    try to find twenty-first-century ways to show that the IU presidency continues to stand for the
                    things that people in the University will do and believe in for four years, or eight years, or their
                    entire lives.
            
            
            
                "The Gentleman from Indianapolis"
                Kurt Vonnegut, 1922-2007
                GREGORY SUMNER
                
                    Henry David Thoreau said, "I have traveled extensively in 
                            Concord
                        ." … . [W]hat he said about 
                            Concord
                         is what every child feels, what every child seemingly must feel,
                        about the place where he or she was born. There is surely more than enough to marvel at for a
                        lifetime, no matter where the child is born. Castles? 
                            Indianapolis
                         was full of them.
                
                In his 1981 "autobiographical collage," Palm Sunday, Kurt
                    Vonnegut recounted the frustration he experienced trying to convince the Indianapolis
                        Star to run an obituary for another city-native-made-good, Janet Flanner. For decades,
                    Flanner had been 
                        Paris
                     correspondent for The New Yorker, and, like Vonnegut, she was a
                    member of the prestigious American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. In Vonnegut's
                    estimation, Flanner was "the most deft and charming literary stylist Indianapolis has so
                    far produced, and the one who came closest 
                        Gregory Sumner is professor of American history at the University of Detroit Mercy. He is
                            the author of Dwight Macdonald and the Politics Circle: The Challenge of
                                Cosmopolitan Democracy (1996). An 
                                Indianapolis
                             native, he is currently writing an intellectual biography of Kurt
                        Vonnegut.
                    
                        Kurt Vonnegut, c. 1984 Courtesy Butler University
                    to being a planetary citizen, too." Despite
                    these achievements, no one he spoke to over the phone at the Star's city
                    room had ever heard of her. Vonnegut was able at last to overcome their disinterest when he
                    mentioned that she was related to the family who ran a prominent chain of local funeral homes. From
                    this he concluded that his "legacy," too, was secure--that, when the time came, he
                    would have no problem getting an appropriate obituary in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper, "because I am related to people who used to own a chain of hardware
                        stores."1
                The cultural provincialism Kurt Vonnegut decried and often parodied still exists in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but, judging from how the city responded to his death this past April, he need not
                    have worried that his life and career would be reduced to his connections to the (still fondly
                    remembered) Vonnegut Hardware chain. The city had already embarked in 2007 on "The Year of
                    Kurt Vonnegut," an ambitious program of community activities and events honoring his
                    "Indianapolis heritage and literary contributions to the world." Among the
                    highlights were mayoral proclamations, a "one city-one book" library promotion of
                    his 1969 antiwar masterpiece, Slaughterhouse-Five, exhibitions of his silkscreens
                    (a passion in his later years), and a McFadden Lecture at Butler University, which took place, as it
                    turned out, two weeks after his death. Mark Vonnegut delivered his father's last speech to
                    a packed audience at Clowes Hall on April 27. The next day, fellow 
                        Indianapolis
                     literary alum Dan Wakefield, speaking at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, offered an
                    emotional testament to the generosity of his friend and mentor. The memorial lovefest was sincere
                    and widespread, and represented the last phase of a rapprochement of sorts between Kurt Vonnegut and
                    his native city which had been in the works for some time.
                Vonnegut left 
                        Indiana
                     for good more than six decades ago. In 1940, after graduation from Shortridge High
                    School, he embarked on a short career as a chemistry student at Cornell University, then served as a
                    soldier in the Second World War. After the war, he studied anthropology at the University of
                    Chicago, then worked in public relations for General Electric in 
                        Schenectady
                    , 
                        New York
                    . He labored as a writer in the 1950s and 1960s, struggling to support his family on
                        Cape Cod. And, since 1970, he lived as an
                    iconic presence on the East Side of Manhattan, producing books for a global audience. Through it
                    all, Vonnegut wore his
                        1Kurt Vonnegut, Palm Sunday: An
                                Autobiographical Collage (New York, 1981), 53, 60-61.
                    Hoosier identity on his sleeve. He incorporated it into
                    his work, and often discussed his complex relationship to the land of his formative years. He was
                    perhaps too humble to claim the mantle he admired, once worn by Booth Tarkington-"The
                    Gentleman from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." But it is clear that, for our time, he deserves that encomium.
                
                        Indianapolis
                    --"the only human settlement in all of history whose location was determined by
                    a pen and a straightedge," he once told John Updike--was of course the site of profound
                    pain as well as joy growing up. Kurt VonnegutJr. was born into the fourth generation of a
                    spectacularly prosperous German American extended family of farmers, merchants, and artisans that
                    first arrived in Indianapolis in the years before the Civil War. As his Uncle John Rauch observed in
                    the family history that occupies the first section of 
                        Palm Sunday
                    :
                        The immigrants had been literally starved-materially and socially-in the Nineteenth Century
                            of Western Europe. When they came here and found the rich table of the Midwest, they gorged
                            themselves. And who can blame them? In the process they created an Empire by the hardest
                            work and exercise of their inherent and varied talents.
                     These "guilt-free" people of the German tide, Vonnegut wrote, had not
                    been involved in "the genocides and ethnic cleansing which had made this for them a virgin
                    continent." Upon arrival, they built successful networks of businesses and social clubs
                    throughout the Midwest, notably in cities like 
                        Milwaukee
                    , 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        Detroit
                    , and Cincinnati. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on the paternal side of the family, the empire included a burgeoning drygoods business
                    which later became Vonnegut Hardware. Its success made the Vonneguts aristocratic leaders of their
                    community and allowed the men to pursue professions. Kurt's grandfather, Bernard, and
                    father, Kurt Sr., were licensed architects, responsible for many of the architectural gems of
                    Indianapolis, including Das Deutsche Haus, the L. S. Ayres department store (and
                    its legendary clock), the William H. Block building, the Lyric Theatre, and the Bell Telephone
                    downtown headquarters. Kurt's mother, Edith, despite a traumatic childhood, was similarly
                    the beneficiary of the Lieber Brewery fortune, which afforded her an elite education, grand tours of
                    European churches, museums, and castles, and high expectations for the future. Kurt and
                    Edith's wedding party at the Claypool Hotel in 1913 was
                    an extravagant celebration, both in cost and scale, an event "long remembered in
                    Indianapolis," according to Uncle John. "The next year," however,
                    "came the First World War and then prohibition. The curtain fell on a glorious scene--never
                    to be witnessed again." The xenophobic furies unleashed by the war effectively
                    "lobotomized" the German American community in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in Kurt Vonnegut's words. Das Deutsche Haus, splashed by
                    vandals with yellow paint, became the Atheneum. Kurt and Edith grew so afflicted with Weltshmerz for their lost prewar world that they were unable or unwilling to pass along
                    much German language, music, or culture to their youngest son, Kurt Jr., who arrived in 1922.
                    "They volunteered to make me ignorant and rootless as proof of their patriotism,"
                    Vonnegut recalled ruefully. His parents separated him so thoroughly from his ancestral past, he
                    wrote, that the German soldiers who captured him at the Battle of the Bulge in 1944, far from being
                    brothers, "might as well have been Bolivians or Tibetans for all they meant to
                        me."2
                By the time of the Great Depression, the Vonneguts' financial fortunes also went into steep
                    decline. There were no missed meals at their elegant home on North Illinois Street, but Kurt Sr.
                    could not find a commission for a decade and a half after the stock market crash of 1929. The family
                    found itself juggling creditors (enduring a growing, humiliating reputation as
                    "charge-account deadbeats") and sinking on capital made of quicksand. The stress
                    of these losses no doubt contributed to Edith's suicide on Mother's Day weekend
                    1944, with her youngest son visiting home while training to go overseas at Camp Atterbury. It also
                    "gutted" the spirit of Kurt Sr., who, after the war, became a recluse, eventually
                    living out his life in solitude as a potter in 
                        Brown County
                     until his death in 1957.
                As a youngster, Kurt Jr. felt these blows profoundly. He always described himself, first and
                    foremost, as a child of the Great Depression, with all the desperate insecurity and fatalism that
                    the phrase implies. To be sure, his parents, despite their difficulties, did provide a
                        nurturing
                        2Vonnegut, Fates Worse Than Death: An Autobiographical
                                Collage (
                                New York
                             1991), 93; Palm Sunday, 41, 46-48, 20-21, 78-79; A Man Without a Country (
                                New York
                            , 2005), 52. For a darker view of nineteenth-century
                            "empire-building" in the Midwest, where "a handful of rapacious
                            citizens come to control all that [is] worth controlling" in "Rosewater
                            County, Indiana," see Vonnegut, God Bless You, Mr Rosewater (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 8-12.
                        3Vonnegut, Fates Worse Than Death, 23; Palm Sunday, 143, 48-52.
                    home in many respects. Even amid the world of
                    "empty graces and aggressively useless possessions" whose passing they mourned,
                    the house was full of books, magazines, and art, and they inoculated their children against what
                    they saw as the twin poisons of organized religion and racism. As to the former, Kurt inherited the
                    ancestral creed of free-thinking skepticism, although he often termed himself a
                    "Christ-worshipping agnostic," referring to the Christ of the Sermon on the Mount.
                    As to the latter, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Vonnegut remembered, was as divided by Jim Crow segregation during his childhood as
                    any southern city. Of his parents, he said, "I'm grateful that I learned from them
                    that organized religion is anti-Christian and that racial prejudices are stupid and
                        cruel."4
                Still, loss is a dominant motif of his youth. Like his elder siblings, Bernard and Edith, he had no
                    reason to return home once he left for the larger world. "The planet (my parents) loved and
                    thought they understood was destroyed in the First World War." The warm "folk
                    society" prepared for the next generation had disintegrated. In future years Vonnegut, like
                    millions of other displaced, "rootless" Americans, would pose this question when
                    visiting his native city: "'Where is my bed?'" He eventually
                    ended up on the East Coast, convinced that the Midwest was a lonelier, less hospitable place to
                    practice writing or the arts. "No writers live there," he said in 1969.
                    "[A]s a writer, you don't feel you're pulling your weight, doing
                    man's work." In a similar vein, he commented on the persistence of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     of his grandfather's generation, where "the practice of the arts was
                    regarded as an evasion of real life by means of parlor tricks." Over the decades he saw
                    many of the downtown buildings created by his family bulldozed in favor of parking lots. He observed
                    in 1980:
                        Vonnegut, Fates Worse Than Death, 113; 
                                Palm Sunday
                            , 54, 89, 298. Another key figure in Vonnegut's inoculation against race
                            prejudice was Ida Young, the "humane and wise" black woman who worked in
                            the Vonnegut home and "essentially raised" young Kurt, nurturing the
                            'compassionate, forgiving aspects" of his beliefs. Hank Nuwer, "A
                            Skull Session with Kurt Vonnegut," in Conversations with Kurt
                            Vonnegut, William Rodney Allen, ed. (
                                Jackson
                            , 
                                Miss.
                            , 1988), 244-45. Another 
                                Indianapolis
                             woman who influenced Vonnegut was Phoebe Hurty, to whom he dedicated his novel
                                
                                Breakfast of Champions
                            . Hurty, a widow who wrote an irreverent advice column for the Indianapolis News, spoke
                            "bawdily" to her sons, Kurt, and the other teenagers who spent time at her
                            house in the late 1930s. "She was liberating," Vonnegut recalled.
                            "She taught us to be impolite in conversation not only about sexual matters, but
                            about American history and famous heroes, about the distribution of wealth, about school,
                            about everything." Breakfast of Champions (
                                New York
                            , 1973), 1-2.
                    
                    
                        
                                Indianapolis
                             has had the misfortune to continually prosper and, when a city enjoys that type
                            of prosperity, it enjoys the ability to continually "renew" itself.
                            "Renew" is the wrong term, of course. What the city does is
                            architecturally destroy itself. It cannibalizes the types of graceful and delicate
                            architecture that made it a thing of beauty. So I guess there was something harrowing for my
                            father: existing in a city, a provincial capital like 
                                Indianapolis
                            , witnessing the systematic replacement of works of art, many of which he helped
                            create, with a bunch of amorphous cinder blocks.
                    In a reference to his wartime experience at Dresden, he concluded that "[t]hey
                    might as well have dropped a bomb on 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."5
                Vonnegut bemoaned the reactionary, chamber-of-commerce Babbitry of the city's postwar
                    leadership. By the time I encountered his books, a decade after his discovery by the 1960s
                    counterculture, I recognized the "
                        Midland City
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    ," of Breakfast of Champions as the arid, lonesome sprawl of
                    1970s suburban 
                        Indianapolis
                     where I grew up, with its interstates and billboards for "Exit 11"
                    car dealerships, its Holiday Inns and Burger Chefs, its culverts filled with toxic water, its
                    ridiculously boosterish "Festivals of the Arts." In his 1986 McFadden Lecture I
                    heard him challenge his audience about what had happened to the progressive city of the arts that 
                        Indianapolis
                     had promised to become. Kurt Vonnegut was hailed as a celebrity by the city-his fame
                    could not be denied. But the style and "vulgar" content of his books scandalized
                    many back home, who either ignored or condemned his writing. He maintained that his use of raw
                    language and imagery, his pessimism, and the "bad manners" exhibited in his later
                    books, were an attempt at last to break through the mendacious middle-class propriety with which he
                    had been raised. "Even when I was in grammar school," he wrote, "I
                    suspected that warnings about words that nice people never used were in fact lessons in how to keep
                    our mouths shut not just about our bodies,
                        5David Standish, "Playboy Interview," in Conversations, 85, 79; Robert Taylor, "Kurt Vonnegut,"
                            in Conversations, 8; Palm Sunday, 39; Charles Reilly,
                            "Two Conversations with Kurt Vonnegut," in Conversations, 228-29. Vonnegut similarly applied his apocalyptic imagination to the
                            charac ter Eliot Rosewater, who envisions Indianapolis being consumed by a Dresden-like
                            firestorm. God Bless You, Mr Rosewater, 251-53.
                    but about many, many things-perhaps too many
                    things." In any event, Vonnegut's critiques of his Hoosier roots, sometimes gentle
                    (see Cat's Cradle and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater),
                    sometimes scorching (Breakfast of Champions), hurt, and his pacifism, as well as
                    his antipathy to what he saw as the rapacious social Darwinism of the Nixon, Reagan, and Bush years,
                    did not go over well with many in "red state" 
                        Indiana
                    . 6
                But Vonnegut never abandoned his Hoosier identity He recalled with lyrical beauty long-ago summers at
                    the family cottage on Lake Maxincuckee, and reiterated his sense of exile in the East. "I
                    am one of America's Great Lakes people, her freshwater people, not an oceanic but a
                    continental people," he wrote in his final collection, A Man without a
                    Country (2005). "Whenever I swim in an ocean, I feel as though I am swimming in
                    chicken soup." He defended his region against those in the smug, bicoastal cognoscenti who dismissed it as "flyover country" In a letter to me in
                    1997, Vonnegut commented about the "almost willful ignorance" he observed among
                    many 
                        New York
                        City
                     intellectuals about the Middle West. They would be shocked, he wrote, to find
                    "kindred souls" in art and thought living out in the hinterlands.7
                In matters of voice and writing style, Vonnegut trusted himself most when he used the language of a
                    person from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "where common speech sounds like a band saw cutting galvanized tin, and
                    employs a vocabulary as unornamental as a monkey wrench." He chose simplicity, clarity, and
                    economy over baroque virtuosity, despite the fact that "to literary critics and academics
                    in this country … clarity looks a lot like laziness and ignorance and childishness and
                    cheapness… . Any idea which can be grasped immediately is for them, by definition,
                    something they knew all the time." Vonnegut admired and emulated Mark Twain, Lincoln, and
                    other writers-"country boys from Middle America,
                        6Vonnegut, Palm Sunday, 203. In a review of Dan
                            Wakefield's 
                                Indianapolis
                             coming-of-age novel Going All the Way (
                                New York
                            , 1970), Vonnegut applauded the author for capturing "the narrowness
                            and dimness of many lives out that way," circa the early 1950s. He cautioned that
                            Wakefield, "having written this book, can never go home again. From now on, he will
                            have to watch the 500-Mile Speedway race on television." Wampeters,
                                Foma & Granfalloons (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 118. Vonnegut poked fun at the idea of "Hoosiers" as
                            a granfalloon, an absurdly "proud and meaningless association of human
                            beings," in Cat's Cradle (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 89-92; Wampeters, xv.
                        7Vonnegut, Fates Worse Than Death, 49-53; Man Without a Country, 10; Kurt Vonnegut, letter to author, April 5,
                        1997.
                    … [who] made the American people laugh at
                    themselves and appreciate really important, really moral jokes." Like them, he was a man
                    grounded by the values of the heartland, a self-educated, marginalized "rustic"
                    challenging the cultural establishment on his own terms. Aside from his sister Alice, writers in the
                    Mark Twain mold, and the radio comedians he loved during the 1930s, Vonnegut cited 
                        Indiana
                     humorist Kin Hubbard ("often as witty as Oscar Wilde") as a primary
                    influence on his comic sensibility For decades Hubbard wrote a daily joke for the Indianapolis News, making his points with sly, homespun observations like
                    "Prohibition is better than no liquor at all," and, "it's no
                    disgrace to be poor, but it might as well be."8
                Kurt Vonnegut's politics, likewise, came from a progressive Hoosier tradition, partially
                    imported from European immigrants--notably the trade union socialism of Eugene Debs and Powers
                    Hapgood. (The narrator of his 1991 novel Hocus Pocus has the name "Eugene
                    Debs Hartke," a peculiar southwestern 
                        Indiana
                     amalgam.) Vonnegut, who had to leave private school after the third grade, never missed
                    an opportunity to praise the education he received at 
                        Indianapolis
                     PS. 43 ("James Whitcomb Riley" elementary school). Later at
                    Shortridge, he honed his writing skills as an editor of The Echo, the only high
                    school daily in the country Here is Vonnegut's loving description of the Indianapolis of
                    his youth from Fates Worse Than Death (1991):
                        That city gave me a free primary and secondary education richer and more humane than anything
                            I would get from any of the five universities I attended (Cornell, Butler, Carnegie Tech, 
                                Tennessee
                            , and 
                                Chicago
                            ). It had a widespread system of free libraries whose attendants seemed to my
                            young mind to be angels of fun with information. There were cheap movie houses and jazz
                            joints everywhere. There was a fine symphony orchestra.9
                    
                His notions of "radical democracy" came not from the Communist Party of the 1930s
                    but from his 
                        Indianapolis
                     public education. He once told Playboy:
                        8Vonnegut, Palm Sunday, 70, 291; Man
                                Without A Country, 75; Palm Sunday, 157-58.
                        9Vonnegut, Man Without a Country, 11-14; Fates Worse Than Death, 97.
                    
                        [E]verything I believe I was taught in junior civics during the Great Depression--at School
                            43 in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , with full approval of the school board … . America was an
                            idealistic, pacifistic nation at that time. I was taught in the sixth grade to be proud that
                            we had a standing Army of just over a hundred thousand men and that the generals had nothing
                            to say about what was done in 
                                Washington
                            . I was taught to be proud of that and to pity Europe for having more than a million men and tanks. I simply never unlearned junior
                            civics. I still believe in it. I got a very good grade.
                     Munitions makers stood condemned as "Merchants of Death" in
                    Vonnegut's school days. He learned to cherish the First Amendment and the rest of the Bill
                    of Rights, the Gettysburg Address, and similar writings as holy documents in a fragile social
                    experiment, one increasingly, dangerously under siege in the last half-century "I was
                    raised to be bughouse about the Constitution, and to be very excited about the 
                        United States
                     of America as a Utopia," Vonnegut told another interviewer in 1973, even amid
                    the Watergate trauma. "It still seems utterly workable to me and I keep thinking of ways to
                    fix it, to see what the hell went wrong, to see if we can get the thing to really run
                        right."10
                In his later years Vonnegut's pessimism about the "workability" of our
                    democratic system deepened, along the trajectory of his hero Mark Twain. In Man Without
                        a Country, he concluded an inventory of the depredations of the Bush-Cheney years with the
                    warning "there is not a chance in hell of America becoming humane and reasonable. Because
                    power corrupts us, and absolute power corrupts us absolutely. Human beings are chimpanzees who get
                    crazy drunk on power." Beyond that, he lamented that a century of "transportation
                    whoopee," fossil-fuel addiction, and apathy had doomed the planet to uninhabitability in
                    the not-distant future. But Vonnegut's appreciation for his roots also grew in his last
                    years, as evidenced by his enthusiastic participation in his home city's "Year of
                    Vonnegut" celebration. He sometimes spoke, wistfully, of an alternative past, where he did
                    not have to join the Hoosier diaspora in the boom-and-bust, war-torn dislocations of
                        mid-century.
                        10Standish, "Playboy Interview," in Conversations, 103; Frank McLaughlin, "An Interview with Kurt Vonnegut,
                            Jr.,'" in Conversations, 72.
                    Instead, he might have happily lived out his life in the
                    dense, rich, nurturing folk society of the extended family of his birth, contributing to the
                    cultural fulfillment of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a third-generation architect, or perhaps, as he once quipped to Joseph Heller, as
                    garden editor for the Indianapolis Star. And in a speech at the Atheneum in the
                    fall of 1996 he updated his assessment of the cultural life of his hometown, once so seemingly
                        barren:
                        In those days, and I contrast them very pointedly with these days, an artist of either sex
                            had nothing to do and no place to go in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It was truly Indian-no-place or Nap Town … . (Today) any boy or
                            girl as artistically talented as was my grandfather Bernard, or as scientifically gifted as
                            my brother Bernard, need not leave town to find training, encouragement, and inspiration. It
                            was all here for me 73 years ago, and I have come home specifically to express my
                                gratitude.11
                    
                With his passing this spring, 
                        Indiana
                     has lost its most important ambassador, a homegrown original who showed its most
                    civilized and humane face to the nation and, indeed, to the world. As we reflect upon and celebrate
                    his life, creative and concerned people of all generations should say Hooray for Kurt
                    Vonnegut-Hoosier, planetary citizen, and latter-day "Gentleman from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."
                
                    11Vonnegut, Man Without a Country, 71, 9, 42; Atheneum
                        address, October 10, 1996, reprinted in NUVO, July 310, 1997.
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                History of 
                            Indiana
                         Law By David J. Bodenhamer and Hon. Randall T. Shepard (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 391. Appendix, index. $49.95.)
                On a snowy January day, I read this collection of essays on Indiana law from cover to cover. Written
                    by two judges of the Indiana Court of Appeals, one member of the Indiana Supreme Court staff, one
                    federal district judge, six professors (three of them historians), and six practicing attorneys, the
                    articles provide broad overviews of major topics in legal history (civil liberties, crime, family
                    law, women's rights, race, and courts) as well as some less expected topics such as poor
                    law and education. The volume also includes a section on the 
                        Indiana
                     bench and bar and an appendix entitled "History of Official Indiana
                    Statutes," a gem of an essay by the Indiana Legislative Council never mentioned in the text
                    but very useful to all who cite 
                        Indiana
                     statutes.
                Readers of this journal will have seen the "teaser" article,
                    "Indiana's Legal History," by editors Bodenhamer (a professor of history
                    at IUPUI) and Shepard (Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court) in the December 2005 IMH. That article, like the revised version of it that serves as the book's
                    introduction, deals well, albeit briefly, with the broad strokes of law and economics not addressed
                    elsewhere in the book. The introduction also establishes the theme of "narrative and
                    counter-narrative" in 
                        Indiana
                     legal history, a theme that the editors see as being at times in step with and at other
                    times isolated from national legal culture. Several essays adopt this thematic style; other chapters
                    are narrative; and two, filled with bulleted paragraphs and ubiquitous acronyms, consist largely of
                    policy analysis.
                As to the articles themselves, some pruning is in order. For example, the reader encounters the
                    creation of the Indiana Juvenile Court Act of 1903 in three chapters (pp. 73, 119, 152). The right
                    of paupers to counsel is also addressed three times (pp. 114, 203, 328), as is In re
                        Leach,which admitted women to the bar (pp. 183,
                    281,331). Near the end of the book two subsections, "Admission to Practice Law"
                    (p. 265) and "Admission to the Bar" (p. 279), cover roughly the same ground within
                    twelve pages of one another.
                Admittedly many readers will not read every essay, but if they pick and choose topics, they may miss
                    relevant materials buried in unexpected chapters or expect to find discussions that have been
                    overlooked. James Madison's "Race, Law, and the Burdens of Indiana
                    History" deals with African Americans, but neither here nor in any other chapter do Native
                    Americans appear. Madison covers major pre-Civil War slave/servant cases, including State v. Lasselle, involving the right of a slave woman, Polly, to freedom (p. 42). Yet
                    Polly's circumstances receive fuller treatment in chapters titled "
                        Indiana
                     Judges" (p. 306) and "Political Pragmatism and Common Sense"
                    (p. 326), hardly the places where most readers would look. And while the volume includes an index,
                    neither Polly nor Mary Clark, an African American litigant in another well-known freedom suit (p.
                    42) appears in it (Lasselle is indexed to pp. 42 and 326, but not 306). The indexer has also left
                    out district court (territorial), circuit courts (local and federal), and the U.S. Supreme Court,
                    although an entire chapter treats the "U.S. Supreme Court on Circuit in 
                        Indiana
                    " and another covers 
                        Indiana
                     courts and lawyers.
                The volume contains very few textual errors, but two deserve mention. Alexander Hamilton did not
                    defend John Peter Zenger in 1735 (p. 133), because he wasn't born until 1755. And the
                    Indiana Supreme Court, not that of 
                        Ohio
                    , heard Bayh v. Sonnenburg (p. 208).
                Despite minor flaws, the book also warrants compliments. Every state should have a book like this,
                    and the authors and editors deserve a great deal of credit for adding this one to the four existing
                    volumes in the Law, Society and Politics in the Midwest series. Many of the essay writers have
                    searched extensively for materials, developing their chapters despite the scarcity of modern legal
                    historical research.
                With the exception of David Bodenhamer's works on the grand jury and on antebellum crime,
                    few 
                        Indiana
                     legal historians have attempted such "new legal history," born in the
                    1970s and practiced extensively elsewhere. The authors of similar state studies on the East and West
                    coasts could cite multiple local analyses of order books, probate records, trial court records, and
                    loose papers-- the stuff of modern studies of how law affected everyday people. 
                        Indiana
                    , however, is isolated from this national trend in research methods. The editors and
                    authors of this volume have presented the current state of the field by dint of extensive research
                    in available legislative, appellate, and secondary materials. They have identified and explained the
                        constitutional framework, policy choices, legislative
                    arrangements, and major judicial turning points. It is now up to the next generation of legal
                    historians to dig deeper and discover how Indiana law worked.
                ELIZABETH BRAND MONROE is associate professor of history at IUPUI and is currently writing a
                    biography of William Wirt, the longest-seated attorney general in U.S. history.
            
            
                The Irish Peopling 
                            Indiana
                         By William W Giffin (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006. Pp. ix, 127. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    select bibliography, index. Paperbound, $13.95.)
                When you think of Irish America, 
                        Indiana
                     is not the first place that comes to mind. The vast majority of Irish immigrants chose
                    to settle in the urban centers of the industrial Northeast and Midwest, bypassing largely rural 
                        Indiana
                     for 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Detroit
                    , and St. Paul. William Giffin's book, an updated edition of the essay he wrote
                    for Peopling Indiana: The Ethnic Experience (1996), is an informative history of
                    those Irish who did choose the Hoosier state as their home.
                What is striking about this story is its similarity to the larger narrative of Irish American
                    history. In the colonial period, Irish fur traders wandered the 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     frontier, trading with Native Americans and acting as mediators in conflicts between
                    the Indians and their white neighbors. 
                        Indiana's
                     most notable Irish trader was Dublin-born George Croghan, whose mid-eighteenth-century
                    trade network extended from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to the Great Lakes region.
                    During the period of mass immigration in the nineteenth century, Irish began to settle 
                        Indiana
                     in increasing numbers, attracted by the opportunity for work-first, the building of
                    roads, then canals, and finally the railroad. Like most Irish immigrants at this time (1830-1860),
                    they were unskilled laborers who were in search of work.
                Canal-building fever had gripped the nation in the 1830s and 40s, sparked by the success of 
                        New York's
                    
                    Erie Canal. It was the Irish laborers who
                    built the canals in 
                        New
                        York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    , as well as in 
                        Indiana
                    . Mostly migrant workers who went from job to job, a number of them settled in 
                        Marion County
                    , where they became the founding generation of the 
                        Indiana
                     Irish. By 1860 about 24,495 foreign-born Irish were living in the state, less than two
                    percent of 
                        Indiana's
                     total population. This was also the era when the Catholic church began to establish
                    itself in 
                        Indiana
                    , organizing parishes in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        South Bend
                     to minister to the growing Irish community. As the nation moved into the industrial
                    age, Irish blue-collar factory workers became a common sight in these cities.
                Irish immigrants were also active politically, serving in the General Assembly and in city and town
                    offices. As was true elsewhere, they supported the Democratic party. Irish Hoosiers fought in the
                    Civil War alongside other Irish regiments from the Northern states. Like other Irish they founded
                    their own ethnic organizations such as the Ancient Order of Hibernians. Ardent nationalists, they
                    supported the cause of Irish independence throughout the nineteenth century, contributing thousands
                    of dollars toward this effort.
                In the twentieth century, especially after the Second World War, Indiana's Irish began to
                    move up economically. They became more American than Irish, loyal patriots as well as proud
                    Catholics. Their Irish identity began to fade as they grew further removed from 
                        Ireland
                     and their immigrant roots. Then, in the late 1960s, an ethnic revival captured the
                    imagination of millions of Americans. Among the Irish, music and dance enjoyed a revival as city
                    after city in 
                        Indiana
                     and elsewhere sponsored heritage festivals. Being Irish was "in"
                    among a new generation of American-born Hoosiers who claimed Irish ancestry. By 1990 they numbered
                    almost one million, or about 18 percent of the state's population. Giffin has added a
                    discussion of this cultural awakening to his original essay. A number of illustrations and a useful
                    index further enhance the value of this new edition.
                JAY P. DOLAN is history at the professor emeritus of University of Notre Dame.
            
            
                Den of Misery 
                            Indiana's
                         Civil War Prison By James R. Hall (
                        Gretna
                    , 
                        La.
                    : Pelican Publishing Company, 2006. Pp. 159. Photographs, appendix, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $25.00.)
                In 1859, the State Board of Agriculture ordered the construction of a state fairground on thirty-six
                    acres of land on the north edge of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Barns and sheds would hold the livestock, and a few administrative buildings were
                    erected. In April 1861, this site became Camp Morton, where thousands of new volunteers, answering
                    President Lincoln's call to arms, camped and drilled.
                Not until early 1862, after the fall of Forts Henry and Donalson in 
                        Tennessee
                    , did Camp Morton become the repository of more than 3,000 Confederate prisoners of war.
                    In Den ofMisery, James R. Hall reminds us that
                    during the Civil War, the North was as capable of inflicting degradation and humiliation on its
                    captive combatants in places like Camp Morton, as was the South at sites such as 
                        Andersonville
                    .
                The author is a career journalist and freelance writer, interested primarily in resurrecting the
                    controversy surrounding wartime conditions at Camp Morton. He dismisses as "a scholarly
                    undertaking … no more, no less," the 1940 Camp Morton,
                    1861-1865, written by 
                        Indianapolis
                     school teachers Hattie Lou Winslow and Joseph R. H. Moore.
                I would have preferred Hall to have used the eight-volume document collection devoted to prisoner of
                    war camps--The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union
                        and Confederate Armies (1894-1899)--together with other primary sources available at the
                    Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana State Library, in order to present a more balanced
                    assessment of the facts underlying the controversy.
                Hall does make extensive use of the testimony of Dr. John A. Wyeth, a survivor of Camp Morton, who
                    published an article in the April 1891 issue of Century Monthly Magazine,
                    recalling the dreadful conditions and treatment meted out to inmates. Wyeth was serving in the 4th
                    Alabama Cavalry when he was taken prisoner by Union troops in October 1863, and was not released
                    until February 1865. Hall neatly summarizes Wyeth's allegations as "a firsthand
                    and often shocking and explicit account of starvation, exposure to extreme cold and heat, beatings
                    by prison guards, and even cold-blooded murder of innocent prisoners within the confines of this
                    Northern prison complex" (p. 17). In a September 1891 article in Century
                        Monthly, officials and members of the Indiana Grand Army of the Republic disputed these
                    charges, but Hall dismisses the defense as "generally sarcastic and condescending, often
                    downright arrogant" (p. 66), and maintains that since 1891 no one has taken
                    Wyeth's claims seriously. Few historians would dispute that conditions at Camp Morton grew
                    progressively worse from late 1863 on, due in large part to the prison's coming under the
                    jurisdiction of the federal Commissary General of Prisons, which tightened regulations and decreased
                    provisions in retaliation for cruel treatment of Union troops at 
                        Andersonville
                     and elsewhere in the South.
                When it comes to evaluating the charges of Wyeth and other prisoners, however, one must also
                    acknowledge that officials at Camp Morton, as well as federal inspectors, apparently tried to make
                    conditions tolerable. Reports by honorable men from both the Confederacy and the Union contain
                    conflicting evidence of how the camp was run and of how much the inmates suffered.
                Hall provides a substantial service to Civil War historians by listing in an appendix all of the
                    Confederates whodied at Camp Morton. Official figures put their
                    number at 1,763 out of the entire prison population of 12,082. They were eventually laid to rest in
                    a special section of Crown Hill Cemetery in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The photographs used in the book, some taken by the author, add immediacy to this
                    sorry story.
                JAMES J. BARNES is professor emeritus of history at Wabash College, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . He and his wife, Patience, have recently published a three-volume collection of
                    documents titled The Civil War through British Eyes (2003-2005).
            
            
                August Willich's Gallant Dutchmen Civil War Letters from the 32nd Indiana
                        Infantry Translated and edited by Joseph R. Reinhart (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 262. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic
                    essay, index. $35.00.)
                Joseph Reinhart has done an impressive job of translating, editing, and annotating sixty letters
                    written by members of the 32nd Indiana Infantry, the state's "only German
                    regiment" (p. 2) in the Civil War. Part of the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the 32nd fought at Rowlett's Station in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Shiloh, Stones River, and
                        Missionary Ridge in 
                        Tennessee
                    ; and 
                        Chickamauga
                     in 
                        Georgia
                    . Reinhart discovered these letters, most of them written between August 1861 and
                    December 1863, in the German-language newspapers the 
                            Louisville
                         Anzeiger, the 
                            Cincinnati
                         Volksfreund, and the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Freie Presse von 
                            Indiana
                        . Reinhart also includes notices by the editors of the newspapers; chapter
                    introductions with maps and photographs; an epilogue summarizing the life and death of the officers
                    following the war; appendices on the "Original Officers and Color Sergeants"; a
                    descriptive history of the 32nd Indiana Monument; a list of books containing Civil War letters and
                    diaries by "Native Germans"; and a bibliographic essay. In his chapter
                    introductions and fifty-two pages of detailed notes, Reinhart provides information on battles,
                    skirmishes, and marches; qualifies and corrects accounts of the numbers killed and injured on both
                    sides; and gives an ongoing overview of the war as seen from the perspective of the men of the 32nd.
                The most interesting letters, seventeen in all, were written by an infantryman who called himself
                    "Artaxerxes." Highly literate, poetic in his description of landscapes,
                    self-possessed, and sometimes speaking with a sarcastic edge, this unidentified author from 
                        Cincinnati
                     emerges as an authoritative voice. Another dozen letters were written by Carl Schmitt
                    of 
                        Evansville
                    , a native of Bavaria who had fought in 
                        Germany
                     during the revolutionary uprisings of1848-1849 under Colonel August Willich, the well-respected
                    Prussian-born organizer of the regiment. One of the motifs in the letters is the pride taken by the
                    officers and infantrymen in their colonel's leadership qualities and in his paternalistic
                    affection for them. The soldiers also express ethnic pride in their courage and their important
                    contributions to the Union cause. Aware that nativists questioned their patriotism as
                    "foreigners," the German Americans had something to prove, and took defiant
                    satisfaction in proclaiming it in print.
                As complement and contrast to the letters in the Reinhart collection, where literate, liberal, and
                    freedom-loving Forty-eighters speak, anyone interested in 
                        Indiana
                     Germans should also read A Lost American Dream: Civil War Letters
                        (1862-63) of Immigrant Theodore Heinrich Brandes in Historical Contexts (2005). Brandes was
                    a poor, barely literate Catholic day laborer who came from a farm near Munster to 
                        Oldenburg
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , where an aunt and uncle lived. He married an 
                        Oldenburg
                     woman, and moved with his family to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Brandes, who had served two years of military service in 
                        Germany
                    , became a paid
                    voluntary substitute for a draftee twenty years his junior, in Company D of the 83rd Volunteer
                    Infantry Regiment of 
                        Indiana
                    . His letters tell a story of hardship and misery, of having to drink water that he says
                    not even his pigs would drink. He died in the summer of 1863, weeks before he was to be discharged,
                    of diarrhea, lung infection, and swollen feet. His letters reveal no devotion to freedom, great
                    leaders, moral principle, or ethnic pride. In different ways, Antaxerxes and Brandes are both part
                    of, and help to tell, the German American story.
                NORBERT KRAPF, who lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is emeritus professor of English at Long Island University. His books include Finding the Grain (1996), a collection of pioneer German journals and letters from 
                        Dubois County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    ; The Country I Come From (2002), nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in
                    Poetry; and Invisible Presence (2006), a collaboration with 
                        Indiana
                     photographer Darryl Jones.
            
            
                These Men Were Heroes Once The Sixty-Ninth Indiana Volunteer Infantry By Carolyn
                    S. Bridge (
                        West Lafayette
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Twin Publications, 2005. Pp. xvi, 414. Maps, biographies, rosters, index, CD of
                    regimental poetry and song. $24.95.)
                 It is appropriate that Carolyn S. Bridge is listed as compiler rather than editor of this volume on
                    the 69th Indiana Volunteer Infantry. She provides only five pages of preface and introduction and
                    offers occasionalfootnotes and headnotes. The book consists of a
                    wide variety of documents including an 1891 record of the regiment's activities;
                    reminiscences told at reunions and published in the proceedings; poetry read at reunions; letters
                    sent to family and to newspapers; soldier biographies; a bibliography, timeline, and map; company
                    rosters; and a ten-minute compact disk of regimental poetry and song. Soldiers'
                    reminiscences and letters occupy about half of the volume's four hundred pages, but the
                    texts have not benefited from many editorial emendations. Bridge composed the brief biographies of
                    the infantrymen, but they are nowhere summarized into a collective biography that would offer social
                    statistics about the regiment. In short, what this project lacks is editorial and scholarly
                    ambition, beyond the energy required to compile materials and write up facts. Instead, it remains
                    for the reader to put together a comprehensive understanding of the regiment's
                    accomplishments, their larger significance, and their connection to existing scholarship. Indeed,
                    this volume is more a regimental scrapbook than a regimental history. However, it can be a useful
                    and interesting scrapbook.
                The first document is Lt. Col. Oran Perry's account of the events of August 1862, describing
                    how a thousand men were mustered into service in the regiment, a "big, unwieldy thing,
                    good-natured, but awkward and dangerous" (p. 3). The first battle, at 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in late August, came after very little training and was "bloody, useless,
                    disastrous," according to Perry (p. 5). About half of the regiment was taken prisoner.
                    After troops were paroled and the regiment was reorganized, they boarded ship and took the Yazoo River to Chickasaw Bluffs, where they met
                    their second defeat in January 1863, followed by a victory at Arkansas Post. They were engaged in
                    the Battle of Vicksburg that May, and afterwards they laid siege to 
                        Jackson
                    , 
                        Mississippi
                    . By March 1864, the regiment was at Matagorda Island, 
                        Texas
                    , where twenty-three men were drowned. In late April 1864, they took part in the
                        Red River campaign, and for the rest of
                    the year they saw duty at 
                        Morganza
                    , 
                        Louisiana
                    . The regiment finished its service in 
                        Florida
                     and 
                        Alabama
                    , where it captured Fort Blakely in April 1865. By the time the 69th was finished with
                    war, 331 of its members had perished, 80 of them killed in combat and 251 dead because of disease,
                    wounds, drowning, and accidents.
                The remaining documents in the volume elaborate on those events and on the inactivity that
                    characterized the times in between. These include Pvt. Alonzo Good's memoir of his first
                    thirty days in uniform; Sgt. Charles Simon's account of the battle of Richmond;
                    Perry's vivid, albeit misdated, narrative of "A Dismal Night in Dixie";
                    Pvt. John Kitselman's story of the boat Opossum; Capt. Joseph
                    Jackson's letter telling a mother of her son's death; Lt. Cordon Smith's
                    details of the tragic drowning at Matagorda; Capt. John Macy's reminiscence of the
                    capture of Fort Blakely; and Perry's touching portrait of Solomon Harter, "The
                    Sergeant of Company F."
                The full compilation of soldier data and military material in this volume can be instructive for
                    genealogists, 
                        Indiana
                     historians, and specialists on the war in the trans-Mississippi West, but finally one
                    wonders if those audiences could still have been served if this project had been put up as a web
                    site in the first place. Then millions would have access to the words written by the men of the
                    69th, from Pvt. T. P. Hollingsworth's remark that it was "no harm to confiscate a
                    hog" belonging to a Southerner (p. 219) to the commander's conclusion that his
                    regiment "marched away too gaily to the war" (p. 215).
                MICHAEL BARTON, Pennsylvania State University at Harrisburg, is the co-editor, with Larry M.
                    Logue, of The Civil War Soldier: A Historical Reader (2002) and, also with Logue,
                    of The Civil War Veteran: A Historical Reader (2007). 
            
            
                Mac's Boys Branch McCracken and the Legendary 1953 Hurryin'
                        Hoosiers By Jason Hiner (
                        Bloomington
                    : 
                        Indiana
                     University Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 345. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
                My guess is that Jason Hiner is too young to have been around for Indiana University's
                    1952-53 season--season, notjust the NCAA championship that crowned it. During that
                    year so many Hoosier frustrations were shed, replaced by joyful firsts--IU's first
                    100-point game, first outright Big Ten championship, first taste of No. 1 national ranking. I am old
                    enough to have made that joyride, not with a reporter's shackles but with the unrestricted
                    glee of a fan. As a senior at Huntington High School, late on a midweek March night with static
                    complicating the in-and-out faintness of the only attainable radio signal, I suffered through the
                    agonizing final seconds of the NCAA championship game: IU up 69-68, 
                        Kansas
                     with the ball, "shot from the corner-r-r at the
                    buzzer-r-r…"
                In Mac's Boys: Branch McCracken and the Legendary 1953 Hurryin'
                        Hoosiers, Hiner captures the unique quality of IU fans' year-their fatalistic
                    resignation throughout, conditioned by past second places and near-misses; their undying
                    hopes--"wouldn't it be fantastic if"? Both extremes of pessimism and
                    optimism collided for so many Hoosiers while that game-determining shot hung in the air--a shot they
                    couldn't see, because there was no TV Everything hung
                    on what that radio voice would say, after a silence that seemed like weeks.
                My read-through of "Mac's Boys" was as swift as a '53 fast break.
                    I quibbled with Hiner at times: "I don't need all this play-by-play; I
                    don't care who scored to make it 6-4 in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     game." I winced at some of the hyperbole: Did this team's feats
                    really cleanse college basketball of the stains of the 1950s gambling scandals? But as I was
                    quibbling a bit and wincing a little, I was racing through the pages to get to the delicacies: the
                    91-79 jinx-ending blowout at 
                        Illinois
                    , clinching IU and McCracken's first clear-cut Big Ten championship; the Big
                    Ten-record 113-78 score against the perfect foil, Purdue; the revenge regional romp over 
                        Notre Dame
                     that assured a Final Four trip.
                And that volatile championship game--three technical fouls against the Hoosiers, none against their
                    excitable coach, whose fuse was tested by an official scorebook change that kept 
                        Kansas
                     star B. H. Born in the game after the scorer had buzzed him out with five fouls.
                    Everything led up to that final 
                        Kansas
                     shot, against an IU team that had lost only three times all year, always on last-second
                    shots.
                This one missed, to a state-spanning feeling of deliverance.
                IU had earned a previous NCAA basketball championship in 1940. But the 1953 victory came after the
                    tournament had matured into national attention and just as television was dawning. Hiner captures
                    the significance of the marriage of IU basketball and television, which would spread a little
                    Hoosier heaven around on many a winter night to come.
                Hiner's research is impressive. He culls from at least ten books, surely a hundred
                    contemporary newspaper accounts, and a good dozen radio and TV recordings. That is how he beat the
                    handicap of setting out on his task too late to talk to key people--McCracken and his partner wife,
                    Mary Jo; scoring center Don Schlundt; the team's unsung great player, Dick Farley; and
                    several others. He used printed and recorded works that brought in the McCrackens' voices.
                    And he used others' testimony to show how revolutionary was Schlundt's scoring,
                    and how crucial was Farley's remarkable defensive work against opponents of all heights.
                Schlundt's fellow All-American, guard Bobby Leonard, is still around, to Hiner's
                    great benefit, because no one was more forthcoming. Leonard was maybe even more of a fan favorite
                    than Schlundt: he played with a sense of imminent explosion, of fire, of determination, of being the
                    team's rogue. Hiner confirms the last on page 149: "When McCracken laid down the
                    ground rules at the first practice of the 1952-53 season, he placed special emphasis on his players
                    avoiding three things: smoking, drinking and gambling … . 'I think everybody
                    knew that, for Bobby, those were three of his favorite occupations,' said (teammate) Jim
                    Schooley."
                
                So, Bobby Leonard was a rascal, but a great player and leader. A Hoosier all-timer-as was this team.
                BOB HAMMEL is the retired sports edi- tor of the 
                            Bloomington
                         Herald Times. Named 
                        Indiana
                     Sportswriter of the Year sixteen times during his thirty years in 
                        Bloomington
                    , he has also won numerous national awards for his sports writing.
            
            
                To Bear Any Burden A Hoosier Green Beret's Letters from 
                            Vietnam
                         By Daniel FitzGibbon (
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society Press, 2005. Pp. xxv, 144. Photographs, maps. $19.95.)
                Personal letters written by American soldiers from combat areas of operation can be insightful
                    artifacts. While veterans' war stories, told years after the event, can be warped by tricks
                    of time and memory, letters often offer more immediate and honest assessments. Daniel H.
                    FitzGibbon's correspondence from 
                        Vietnam
                     to his parents in 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , lends particular insights into a war still intensely debated today.
                Young FitzGibbon was not the average soldier in Southeast Asia, having graduated from West Point and
                    serving as an officer in 
                        Vietnam
                    . His letters reveal the thoughts and feelings of a more "elite" group
                    of servicemen. Given his background, it is perhaps not surprising that FitzGibbon never wavered in
                    his support for the war. However, his letters do indicate a growing concern with the ways in which
                    higher-ups were conducting the fighting. In one letter written in mid-1968, he frankly noted,
                    "We've had trouble getting contact with [the enemy] under favorable circumstances
                    although we're pushing quite a bit--this is one of the reasons I think this war will never
                    end in our favor" (p. 86). This and other negative observations by the young Hoosier
                    regarding the U.S.'s conduct of the war would prove prophetic, and it is interesting to see
                    how his sense of the war's imminent failure grows.
                FitzGibbon's letters also offer a sense of the day-to-day life of a low-level officer
                    leading men directly into combat. After one of his first combat experiences, he writes his parents
                    that he was "definitely excited and … my heart was beating swiftly."
                    These are not always easy letters to read. In the same correspondence he explains that
                    "[o]ne does not go through combat and experience what I have experienced without being
                    affected in some manner. I have come to notice a certain smell in the air when someone is killed on
                    an operation" (p. 65).
                Even the seemingly mundane events of FitzGibbon's time in 
                        Vietnam
                     often come across as interest-ing. In one letter,
                    for example, he writes that "with the rainy night, the hammock helped a little, although
                    even with a poncho over head the soaking rain made it difficult to sleep" (p. 53). Overall,
                    these letters represent an interesting set of historical artifacts for anyone wishing to get a sense
                    of a young officer's trials and tribulations in 
                        Vietnam
                    . It would be of interest to read FitzGibbon's letters alongside those of
                    nonofficer-level draftees who experienced combat--the kind that appear, for example, in Dear America: Letters Home From 
                            Vietnam
                        . Read together, they would reveal a wide spectrum of experiences, thoughts,
                    and feelings about a war that does not seem to go away.
                RANDY MILLS is a professor of the social sciences at Oakland City University, 
                        Oakland City
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and author of the just-released Troubled Hero: A Medal of Honor, 
                            Vietnam
                         and the War at Home (2007).
            
            
                In This Remote Country French Colonial Culture in the Anglo-American Imagination,
                        1780-1860 By Edward Watts (
                        Chapel
                        Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. ix, 275. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $59.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
                In this intriguing book, Edward Watts explores how Americans in the first half of the nineteenth
                    century constructed and used the history of French colonialism in North America. That history, Watts
                    persuasively argues, became a tool in debates about "what type of nation the 
                        United States
                     would become," with one model--the destructive and racist British empire--set
                    against its kinder, gentler French counterpart. Thus, "even as the French themselves were erased" from the North American continent, "their memory
                    retained a powerful presence in conversations the nation had about itself" (pp. 11, 13).
                Watts has uncovered a remarkable array of nineteenth-century sources treating the history of French
                    colonialism in just this way. The French show up in discussions of Indian policy, interracial
                    marriage, middle-class masculinity, and the politics of westward expansion, and Watts treats these
                    topics in some detail. Watts also pays attention to the differences between the interpretations
                    advanced by western and eastern intellectuals and politicians. Western models, he argues, tended to
                    include the French as part of the story, embracing their adaptation to the wilderness and their
                    ability to build relationships with the region's Indians. Less locally-driven histories,
                    however, tended to treat the French as backward, if sympathetic, failures.
                Watts also considers the manner in which Americans used the Frenchin their efforts to negotiate the shifting currents of middle- and upper-class masculinity.
                    Nowhere is this analysis more successful than in his discussion of Francis Parkman's
                    ambivalent analysis of the French and the West they once controlled. Watts demonstrates that
                    Parkman's dismissive and highly critical reading of French colonial history in his
                    seven-volume 
                            France
                         and 
                            England
                         in North America contrasts with an earlier, more admiring portrait in The Oregon Trail.
                Watts offers an especially rich analysis of the role of the French in national debates about the
                    nature of the white, patriarchal family. Proponents of strict, white, patriarchal social structures
                    considered the French and their Metis children "monstrous exceptions" to the
                    desired norm, while opponents of this stifling homogeneity noted the humanity and hope offered by
                    the alternative French society (chapter 4).
                Whether through "idealization" or "debasement," then,
                    nineteenth-century writers marginalized the actual French by turning them into caricatures to serve
                    political ends. Perceptive of this historical trend, Watts seems less aware of his own idealization
                    of the French colonial past. For Watts, French habitants in the 
                        Illinois
                     country lived largely free of greed, eschewing the grasping capitalism of British
                    America in favor of a "neighborly, egalitarian, and village-based" way of life (p.
                    57). Amplifying Carl Ekberg's optimistic interpretation of 
                        Illinois
                     society, Watts insists that "the ethos of inclusion and egalitarian
                    cooperation [was] practiced by the habitants" (p. 89). A brief look into 
                        Louisiana's
                     court records might temper this hopeful portrayal of French social relations.
                In the area of Indian relations, Watts argues that the Illinois French "rarely were in
                    conflict with their Indian neighbors," living instead in the progressive bliss of metissage (p. 58). 
                        Illinois
                     inhabitants' leading role in the Fox Wars or their active participation in
                    French efforts to destroy the Chickasaws--bloody conflicts that together lasted half a
                    century--remain unexplained, as does 
                        Illinois
                    ' important place in the Indian slave trade to 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . Perhaps nowhere is Watts' s rosy view of French colonialism more apparent
                    than in his discussion of French slavery. Eighteenth-century 
                        Illinois
                     had a per capita slave population that rivaled many counties in contemporary 
                        Virginia
                    , but Watts still makes the incredible claim that "most habitants had little or
                    no contact with forced labor" (p. 60). In his view, French slavery, governed by the
                    "Code Noire" [sic], was designed not to extract a maximum of profitable labor, but
                    to move slaves toward emancipation and racial integration. Even after omitting lower 
                        Louisiana
                     from his study, this argument is hardly persuasive. To be fair, this is not a book
                    about actual French colonial history. But Watts loses an opportunity to explorethe creative elisions and even outright fabrications of this
                    nineteenth-century historiography because he may not recognize them as such. Readers would do well
                    to remember that the French write "empire" in the same way as their neighbors
                    across the channel.
                BRETT RUSHFORTH is assistant professor of history at Brigham Young University, 
                        Provo
                    , 
                        Utah
                    . His forthcoming book is Savage Bonds: Indigenous and Atlantic Slaveries
                        in New France.
            
            
                City of American Dreams A History of Home Ownership and Housing Reform in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1871-1919 By Margaret Garb (
                        Chicago
                    : University of Chicago Press, 2005. Pp. xv, 261. Maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $40.00.)
                Home ownership was a common trait among Chicagoans well before the great fire of 1871, according to
                    Margaret Garb. In fact, she writes, it served as a marker distinguishing the city's middle
                    class from the working class. The surprising twist is that working-class Chicagoans--through
                    extended family, neighborhood networks, and other inventive means--scraped together down payments
                    with greater urgency than did the city's middle-class residents. Houses were so basic in
                    construction (often without utilities) that they offered a sounder financial investment for wage
                    laborers (both skilled and unskilled) than they did for the middle class who preferred apartments or
                    long-term leases on single-family homes, while investing their surplus dollars in higher-earning
                    business ventures.
                This ownership pattern continued after the 
                        Chicago
                     fire, although, as the author demonstrates in her opening vignette, attempts by the
                    city council to regulate fireproof building materials such as brick and stone threatened to curtail
                    affordable housing for the working class. Workers protests against these new construction codes
                    devolved at times into physical confrontations, heralding an era of increased class strife. The
                    working class's capacity to purchase their own residences eroded during the 1880s as a
                    combination of technological improvements, the mortgage market, and stricter housing codes limited
                    their purchasing power. Water and sewer hookups, for example, entailed installation assessments and
                    ultimately raised property taxes. The growing involvement of financial institutions in the
                    residential mortgage market formalized a lending process that had been previously flexible and
                    creative. As housing prices climbed, the collateral once used by young couples to buy their firsthomes (reputation and family standing) would not satisfy
                    flinty-eyed bankers.
                Behind the toughening of indoor plumbing standards stood a variety of reformers whose investigations
                    into lower-class life created a drumbeat of criticism over unhealthy conditions in neighborhoods
                    that still relied upon corner pumps and backyard privies. In calling for improvements that might
                    alleviate the scourges of typhoid, cholera, diphtheria, and smallpox--clearly legitimate
                    considerations--social workers pressed city agencies to become, in essence, housing police whose
                    enforcement of tightened codes pushed the price of new housing beyond the reach of average workers.
                    At the same time, the growing value of residential housing during the late 1880s lured middle-class
                    buyers into this market as they envisioned owning their own piece of the "American
                    Dream." Developers, most notably Samuel E. Gross, used the art of advertising to promote
                    this investment in a family's financial future. Finally, in the depths of the catastrophic
                    1890s depression, these builders switched to upscale construction, sealing the fate of affordable
                    housing for 
                        Chicago's
                     working class. This emblem of the American Dream, once the proud possession of ordinary
                    folk, became, in the last years of the nineteenth century, a fading glimmer. Tenements and
                    subdivided single-family residences would suffice in the future, just as new waves of immigrants
                    flooded the city. In the next century, reformers would once again raise their voices against
                    tenement life, demanding that the city rid itself of another generation of inadequate housing.
                The author, a historian at Washington University St. Louis, offers a sound study based on a
                    conscientious examination of the primary sources. It is written in a scholarly mode, tainted on
                    occasion by repetition. Several of the photographs offer revealing glimpses into the world of
                    working-class 
                        Chicago
                    . The African American experience is touched upon briefly at the conclusion of each
                    chapter and then developed at greater length at the end of the book, although this last unit has a
                    curious tone, reading more like a community history than the type of tightly woven analysis typical
                    of the earlier chapters.
                THOMAS J. JABLONSKY is Harry G. John Professor of Urban Studies and director of the Institute
                    for Urban Life at Marquette University, 
                        Milwaukee
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He is the author of Pride in the Jungle: Community and Everyday Life in
                        Back of the Yards 
                            Chicago
                         (1993).
            
            
            
                
                            Chicago's
                         Progressive Alliance Labor and the Bid for Public Streetcars By Georg
                    Leidenberger (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern Illinois University Press, 2006. Pp. viii, 202. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    select bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                This book joins a number of other works that have placed the "labor question" at
                    the center of Progressive Era politics. Georg Leidenberger argues that the ability of labor unions
                    to connect their interests to a civic or public interest explains how they became, in a
                    "progressive moment," the lightning rod for a movement for municipal ownership and
                    control of the 
                        Chicago
                     transit system.
                 Workplace and community-wide strategies that stretched the structural limits of the American
                    Federation of Labor created a style of unionism capable of altering the landscape of power in 
                        Chicago
                    . Unions of the teamsters and the teachers were the base for this transformation.
                    Teamsters' use of the sympathy strike--which included for example, the refusal to deliver
                    goods to department stores when their women workers went on strike--was the vehicle for building a
                    broadly based movement and for helping to make 
                        Chicago
                     one of the most highly unionized cities in the country at the time. The teachers union
                    recognized the need to engage in coalition-building and politics for their workplace demands, but
                    also connected effectively with middle-class reformers. 
                These two unions, Leidenberger argues, brought to the fore an insurgent "metropolitan
                    unionism" in the wake of the city's 1903 streetcar strike. Coalition building and
                    articulation of the public interest in a safe, worker-controlled workplace helped to bring victory
                    in that strike, which involved a significant amount of support for the strikers from the
                    city's middle-class residents. Unions came out of the strike with the ability to articulate
                    a "public interest" agenda that centered on municipal ownership and management of
                    the transit system. Mobilizing in the community and through their workplaces (teachers, for example,
                    sent home petitions with school children), workers led the effort that brought reform mayor William
                    Dunne to political leadership in the city.
                Rather than seeing middle-class reformers at the center of the Progressive Era, Leidenberger insists
                    that it was the working class that articulated the need for radical reforms. Middle-class allies
                    were not as yet wedded to the notion of workers as pawns of graft and boss control, but rather
                    viewed them as the potential base for a vibrant democratic agenda. The working- and middle-class
                    coalition offered public control of commodities such as streetcar service as its carefully
                    articulated solution to private greed--notions about functionalist politics and professional
                    efficiency and distance were not as yet operative
                
                Leidenberger convincingly argues that these more familiar definitions came to define the 
                        Chicago
                     school of progressivism only after a business coalition was able to defeat the base of
                    labor power. This pro-business agenda was part of a national effort that sought to stanch the growth
                    of labor power, one city at a time, through community networks. Spatial power, exemplified by the
                    teamsters' control of the distribution network, had led to political power, and employers
                    sought to reverse that advantage by eliminating the sympathy strike. In doing so, they also brought
                    about a public relations campaign more sophisticated than the countersubversive one developed to
                    squelch the eight-hour movement after the Haymarket riot fifteen years earlier. This campaign sought
                    to label labor unions as antithetical to the public interest and began to break down the alliances
                    between labor and middle-class reformers, although the full story of how this happened needs more
                    development than Leidenberg has given it. On the heels of the streetcar strike, the municipal
                    ownership campaign faltered and then failed. "Good government" functionalist views
                    of regulation, led by middle-class reform organizations, ended the public transit campaign and
                    superceded the labor-centered coalition.
                Leidenberg's book is an important contribution to labor history as well as to the history of
                    twentieth-century reform. His conclusion--that historians' definitions of Progressive Era
                    reform do not consider the rise and defeat of alternative "progressive moments"
                    shaped by labor insurgencies and counterinsurgencies--provokes a host of questions for future
                    researchers.
                ROSEMARY FEURER is associate professor of history at Northern Illinois Uni- versity, 
                        DeKalb
                    , and author of Radical Unionism in the Midwest, 1900-1950
                (2006).
            
            
                Daughters of the Union Northern Women Fight the Civil War By Nina Silber (
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Mass.
                    : Harvard University Press, 2005. Pp. 332. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $29.95).
                There has been a recent flourishing of books on women's experiences in the U.S. Civil War.
                    Nurses' letters have appeared, the work of female spies has been recounted, and historians
                    have even recovered women's experiences on the battlefield. As Nina Silber notes in Daughters of the Union, Confederate women's work has long been more
                    famous than that of their Unionist counterparts, a bias that started during the war itself. But Northern women are now getting their due, in books like Jeannie
                    Attie's Patriotic Toil (1998), Judith Ann Giesberg's Civil War Sisterhood (2000), and Elizabeth Leonard's Yankee
                        Women (1994).
                Silber pulls much of this history together in one highly readable volume. Because of its breadth,
                    hers is probably the single best book for anyone seeking to understand Northern women's war
                    experiences. Silber discusses new forms of female employment, as well as how women managed homes and
                    businesses in men's absence. She traces women's tentative entry into electoral
                    politics as well as their volunteer war work, fundraising, and humanitarian aid. A chapter on
                    "Wartime Emancipation" describes some of the ways in which freedom for African
                    American women changed the war effort, especially for women in the antislavery cause.
                Silber also draws on a rich array of primary sources written by ordinary women on the homefront. Many
                    offer poignant commentary on the hardships of war, as well as on women's interest in
                    national events and fervent hopes for victory. Sources from working-class and African American women
                    are not as well represented as those from more prosperous Northerners, but Silber pays welcome
                    attention to Southern women as they were reincorporated into the Union, and to the economic and
                    racial inequalities that typified both regions. In her chapter on nursing, for example, she notes
                    that most black women working in Union hospitals were classified as "cooks and
                    laundresses" and paid far less than white "nurses," though both groups
                    did similar work.
                While many authors emphasize the war's potential to liberate women, Silber is pessimistic.
                    She notes that Northern women were subjected to intense criticism for their supposed lack of
                    patriotic zeal, and she finds a simultaneous public debate over women's victimization.
                    Sometimes the two intertwined, as when Harper's Weekly contrasted the
                    impoverished "soldier's wife" with the "contractor's
                    wife" who ignored calls for patriotic sacrifice and went shopping with the profits of her
                    husband's government contracts (p. 73). Silber's outlook is perhaps overly gloomy,
                    especially in the final chapter, when she offers Mary Surratt--hanged for her role in
                    Lincoln's assassination--as a key example of how "the federal government had
                    raised the bar in terms of expecting obedience and allegiance from its female citizens" (p.
                    261). But she makes a valid point when she says that women learned that "the war, and their
                    government, demanded their allegiance more than it encouraged their critical interaction"
                    (p. 11).
                Daughters of the Union raises important questions about women's changing
                    relationship to government and citizenship in the nineteenth century. Along the way, the author
                    offers fascinating glimpses into the wartime experiences of
                    Northern women, in all their hardships, griefs, hopes, and triumphs.
                REBECCA EDWARDS teaches history at Vassar College in 
                        Poughkeepsie
                    , 
                        New York
                    . She recently published New Spirits: Americans in the Gilded Age,
                        1865-1905 (2005).
            
            
                Danger on the Doorstep Anti-Catholicism and American Print Culture in the Progressive
                        Era By Justin Nordstrom (
                        Notre Dame
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Notre Dame University Press, 2006. Pp. ix, 296. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $30.00.)
                Justin Nordstrom's analysis of anti-Catholic popular publications during the Progressive Era
                    views this expression of nativism as a part of the rural-urban conflict that punctuated the period.
                    The city, and Catholics who resided there, represented strange peoples and customs, sexual
                    licentiousness, and lack of simplicity. Nativists grafted their movement onto progressivism and,
                    working on the principle of guilt by association, sought to make Catholics scapegoats for modernity.
                    In the South, where Catholics were rare, as they were in most rural areas, such anti-Catholicism was
                    particularly intense.
                Anti-Catholicism was an ultra-nationalist variation on the American propensity to believe in
                    conspiracy theories. Most threatening to this frame of mind was the idea that Catholics vested
                    ultimate authority in a hierarchy whose epicenter lay abroad. American distrust of centralized power
                    in any form, whether governmental or religious, had deep roots in the nation's history,
                    dating back to the colonial period. Protestants were troubled by the doctrine of papal
                    infallibility, which seemed undemocratic. Yet most charges were not original, nor were they specific
                    to North America or limited to the time. They were as old as the Protestant Reformation--and they
                    remain today, separating Protestantism and Catholicism.
                Believing, or even reading, these extremist periodicals presupposes a degree of gullibility. The
                    writers charged that Catholics wanted to overthrow the government, make America subservient to the
                    Pope, abolish freedom of worship, suppress dissent, and control the world. Priests and nuns had
                    illicit sex, murdered the offspring, and buried them beneath convents. Priests exploited the
                    confessional to manipulate women for sex. The most sensational and titillating publications were
                    stories of the captivity, kidnapping, and sexual abuse of women and children, described in graphic,
                    almost pornographic, detail.
                
                The nativists had no plan of action, no solution to the Catholic menace. They viewed the
                    dissemination of information as an end in itself. Although they might have raised the decibel level
                    of hatred, they appealed largely to those who already harbored anti-Catholic beliefs. Nor did their
                    anti-nativist opponents convert many bigots. Each side, in effect, was preaching to the choir.
                Nordstrom's study provides a window for understanding an important, long-lived
                    spiritual/militaristic metaphor through its manifestation in a specific context. Like most good
                    monographs, it seeks to explore the macrocosm through a microcosm and to provide a building block
                    for further studies. The book is thought-provoking and diligently researched in primary sources.
                Although useful to specialists, the book is narrowly conceived, especially chronologically, a fact
                    that will limit its audience. The text contains little that is original, offering instead a parade
                    of academic experts more appropriate for footnotes. The author's style is flawed by jargon
                    and overuse of certain words and phrases, the most ubiquitious of which is
                    "trope."
                Some of Nordstrom's conclusions are arguable, such as his implication that nativism declined
                    with World War I and the extinction of certain journals. In fact, the anti-Catholic prejudice of the
                    Progressive Era might have changed form, but it actually grew. The influence of the Ku Klux Klan in
                    the 1920s, the attacks on Catholic presidential candidate Al Smith in 1928, and the immigration laws
                    of the 1920s designed to bar Catholics, among others, are cases in point. Dangers on
                        the Doorstep is useful, within limits.
                GLEN JEANSONNE is professor of history at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and the author
                    of Gerald L. K. Smith: Minister of Hate (1988) and Women of the Far
                        Right (1996). He is researching a biography of Herbert Hoover.
            
            
                Migrating to the Movies Cinema and Black Urban Modernity By Jacqueline Najuma
                    Stewart (
                        Berkeley
                    : University of California Press, 2005. Pp. xix, 343. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $24.95)
                In Migrating to the Movies: Cinema and Black Urban Modernity, Jacqueline Najuma
                    Stewart describes the creation of an American cinema through its links to the Great Migration of
                    African Americans from the South during the first twenty years of the last century. This is a
                    brilliant move that sheds fresh light on two familiar stories. Through extensive,finely detailed research and well-judged interpretation, Stewart
                    recovers what was at stake in the production of images and narratives that sought to describe the
                    "reality" of black people in the raw, new medium of silent-era film. Well versed
                    in the tradition of black film scholarship that charts Hollywood's development of racialist
                    images, Stewart seeks to move beyond it through postcolonial and feminist theoretical models. From
                    this grounding she develops a way of seeing "preclassical film" that establishes
                    the active part played by African Americans in America's early film culture.
                An impressive aspect of Stewart's work is her skillful use of extant film, old newspapers,
                    correspondence, and other archival sources, including those held at Indiana University's
                    Black Film Center/Archive. This research allows her to recover the complex social life of 
                        Chicago's
                     Black Belt as it responded to a white-dominated cinema, helped to create the spaces of
                    a modern urbanism, and produced the "race film." This study revises the
                    presupposition, fostered in the pioneering work of Thomas Cripps and Daniel J. Leab, that silent-era
                    cinema related to the black community only as an instrument of racist stereotyping.
                Stewart opens her study with a consideration of "preclassical" film's
                    strategies for addressing the representational challenge posed by the New Negro. She argues that
                    while whites experimented with the motion picture as a new way of policing blackness, it proved an
                    unwieldy instrument, producing images that resisted cooptation into received racial categories. Her
                    interpretation of films in the sub-genre she calls the "misdirected kiss"
                    admirably supports this point. In Stewart's handling, silent-era film is also a record of
                    African Americans moving into a public sphere of new physical and emotional freedom.
                The creation of a vibrant film culture in early twentieth-century black 
                        Chicago
                     is the core of her project. Stewart's presentation of the social collision
                    between the uplift projects of its old settler elite and the emerging power of Southern migrants
                    through their engagement with the new mass medium makes for compelling reading. Class-inflected
                    debates over the propriety of certain leisure activities, the place of women in public spaces marked
                    by race and vice, and the vexed issue of patriotism in the fight for democracy at home and abroad
                    play significant roles in defining what film meant and how it was used by black audiences and
                    filmmakers. Stewart highlights the complex social impulses that drove black critical response to
                    film as a popular amusement and as a medium for conveying certain social truths.
                In her closing chapters, Stewart turns our attention to those African Americans who played active
                    roles, as actors, directors, managers, critics, and theater owners, in creating Amer-ican cinema. Oscar Micheaux, the most famous filmmaker of the
                    race film era, is her primary subject here. The isolated figure of previous studies develops as part
                    of the social and institutional networks that made him an influential and productive artist. In her
                    detailed and sensitive reading of Micheaux's 1920 film, Within Our Gates,
                    she argues that Micheaux took the narrative invention of D. W. Griffith's Birth of a Nation (1915) and applied it to African American rhetoric of racial uplift. In
                    so doing, he indicated "the unreliability of cinematic representation of Blackness in
                    general" (p. 237). This insight is by itself worth the price of admission.
                DE WITT DOUGLAS KILGORE is associate professor of English and American Studies at Indiana
                    University Bloomington, and is the author of Astrofuturism: Science, Race, and Visions
                        of Utopia in Space (2003).
            
            
                Black is a Country Race and the Unfinished Struggle for Democracy By Nikhil Pal
                    Singh (
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Mass.
                    : Harvard University Press, 2005. Pp. 285. Notes, index. $16.95.)
                In this critical volume, Nikhil Pal Singh demonstrates why racism in America is still an issue. He
                    argues that existing struggles have resulted from American imperialism, internationalism, and
                    neocolonialism, movements that have undermined democratic engagement in and outside of the
                        United States
                    . Singh's subtitle, "Race and the Unfinished Struggle for
                    Democracy," suggests that black African descendants continue to be traumatized by a type of
                    neo-liberalism that critiques white supremacy and racial capitalism, but does not include blacks as
                    complete partakers of the democratic ideal. Within this context, Singh writes convincingly that
                    global democracy remains an unfinished project because its ideals are linked to superficial notions
                    of universalism, paternalism, and American exceptionalism, all of which prevent blacks from engaging
                    in processes and positions that would help to dismantle global racism and foster transnationalist
                    poitics that might make democracy a universal reality. Connected to this global perspective is a
                    black reality that recognizes freedom as an ideological construction, dictated by race and the
                    ideals of white supremacy, that sees democracy as a praxis that involves protest and
                    blacks' right to act as their own agents of change.
                Through an examination of various social and political movements in twentieth-century American
                    communities, the five chapters comprising Black is a Country connect readers to
                    evolving scholarship that hasbegun to deconstruct the 
                        United States'
                     mythologized position as the great preserver and practitioner of democracy in the
                    world. Using frameworks that examine such forms of activism as self-autonomy, dissent, a black
                    critique of the dialectic of race and nation, the establishment by blacks of a counter-public space
                    that deconstructs liberalism, and the practice of a black self-determinism that challenges the
                    erasure of racism from the American fabric, Singh shows that this country has not been a nation into
                    which black people could successfully integrate, "but an empire they needed to oppose--not
                    a beloved community of shared traditions and aspirations, but a coercive state to be
                    overthrown" (p. 197). Indeed, for the majority of people of African descent, black is a
                    country and "blackness" has been a terrain, a space that seemingly necessitates
                    automatic occupation and domination, forcing black people to endure an experience that has led many,
                    like Langston Hughes, to continue to proclaim that, "America never was America to
                    me."
                This volume possesses much strength. But it places the struggle for global democracy too much between
                    the black and white binary. This is an approach that W. E. B. DuBois and Martin Luther King, Jr.,
                    would have critiqued as unacceptable, since other oppressed voices are needed to move the 
                        U.S.
                     mainstream beyond national allegiances to a world perspective. In addition, the author
                    should have defined more clearly such phrases as "nation-state" and such concepts
                    as "rethinking" race and nation; "reconstructing" democracy;
                    "internationalizing" freedom; "Americanizing" the Negro; and
                    "decolonizing" America, so that the very people about whom he is writing can
                    assess these ideas and understand them in such a way that they feel compelled to engage in the
                    universal struggle to end oppression.
                Black is a Country will have strong critics, many of whom will cry that the author
                    has misread race relations and has reset in motion the old struggles igniting disunity. Yet this
                    volume should be read by every literate citizen of the world and discussed among all those who
                    believe in freedom.
                VALERIE GRIM is associate professor and chair of the department of African American and African
                    Diaspora Studies at Indiana University Bloomington.
            
            
            
                Sprawl A Compact History By Robert Bruegmann (
                        Chicago
                    : University of Chicago Press, 2005. Pp. 301. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliographic
                    essay, index. $27.50.)
                Many decry urban sprawl, while a much smaller number of equally vocal advocates argue that sprawl is
                    not really a problem at all. Robert Bruegmann contributes to this debate by looking at sprawl in an
                    historical context. The book addresses the issue from three perspectives, considering the patterns
                    of urban development that constitute sprawl, the development of anti-sprawl movements, and attempts
                    to deal with sprawl.
                Bruegmann makes a convincing argument that sprawl has been a persistent feature of urban development
                    throughout history. Defining sprawl as unplanned, low-density, scattered urban development, he
                    describes sprawl in times and places ranging from ancient Rome and seventeenth-century London to the
                    present. While many consider sprawl as a new problem arising in recent decades in the 
                        United States
                    , he describes its occurrence early in the last century, explaining that it probably
                    reached its peak (in terms of the low density of development) in the period from 1930 through 1970.
                The book goes on to describe three anti-sprawl campaigns--in 
                        England
                     in the 1930s, in the post-war 
                        United States
                    , and in recent decades, extending from the 
                        United States
                     to much of the rest of the world. Bruegmann argues that the leaders of each movement
                    were elitists intent on furthering their own interests, and that their arguments about the problems
                    created by sprawl were often ill-supported by evidence. His final section, describing attempts to
                    deal with sprawl, focuses on the limitations and unintended consequences of such efforts.
                This book presents a great deal of very good information enhanced by Bruegmann's historical
                    perspective. I wish that I could recommend it to my friends who are ardent but uncritical opponents
                    of sprawl--they would benefit from having solid information about alternative views. Unfortunately,
                    Bruegmann's choice in taking an advocacy position against those who oppose sprawl will make
                    it easy for them to dismiss this book (as has already happened in a flurry of negative reviews).
                Bruegmann is honest and straightforward about his position. Since the vast majority of the work
                    dealing with sprawl stresses its negative aspects, he says he is seeking to redress the balance of
                    opinion. But doing so leads him at times to make arguments that are less effective and convincing
                    than they might have been, had he taken a more balanced approach. His broad definition of the
                    phenomenon leads him to classify virtually all urban growth and develop-ment as sprawl, but he then fails to identify quantitative or qualitative differences
                    in patterns of development that would acknowledge the considerable differences between sprawl in
                    late twentieth-century Atlanta and seventeenth-century London. The discussion of the anti-sprawl
                    campaigns includes lists of the problems attributed to sprawl alongside evidence of why these may
                    not really be problems. Bruegmann does seem to realize that he may be overdoing it, at one point
                    admitting that he "is not trying to suggest that all of the charges against sprawl are
                    false" (p. 138). But that is what his subsequent arguments appear intended to do. The
                    author's argumentative tone is very unfortunate. Amidst a highly polemical body of
                    literature, Bruegmann's book provides a valuable historical perspective on the problem of
                    sprawl based on good research and scholarship. But by adopting the position of an advocate against
                    those opposed to sprawl, his work can be too easily dismissed as yet another polemic.
                JOHN R. OTTENSMANN is from the Center for Urban Policy and the Environment, School of Public and
                    Environmental Affairs, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis.
            
            
            
                REVIEW NOTICES
                The Governors of 
                            Indiana
                         By Linda C. Gugin and James E. St. Clair
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006. Pp. xx, 434. Illustrations, notes.
                    $34.95.)
                This handy volume brings into one place basic information about each of Indiana's governors,
                    from William Henry Harrison to Mitchell E. Daniels Jr. Ranging from four to twelve pages, the
                    entries contain a narrative summary and a list for further reading. That many of the recommendations
                    point to biographical dictionaries or to histories of the entire state indicates the great need for
                    further biographical and historical analysis of Hoosier executives. Quotations in the narratives are
                    not cited, and crossediting might have placed Logan Esarey's Messages and
                        Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon, and William Hendricks (1924) in the list of
                    references for all three of the governors.
                Life of Lincoln Produced by the Sanders Group
                 (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005.2 DVD set; 100 minutes. $19.95.)
                Young Lincoln Produced by Todd Gould
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Indiana Historical Society, 2005. DVD; 60 minutes. $19.95.)
                Life of Lincoln offers a brief summary of the sixteenth president's public
                    life. Opening with depictions of Lincoln's presence on the modern landscape, the didactic
                    video is accompanied by a teacher's guide and driven by simple questions posed and answered
                    by the onscreen hostess. Samples from the image collections at the Indiana Historical Society
                    together with footage and interviews of Illinois Lincoln sites and personnel present Lincoln as a
                    precocious Hoosier boy who grew into a consistently antislavery man. Several short
                    "enhancement" segments cover topics such as document preservation, Lincoln
                    photography, and political cartoons.
                Young Lincoln opens with the question of 
                        Indiana'
                     impact on Lincoln. Interspersed with scenes of the southern 
                        Indiana
                     countryside andaccompanied by fiddle music,
                    scholars of the Lincoln family, Indiana, and the Midwest present the future president as a self-made
                    pioneer man, weighing in on topics including Abe's reading and humor, the deaths of his
                    mother and sister, and his flatboating experience. Less structured and more solidly grounded than
                        Life of Lincoln, this brief video would serve as an excellent introduction for
                    Hoosiers of all ages interested in the boyhood years of the Civil War president.
                Pike County Indiana History Articles Compiled by the Pike County Historical Society
                    and Sandy McBeth
                (
                        Petersburg
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Pike County Historical Society, 2006. Pp. 136. Index. Paperbound, $20.00.)
                This volume reprints local history articles, written by county historian Sandy McBeth, that ran
                    weekly in the Pike County Press-Dispatch during 2000. Unnumbered hours of research
                    and writing culminated in stories about local connections to the Revolutionary, Civil, and World
                    Wars. Other stories describe the Lincoln family's migration through the area, the
                    underground railroad, local businesses and schools, an early twentieth-century campaign to close
                    "houses of ill fame," and holiday and wedding customs.
                Man with a Price on His Head The Life and Times of George Boxley
                (
                        Sheridan
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Sheridan Historical Society, 2005. Pp. 60. Photographs, illustrations. Paper bound,
                    $25.00.)
                Sales of this published version of an unattributed 1930s typescript benefit the restoration of the
                    pioneer cabin built by George Boxley (1780-1865). This early abolitionist was born in 
                        Virginia
                    , was convicted and narrowly escaped execution for helping two runaway slaves, and spent
                    years away from his family on the run in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , finally setting in 
                        Indiana
                     in 1828. The prose is old-fashioned, but Boxley's story adds to the early
                    history of abolitionism in the Midwest. A collection of family photos and newspaper clippings
                    finishes the volume.
                Kiantone Chatauqua County's Mystical ValleyBy Deborah K. Cronin (
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : AuthorHouse, 2006. Pp. xix, 217. Illustrations, appendix, bibliography, endnotes.
                    Paperbound, $13.40; electronic, $4.95.)
                 This book traces the history of a spiritualist community founded in 1853 in the Kiantone valley of
                    Chautauqua County, 
                        New York
                    , whose members eventually moved to 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     and established ties with other communities in 
                        Washington,
                        D.C.
                    , and Europe. In the town of Patriot on the 
                        Indiana
                     side of the Ohio River,
                    community members participated in the underground railroad and Hoosier river life, advocating such
                    issues as abolition, women's suffrage, and free love. The author is an ordained United
                    Methodist clergy-woman and Civil War buff, and this book is also the story of the author's
                    quest to uncover hidden history.
                Source Books I and II Southern Indiana Hospital for the Insane Compiled by Corless L. Evans
                 (
                        Petersburg
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Pike County Historical Society, 2006. N.p. Paperbound, $20.00 each.)
                Corless "Corky" Evans became interested in the history of the Evansville State
                    Hospital when she became an employee in 1996. In 1999 she discovered that one of her ancestors had
                    lived in the hospital from approximately 1900 to 1913, and she set out to prepare a history of the
                    institution, known formerly as the Southern Indiana Hospital for the Insane and also as Woodmere.
                    Because the hospital's business records were burned, Evans turned to local history sources,
                    particularly newspapers. These volumes present full typescripts of articles, correspondence, and
                    census data relevant to the hospital for the years 1899 through 1903. Headlines report expenditures
                    and building plans, court decisions for individual insanity cases, and the deaths and escapes of
                    patients.
                Plow a Straight Row Willisville Beginnings and Beyond By Imel H. Willis
                (
                        Decorah
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    : Anundsen Publishing, 2005. Pp. 377. Photographs, maps, genealogical lists. Price set
                    by author depending upon order.)
                With the help of his daughter, Imel Willis has compiled his memoirs, that stretch from his birth
                    (1917) and boyhood in 
                        Pike County
                     to his retirement in 
                        California
                    . Willis recalls buggy trips in southern 
                        Indiana
                    , hunting, hog butchering, and sorghum making. He attended Petersburg High School and
                    Indiana University before working as a teacher and principal in 
                        Indiana
                     and 
                        Germany
                    
                
                Tourney Time The Indiana High School Athletic Association Boys' Basketball
                        Tournament, 1911-2005 By Bill May (
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Emmis Books, 2005. Pp.ix, 688. Illustrations, scores. $24.99.)
                This comprehensive encyclopedia offers scores and officiator names for the more than 50,000 Indiana
                    High School Athletic Association (IHSAA) basketball tournament games from 1911 through 2005. Bill
                    May, a referee for the IHSAA from 1951 to 1974, prefaces the compendium with a collection of his
                    memories of 23 years on the court, including the longest game ever (9 overtimes), the
                    highest-scoring game in state finals history, and the time that a referee scored two points for the
                    winning team.
                
                Natural Resources and the Great Depression in Martin County and Central Indiana The
                        Memoirs of William B. Barnes By William B. Barnes 
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 2005. Pp. xviii, 150. Illustrations, works cited, index.
                    Paperbound, $14.95.)
                The author first came to work in Indiana in 1933 with the Civilian Conservation Corps and then worked
                    from 1935 to 1940 with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Resettlement Administration
                    program. His memoir focuses on the condition of natural resources in 
                        Martin County
                     during these years. He details both federal and state programs to reclaim substandard
                    farmland, preserve and expand protected forestland, and, in general, to develop a management plan
                    for the county's natural resources. The end of the memoir deals briefly with the
                    author's move to the Indiana Department of Conservation in 1940, when much of the land in 
                        Martin County
                     was taken over by the military to build the Crane Naval Ammunition Depot (later the
                    Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center).
                Driving to Stony Lonesome Jack Welpott's 
                            Indiana
                         Photographs, 1936-1959 By Jack Welpott
                (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xvii, 169. Photographs. Paperbound,
                    $27.95.)
                After a short introductory essay by Welpott, reflecting on his early life in southern 
                        Indiana
                     and the influence of his mentor, Indiana University professor Henry Holmes Smith, the
                    book presents 143 of Welpott's photos: two youthful attempts from the 1930s and the rest
                    photographs taken from 1948 through 1959, after Welpott had returned from World War II to southern 
                        Indiana
                    . Welpott captured Saturday afternoons on the square in 
                        Bloomington
                    , families at the Indiana State Fair, rural churches and members of their congregations,
                    science labs at IU, and many people, some family and friends, most ordinary folks who posed for the
                    camera or were captured on film going about their lives. 
                The Soldier's Friend A Life of Ernie Pyle By Ray E. Boomhower
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006. Pp. x, 134. Illustrations, index.
                    $17.95.)
                This biography explores the legendary life and career of Ernie Pyle as a child in Dana, 
                        Indiana
                    ; as a roving reporter with small-town and city newspapers; and as an internationally
                    known cor-respondent describing the horrors of combat faced by
                    the average G.I. Although aimed at young readers, and heavily illustrated, the book also features a
                    detailed bibliography of World War II sources, samples of Pyle's news columns, and an
                    index.
                
                            LaPorte
                        , 
                            Indiana
                         By Jason Bitner
                (
                        New York
                    : Princeton Artchitectural Press, 2006. Photographs. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                During the 1950s and 1960s, Frank and Gladys Pease ran a photography studio in 
                        LaPorte
                    , and copies of the over 18,000 photographs taken were recently discovered and brought
                    to the attention of Jason Bitner, the author of Found Magazine. Selected
                    photographs are presented here with very little to no identification, simply page after page of
                    portraits. Most of the subjects are white, although they represent all ages. Clever juxtaposition
                    links a young black man and an elderly white man with the same hairdo and a little girl and an aged
                    woman with the same glasses. Viewers are left to forge their own interpretations of a generation of
                    LaPorteans by looking into the evidence of their faces.
                My 
                            Indiana
                         101 Places to SeeBy Earl L. Conn
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 213. Maps, illustrations. Paper
                    bound, $19.95.)
                Based on a travel column written for the 
                            Muncie
                         StarPress, this book provides a personal view of tourism sites both well-known
                    and obscure throughout the Hoosier state. The book divides the state into six areas. Each section
                    begins with a locator map and then provides two-page entries on each site, with directions, contact
                    and fee information, photographs, and the author's comments. Locations range from the
                    obvious, such as the Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial, to the little-known, such as the
                    Mid-American Windmill Museum in 
                        Kendallville
                    . Although there is no index, each site is listed in the preliminary table of contents.
                The Nature Conservancy's Guide to 
                            Indiana
                         Preserves Compiled by the Nature Conservancy of Indiana. Photographs by Ron
                    Leonetti and Christopher Jordan
                (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xviii, 312. Illustrations, maps, index. Paper
                    bound, $27.95.)
                Naturalists and hikers who want to explore beyond the state parks should investigate this guide to
                    the fifty-four statewide preserves of the Nature Conservancy.
                    Each site is beautifully photographed, with a brief accompanying essay about the type of land, its
                    plants, animals, and birds, a small map, and information about parking and the type of terrain to
                    expect. Just leafing through the pages will reveal hidden gems, such as a bald cypress swamp at the
                    Twin Swamps Preserve in the southwestern corner of the state, and the 1500 acres of sand prairie at
                    Hoosier Prairie in 
                        Lake County
                    .
                Remembrance, Faith and Fancy Outdoor Public Sculpture in 
                            Indiana
                         By Glory-June Greiff (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005. Pp. xi, 315. Photographs, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $39.95.)
                In the early 1990s Glory-June Grieff directed the Historical Landmarks Foundation's Save
                    Outdoor Sculpture Survey, and this volume features more than 1500 pieces identified in that
                    monumental effort. Before the 190-page, county-by-county listing of sculptures, the author analyzes
                    the works related to war and peace, heroes, religion, whimsies and oddities, allegory, and
                    aesthetics. More than 200 photographs are supplemented by helpful biographical infor- mation about
                    many of the artists.
                2nd Stories A Hoosier Photographer Explores What's Upstairs, on Top, and
                        Overhead By John Bower. Foreword by Michael Atwood (
                        Bloomington
                    : Studio Indiana, 2005. Pp. 144. Photographs. Paperbound, $22.00.)
                Anyone interested in the built environment, past and present, of 
                        Indiana
                     should be intrigued by this book of photographs by John Bower which, in the words of
                    the foreword, "encourages all to simply lift their gaze a bit and discover a magnificent
                    world we seldom notice" (p. 4). The collection of black-and-white photos includes second
                    stories, sculptural details, painted signs, ironwork, interiors, and other views of buildings from
                    across the state of 
                        Indiana
                    . Captions identify each building, and its city and county.
                Invisible Presence A Walk Through 
                            Indiana
                         in Photographs and Poems Photographs by Darryl D. Jones. Poems by Norbert
                    Krapf. Foreword by Scott Russell Sanders
                (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xv, 270. Photographs, appendix, index.
                    $39.95.)
                This is not a typical combination of poetry and photographs; rather, it is a trip to a place where
                    the boundaries of things blur, revealing the "mysterious, luminous quality"
                    within. Pho-tographer Darryl Jones manipulates the dyes under
                    the surface of a print while it is still developing, leaving an image that, despite its indistinct
                    edges and mottled colors, is still recognizable. Norbert Krapf's accompanying poems link
                    these exterior images with an interior landscape of memory and emotion. This process--which Jones
                    calls a type of "theophany"--works seamlessly, bound together by images and
                    celebratory psalms of life in pastoral and small-town 
                        Indiana
                    .
                Germans in the Civil War The Letters They Wrote Home Edited by Walter D.
                    Kamphoefner and Wolfgang Helbich. Translated by Susan Carter Vogel (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. xxiv, 521. Notes, map, table,
                    illustrations, glossary, bibliography, index. $59.95.)
                Historians of the Civil War will no longer be able to complain about a dearth of sources on German
                    immigrant soldiers and their families. This volume contains selections from 343 letters written by
                    78 immigrants, out of a much larger set of 956 Civil-War period letters by 258 authors, all part of
                    the North America Letter Collection in 
                        Gotha
                    , 
                        Germany
                    . The editors discover a "distinctly German standpoint" (p. xii) on
                    the war, German immigrants' reasons for fighting (or not fighting), and conditions on the
                    homefront. Readers looking for 
                        Indiana
                     soldiers will find only one set of letters, but Dr. Magnus Brucker's
                    correspondence almost compensates for his solo status. Brucker, from 
                        Troy
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , was a surgeon for the 23rd Indiana Infantry, and his letters cover battles and
                    campaigns including Shiloh, Corinth, Vicksburg, Atlanta, and Savannah.
                Long Road to Liberty The Odyssey of a German Regiment in the Yankee Army, The 15th
                        Missouri Volunteer Army By Donald Allendorf
                (Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xxvii, 342. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.00.)
                This volume is a welcome addition to the literature on immigrant regiments in the Civil War. Using
                    the memoir of Maurice Marcoot (the sole known account from the regiment) in combination with
                    official records and correspondence, Allendorf reconstructs the history of the longest-serving
                    regiment from Missouri, notable for seeing action throughout the western theater and for its
                    horrifically high mortality rate.
                
                Behind Bayonets The Civil War in Northern 
                            Ohio
                         By David D. Van Tassel, with John Vacha
                 (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 125. Photographs, notes, index.
                    $35.00.)
                Begun by Van Tassel as a monograph to accompany a Civil War exhibit at the Western Reserve Historical
                    Society, the book was completed by Vacha after the primary author's death. The title is
                    somewhat misleading, as the focus is almost entirely on the city of 
                        Cleveland
                    , but readers will not quibble about the quality of the scholarship. The rather slim
                    volume draws from many first-person accounts and provides an excellent overview of both life on the
                    homefront and life on the battlelines for regiments recruited from the area. Extensive illustrations
                    further enhance the volume's appeal.
                History of the 90th 
                            Ohio
                         Volunteer Infantry in the War of the Great Rebellion in the 
                            United States
                        , 1861 to 1865 By Henry O. Harden. Edited by Scott Cameron
                (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 341. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $24.95.)
                This book is a facsimile of a 1902 work, compiled by former Civil War private and later newspaper
                    publisher Henry Harden. Harden solicited and then published the diaries, letters, poems, stories,
                    and photographs of veterans of his own 90th Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Although a reprint of such
                    a volume is always praise-worthy, it is unfortunate that the modern "editing"
                    consists of one two-page introduction. Given the lack of structure in the book, an index would have
                    been of immense value.
                Still Standing A Century of Urban Train Station Design By Christopher Brown
                (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp. ix, 135. Photographs, bibliography, index.
                    $49.95.)
                This pictorial survey of urban train station design covers a one-hundred-year period (from roughly
                    1850 to 1950) and four continents. It celebrates the longevity of forty of the world's most
                    famous stations through color photographs of their basic physical structure and artistic details.
                    Although created as a coffee-table book, Still Standing transcends simple visual
                    depiction of these stations, with brief discussions of their design in the context of the growth and
                    demise of trains as popular means of transportation.
                
                The Cleveland Indians By Franklin Lewis. Foreword by Russell Schneider
                (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xviii, 286. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                    $18.00.)
                The Cincinnati Reds By Lee Allen. Foreword by Greg Rhodes
                (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xvii, 315. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                    $18.00.)
                Kent State University Press's Writing Sports series publishes reprints of classic sports
                    books (with an emphasis on baseball because of its historical standing as the national pastime). The Cleveland Indians and The Cincinnati Reds are the first two
                    books in the series, originally published in the late 1940s, but updated here with new introductory
                    biographical material on authors Franklin Lewis and Lee Allen.
                Lewis's history of the Indians covers the organization's development in the late
                    nineteenth century, its 1920 World Series victory, and concludes with its 1948 pennant race.
                    Allen's look at the Reds covers a similar timeframe: the team's organization
                    shortly after the Civil War, its 1919 National League pennant, and its 1940 World Series
                    championship. Both books are absorbing in their telling of many of the lesser-known or forgotten
                    stories of baseball personalities and events, and they are important contributions to a discussion
                    of the role of sports in defining culture and society.
                Uncommon Threads 
                            Ohio's
                         Art Quilt Revolution By Gayle A. Pritchard
                (
                        Athens
                    : Ohio University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 130. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $19.95.)
                This small but generously illustrated book tells the story of how 
                        Ohio
                     craftswomen and men played an important role in the creation of the modern art quilt
                    movement. Essays follow a variety of 
                        Ohio
                     quilters from the 1970s--when the concept of quilts as one-of-a-kind pieces of art
                    meant "for walls, not beds" began to gain popularity--to the twenty-first century.
                    There are dozens of full-page photos of quilts, many detailed close-up photos, and an extensive
                    bibliography Anyone interested in the modern history of quilting in America will value this
                book.
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
        
    
