
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 34, Issue 3, pages 261-392. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:34+issue:3+year:1938&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana
            MAX EHRMANN
            
            The pioneers lie in their earthen beds. Still lives their dauntless faith to do and dare,
                    In cities that lift high their lofty heads, In busy towns that prosper everywhere.
            What sturdy men have plowed these fertile fields, Here in this land where pleasant rivers
                    run— Where wayside flowers, forests, harvest yields Are nursed by never-failing
                    rain and sun!
            A toiling, peaceful life this people leads, Not moved by red rebellion's scarlet
                    leer, Nor whirlwinds shouting sophomoric creeds. The turmoils of the world touch lightly
                    here.
            If in some future time our country fall On rocks of evil days, this middle land Will lift
                    her up, her sanity recall, And bind her wounds as with a mother's hand.
            For here we know no sections, east or west, Or north or south. Here are the people bound By
                    many sacred ties to all the rest. Here is the heartbeat of the nation sound.
            Dear Indiana, always, as of old, Keep thou thy soul unsullied as the sea, Despising
                    tyrants, whether mobs or gold—Compassionate mother of a people free.
         
         
         
            Schuyler Colfax: Whig Editor, 1845–1855*
            
            WILLARD H. SMITH
            
            The blood of families of the English 
                        Puritan
                    , the French Huguenot and the Dutch Reformed churches flowed in the veins of Schuyler
                    Colfax. He was born in 
                        New York
                     City on March 23, 1823. His paternal grandfather was General William Colfax, who, in
                    the Revolutionary War, was commander of 
                        Washington
                    's picked Life Guard.1 At the close of the War, General
                    Colfax married Hester Schuyler, a cousin of General Philip Schuyler. On the maternal side the
                    ancestry of Schuyler Colfax included the La Masters and Strykers.2 His mother
                    was a Stryker. His father died a few months before the son was born. In 1834 Mrs. Colfax married
                    George W. Matthews of 
                        Baltimore
                    . In the meantime, Schuyler was attending the public schools of 
                        New York
                     City. He did not go far in the attainment of a formal education and often referred in
                    later life to his training in the school of experience.3
            
            The year 1836 found the Matthews family contributing their part to the great westward movement of the
                    period. Traveling by way of 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    , they settled at New 
                        Carlisle
                    , Indiana, just west of 
                        South Bend
                    . Here young Schuyler Colfax spent the next five years clerking in his
                    step-father's store and doing farm work in the surrounding community. The Matthews house
                    was used for a Sunday school in which the step-father, mother and son were teachers.4 It is well to mention this in passing as the religious environment of Colfax had its
                    influence on his later life.
            
               
                  * This paper was read at one of the sessions of the Annual
                        Indiana History Conference, which was held at the Claypool Hotel, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , on Dec. 10–11, 1937. The author is a professor of history on the
                        faculty of 
                            Goshen
                         College, 
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana. He has been doing research on the political career of Schuyler Colfax for
                        some time with a view to a doctoral dissertation. The article here published is but a part of a
                        larger study which will be completed later. This account of the period when Colfax was a Whig
                        editor in 
                            South Bend
                         should be of interest to our readers.— Editor.
               
               
                  1
                  
                     St. Joseph Valley Register, Oct.
                        16, 1846 (Hereafter cited as Register). An original muster roll and a pay roll
                        are now in the Indiana State Library, Colfax Mss.
               
                  2 A. Y. Moore, Life of Schnyler Colfax (
                            Philadelphia
                        , c. 1868), 33: O. J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                            New York
                        , 1886), 15.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 18–19.
               
                  4
                        Register, July 6, 1854; Hollister, op. cit.,
                        23–26.
            
            
            In 1841 the Matthews family moved to 
                        South Bend
                     which remained the home of Schuyler Colfax until his death in 1885. Before locating in
                    the city, Mr. Matthews had been elected Auditor of 
                        St. Joseph
                     County on the Whig ticket. Young Schuyler was appointed Deputy-Auditor by Mr. Matthews.
                    Interested in politics ever since he was a lad, his opportunities for studying the game were now
                    greater than ever. He was expected to study law, which he did rather spasmodically, but apparently
                    never intended to take it up as a profession. "Other subjects," he stated,
                    interfered too much with his study. One of these other "subjects" was a love
                    affair with Miss Evelyn Clark of Argyle, 
                        New York
                    , whom he later married.
            Another matter which interfered with the study of law was politics. The call to party activity was
                    too strong. In debating clubs, mock legislatures and mock courts he and his friends fought out the
                    issues of the day. Forces had played upon him from the beginning that made of him a steadfast Whig.
                    His correspondence shows that relatives and friends often encouraged him to stand fast in the Whig
                        faith.5
            
            Interest in newspapers and journalism started at an early date. From youth on it was a common sight
                    in the home to see Schuyler sprawled out on the floor poring over a newspaper. Nothing seemed to
                    interest him more than the political events of the day. Not satisfied merely to read papers, he felt
                    the urge to write articles. At the age of sixteen, he began writing for local papers and two years
                    later he made arrangements with Horace Greeley to send in articles for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune. "I shall be happy," Greeley wrote, "to hear
                    from you on the terms so generously proposed by you as often as you think proper. … Write
                    me whenever you have any thing to communicate. … Let me hear what you see and learn about
                    Politics, Business, Crops, etc. … "6 During the years
                    1841–1843, Colfax was a fairly frequent contributor to the Tribune. His
                    articles cover all sorts of conditions and subjects in Indiana: internal improvements, banking,
                    crops, weather, temperance reform and, of course, politics, to mention only a few. They constitute
                        
                  
                     5 See, for example, a long letter from Colonel Ralph Clark, his future
                            father-in-law, Apr. 9, 1841, Colfax Mss. Indiana State Library.
                  
                     6 Greeley to Colfax, July 26. 1841, Colfax Mss. See also Hollister,
                                op. cit. 30.
               
                     a not unimportant source for the study of Indiana history for
                    these few years.7
            
            The 
                        Puritan
                     in Colfax made him a reformer. One of the reforms in which he was personally interested
                    was that of temperance. A Total Abstinence Society was started in 
                        South Bend
                     in the early eighteen-forties and grew rapidly. Colfax took the pledge of a tee-totaler
                    sometime in 1842. To his fiancée, Miss Evelyn Clark, he announced that "since my
                    return West I have taken an inward pledge against drinking any kind of liquor. Thus far I have kept
                    it strictly, and in all my gayety and blithesomeness no temptation shall ever lead me to pollute my
                    lips with the liquid fire."8 It appears that this pledge was never
                    broken, but reforms of this kind could go too far, Colfax thought. On one occasion he and a few
                    other youngsters pledged themselves to abstain from smoking for three months in order to test their
                    moral fortitude. When congratulated for abandoning smoking he replied: 
                  
                     
                        You congratulate me on abandoning smoking, but the pledge expired last week, and we
                                    have all been gloriously smoking ever since. One of the members broke the pledge; we
                                    tried and convicted him, and turned him out, and fined him one hundred Spanish
                                    cigars, which will last us some time. I don't think it does me much harm,
                                    if any, and I guess I won't join another anti-tobacco society soon.9
                        
                     
                  
                It seems that this pledge too was kept, for Colfax is believed to have been second only to
                    Ulysses S. Grant when it came to smoking.
            During the winter of 1842–43, Colfax had further experience as a newspaper reporter. He
                    went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he was engaged as Senate reporter for the Indiana State
                    Journal, then published by a close friend and former fellow-townsman, John D. Defrees. The
                    latter's home, Colfax found a storm-center of Whig politics, so he was now in his
                        element.10
            
            After returning home from the legislative session, the Whigs of his section persuaded him to act as
                    principal editor of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Free Press, a Whig journal. "It is done secretly," he wrote to
                    his uncle. "The Locos suspect it, and 
                  
                     7To cite but a few of these articles, see 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune (weekly), March 5, 1842; May 14, 1842; July 23, 1842; Feb. 4,
                            1843.
                  
                     8 Hollister, op. cit., 34.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 35.
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     hate me cordially; but I have a host of Whig friends. I tell
                    you, my dear uncle, without egotism, the name you and I bear is not entirely unknown in Northern
                    Indiana; and if an honorable ambition will serve, it will yet be known and hated by more Locos even
                    than now." Writing of the resolutions adopted at the recent Whig District
                    Convention—Colfax serving as Chairman of the Resolutions Committee—he
                    continued: "You will see (they) are of the most ultra character; for I am an uncompromising
                    Whig—Whig all over."11
            
            It will be seen by the foregoing that by 1845, Colfax was not a new-comer in the field of journalism.
                    But in this year, his most important venture in the field was launched. He and Albert W. West
                    purchased the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Free Press and renamed it the 
                  St. Joseph Valley
                        Register, with Colfax as editor. It was to be issued weekly. Said the editor in the first
                    issue: 
                        In presenting ourselves before you as the conductors of this paper, custom demands, and
                            inclination requires, that we should set forth as briefly as possible, our intentions as to
                            its future course. In Politics, we shall be inflexibly Whig, believing
                            those principles the best and safest and wisest for the administration of our Government.
                            With an abiding confidence that, sooner or later, those principles will gloriously and
                            permanently triumph, we shall labor for them as zealously and faithfully when the prospect
                            is dimmed by defeat or reverses, as when it is lit up by the sunshine of Victory.
                     The language used in defending these principles, however, would be such as to offend no
                    reasonable opponent, the young Whig editor rashly declared.
            As to the state debt the editor asserted that he would advocate the side of honesty against
                    repudiation. He conceded that the state might not be able to pay every cent of the interest
                    immediately. But common justice, he thought, demanded that as much of it as possible should be paid.
                    "This done, we could all feel that the shame and blight-spot on our State's credit
                    and fame had passed away. … We shall advocate a prompt settlement of the
                    matter."
            On the slavery issue, which was shortly to become still more important, a position between the
                    extremes was announced: "We shall be opposed both to Calhounism and Birneyism, viewing them
                    both as ultraisms. … " The editor condemned Calhoun for holding that slavery was
                    a 
                  
                     11 Colfax to George Colfax, March —, 1843, quoted in
                            Hollister, op. cit., 37; Indiana State Journal, Jan. 20,
                            1848.
               
                     national blessing and the cornerstone of the Republic. He
                    criticized the Liberty Party more because he thought its position prevented calm and argumentative
                    discussion in the South and thus tended to rivet the chains of the slave more firmly. He was opposed
                    to any extension of slave territory, however, and declared he would hail the day when the southern
                    states should see fit to adopt some feasible plan of emancipation.
            The columns of the Register indicate that another announced policy—that
                    of attention to agriculture—was carried out. 
                        
                     Agriculture shall always have a portion of our paper devoted to it, and Education, the hand-maid of Liberty—if not its twin
                            sister—shall have its fair share; while the growing progress of this fertile
                            Valley of our beautiful and gently-flowing River shall also be carefully watched.
                            …
                    
            
            Every effort would be made to secure the latest news and to make the paper a real `Register'
                    of passing events. As long as there should be no Democratic paper in the County, it would be the
                    policy of the Register to publish the official proceedings of Democratic
                    Conventions when furnished with attested copies.
            This "bow to the public" concluded as follows: 
                        And now, kind Public, attached friends,—whose oft-repeated marks of esteem and
                            kindness have made many of our past hours full of happiness—we have said our say. What say you?12
                  
                    
            
            Contemporaries welcomed the new journal into the newspaper fraternity. The 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium remarked that Colfax was an able writer and that his paper would be an
                    efficient organ of the "Whigs of old St. Jo."13 The 
                        Rushville
                    
                    Whig had no doubt that Colfax would drive the "grey goose quill"
                    with good effect. Said the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal: "It is one of the very best papers in the State, and we have no
                    doubt that its good influences will be deeply and extensively felt." The Indiana State Journal praised the editor as one having a thorough acquaintance with
                    political subjects and as one of the best writers of the state. The 
                        Kalamazoo
                     (Mich.) Telegraph, remarking that Colfax was one of the most
                    effective writers in Indiana, added: "Besides … he is a gentleman. …
                    " The 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Democrat, differing 
                  
                     12
                            Register, Sept. 12, 1845.
                  
                     13 This quotation and those following are found in the Register, Oct. 10, 1845.
               
                     in politics, could not wish the proprietors success in
                    establishing their principles, but did wish them an abundant pecuniary harvest. The Democratic
                    organ—the Indiana State Sentinel—noted that the Register is "well got up. … In politics, it will probably be of the
                        Tribune school."14 The Sentinel
                    on a later occasion said that Colfax "although a whig of the most violent stamp, we have
                    always been willing to recognize as a gentleman of decided promise."15
            
            Colfax thought it necessary to reply editorially to the statement that the Register
                        would probably be of the "Tribune school." In so far as the "Tribune school" indicated an attachment to Whig principles and an earnest
                    support of Whig candidates the Register would strive to emulate its example.
                    "But with the position of the Tribune as regards Fourierism and some of
                    the other Reforming views of that paper we do not concur. This is well known to
                    Mr. Greeley."16
            
            The support given the new journal in 
                        St. Joseph
                     and surrounding counties was generous. Starting with a subscription list of some two
                    hundred fifty its circulation quadrupled in a few years. In the spring of 1846, Colfax became sole
                    proprietor. On September 10, 1847, the editor announced an enlargement of the paper and expressed
                    the hope that it would now meet with still greater support. The Register was now
                    about the size of the Indiana State Journal and the only seven-column paper north
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     Counties. The successful use of the telegraph, expected to come shortly, would, it was
                    thought, make eastern papers, so far as news was concerned, comparatively valueless in the West.17
            
            Rev. A. Y. Moore, a fellow-townsman and friend of Colfax, later characterized the Register in high terms: 
                        The Register was a pure paper. It did not carry the delineations of the revolting and
                            demoralizing scenes of crime into the households it visited. It was the advocate of good
                            things; an earnest, ardent advocate of temperance, and the things that build up society.
                            Many a fine essay worthy of a better fate than `alms for oblivion' is found in its
                            old files. Its selections were of high character, made from the best popular, historical,
                            scientific and literary productions of the press. Sprightly effervescence of genial,
                            intellectual power, gleamed in its editorials. Innumerable letters from its ever-journeying
                            editor, gave the geography, 
                        
                           14
                                    Ibid., Oct. 10, 1845.
                        
                           15
                                    Ibid., Sept. 5, 1850.
                        
                           16
                                    Ibid., Oct. 3, 1845.
                        
                           17
                                    Ibid., Sept. 10, 1847; Apr. 17, 1846; A. Y. Moore, Life of Colfax, 37; Hollister, p. 41.
                     
                             statistics, politics and history of different portions
                            of the country.18
                  
                    
            
            As suggested in this rating, the interest of Colfax in the temperance movement was not a mere
                    youthful flash in the pan. Not a little space in the paper was given to it. Colfax himself became
                    secretary of a County Total Abstinence Society.19 His editorial interests were
                    quite broad, however. As was the case with the typical newspaper of the times, subjects of current
                    interest and discussion found their way into the columns of the Register. A matter
                    of concern was internal improvements, railroads in particular. The 
                        South Bend
                     editor not only fought for what he wanted with his pen, but attended conventions as
                    well. One such was the River and Harbor Convention held in 
                        Chicago
                     on July 5–6, 1847. Colfax was made the principal secretary of the
                    Convention, an office he frequently held in the conventions that he attended. Included among the
                    speakers were Edward Bates of 
                        Missouri
                     and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     of 
                        Illinois
                    . If Colfax had succeeded, the resolutions passed would have been even more
                    unequivocally in favor of expenditures on internal improvements than those which were accepted.20
            
            In the fall of 1847, Colfax found time to go to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and stand as a candidate for Clerk of the House of Representatives. His editorial
                    correspondence while on this as on other trips away from 
                        South Bend
                     is of interest to the historian. One paragraph in his first letter describes his trip
                    to the capital. Commenting on the trials to be undergone in traveling over the
                    "delectable" 
                        Michigan
                     road, he wrote: 
                  
                     
                        Of course I was not exempt from the usual fate of those adventurous mortals who
                                    almost tempt 
                                        Providence
                                     to punish them for risking themselves upon it [
                                        Michigan
                                     Road]. But, after the usual quantum of joltings, borne with the
                                    uncomplaining fortitude of a stoic, tho' not with the unruffled placidity
                                    of one of Fox's Martyrs, I reached the great city of Indiana last Saturday
                                    with bones whole, though weary, and with appetite not diminished by the dangers of
                                    mud, chuck-holes and corduroys through which I had safely passed.21
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In a House very closely divided politically, Colfax failed of election. He attributed his defeat,
                    which he himself foresaw, 
                  
                     18 Moore, op. cit., 37.
                  
                     19
                            Register, Feb. 22, 1847.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., July 9, 1847; Colfax to Mrs. Colfax (n.d.), quoted in Hollister,
                            42.
                  
                     21
                            Register, Dec. 1, 1847.
               
                     to the fact that his locality was so far north, to the fact
                    that he refused "most obstinately" to accept any of the bargains urged on him by
                    the Democrats, and to the refusal of some Democrats to support him as he had expected. He thought
                    also that it was a strategic mistake for four-fifths of the Whigs to vote for him on the first
                        ballot.22 He remained in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during most of the session, however, serving again as reporter for the Indiana State Journal as on several previous occasions. It seems that Colfax enjoyed these
                    contacts with the leading men of the state and no doubt used them to good political advantage. But
                    because of a smallpox scare among the legislators he found himself back at his editorial duties in 
                        South Bend
                     sooner than he had anticipated. One of the legislators, Hon. Andrew Kennedy, of 
                        Muncie
                    , became ill with the smallpox, but before the nature of his illness was known many of
                    the other legislators had visited him in his sick room. When the truth became known something akin
                    to panic struck the legislators and there followed a rather hasty and undignified retreat in every
                        direction.23 While in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Colfax was urged to buy the 
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                         Journal which was then for sale. Shortly thereafter he had an opportunity to
                    join Caleb B. Smith and John D. Defrees in purchasing the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette. But, attached to 
                        South Bend
                    , he preferred to remain there.24
            
            The position which Colfax took on the issues growing out of the Mexican War need not be gone into at
                    great length for his position is not surprising. It was what one would expect of a northern Whig. In
                    September, 1845, he thought President Polk's course "judicious and
                    moderate" in the main, and believed war not very likely. Yet he had fears that the
                    President would not be able to withstand the "`spirit of the age'—a
                    spirit of mobs, of bloodspilling, of ravage and of war."25 After war
                    broke out, the tone of the Register editorials changed. Colfax contended that the
                    war was due to the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , and then inconsistently added that if reason had even afterwards been listened to and
                    followed the war could still have been prevented. Now that the 
                        United States
                     was in it, he was for supporting it. But his support was something like that which many
                    northern 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., Dec. 1, 1847, Dec. 17, 1847; Hollister, p. 43.
                  
                     23
                            Register, Dec. 24, 1847, Dec. 31, 1847.
                  
                     24 Hollister, 44.
                  
                     25
                            Register, Sept. 12, 1845.
               
                     Democrats gave the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration in prosecuting the Civil War. Indeed the parallel has ironic similarity.
                    Colfax pursued a course in the first war which he vigorously denounced in the second. Democratic
                    papers turned on the Whigs for their alleged treason. The 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat, for example, asked the following question: "Why have the National Intelligencer, the Tribune and other Whig prints down
                    to their halting echoes, the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Register and the 
                        Kosciusko
                    
                    Republican, arrayed themselves against their country, and hugged their treason to
                    their rotten hearts, until they have become the scorn and contempt of every man who deserves the
                    name of an American citizen?"26 The Democrat speaking
                    later of the Register in particular declared to the editor that "your
                    readers are well aware that your exertions in behalf (of) the Mexican party here, as well as in 
                        Mexico
                    , have met their entire approbation."27 The Register remarked that it would not use such billingsgate in reply but repelled the charge
                    of disloyalty on the part of the Whigs saying "every pulsation of our heart is for our country."28
            
            The columns of the Register reflect the renewed discussion of slavery which came
                    with the war. No one, said the editor, desired more than he to see the day when there would not be a
                    slave in America. "But we constantly notice with sinsere [sic] regret
                    … that the ultra stand taken and ultra measures proposed by citizens of the North, banded
                    together into a political party for this single object (abolishing slavery), are throwing obstacles
                    into the way which it will be difficult, if not impossible, to surmount." He thought the
                    political abolitionists, if sincere, would temper their plans "with moderation instead of
                        ultraism."29
            
            But Colfax was adamant on the further extension of slave territory. The cry of the North, he said,
                    should be: "Not another inch of Slave territory." He praised the House of
                    Representatives which passed the Wilmot Proviso as being true to the impulses of freedom. If the
                    slaveholding states, he held, were girdled with a belt of freedom it would in time mean the death of
                    the "peculiar institution."30
            
            As the presidential campaign approached, the editorials of the Register reflect
                    some indecision on the part of the 
                  
                     26 Quoted in Register, Jan. 22, 1847.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, May 26, 1847.
                  
                     28
                            Register, Jan. 22, 1847.
                  
                     29
                            Register, Apr. 17, 1846.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., Feb. 26, 1847.
               
                     editor as to whether "noble Harry" (
                        Clay
                    ) should be supported or whether some more available candidate ought to be nominated.
                    Colfax had been sure that the country had disgraced itself in 1844 when it refused to elect 
                        Clay
                    , the idol of his heart. But, while 
                        Clay
                    , whose praises the Register could not sound too strongly, was clearly
                    the first choice if he could be elected, Colfax perceived that the Mexican War might be helping the
                    Whigs to solve their nomination problem in 1848. Various favorable articles and editorials about
                    General Taylor were published long before the Whig National Convention of 1848. However, the failure
                    of Taylor to come out in no uncertain terms as a thorough-going Whig cooled Colfax's ardor
                    somewhat as it did that of some others. Some of the friends of Colfax wrote him that Taylor should
                    not be the Whig nominee. John D. Defrees, for example, argued that "Henry 
                        Clay
                     cannot be nominated or elected, and General Zachary Taylor ought not to be, because he
                    will not pledge himself to carry out Whig principles if elected."31
                    Horace Greeley wrote in April, 1848, that 
                        Clay
                     was the man who ought to be nominated. "We cannot with any decency support
                    Taylor. … I cannot bear the thought of Taylor."32
            
            On the eve of the Whig National Convention the Register began to play up General
                    Winfield Scott as a desirable candidate for the nomination. In the convention, to which Colfax was a
                    delegate and one of the secretaries, he supported Scott as against 
                        Clay
                    , Webster and Taylor.33 But, party regular that he was, he did not
                    hesitate, like some of his friends, to support the nominee of the Convention. Since February, 1847,
                    the Register had carried at the head of its editorial page the announcement that
                    it was for the nominees of the Whig National Convention for President and Vice President. It could
                    not well change its position now. The paper was filled with sketches and editorials of the glorious
                    deeds of "Old Rough and Ready" and before long he had grown to the proportions of
                    a great candidate.35 In order to spread still more widely the Whig gospel, the
                    rates of the Register were reduced for the campaign.
            Colfax winced somewhat under charges of supporting a 
                  
                     31 Defrees to Colfax, May 2, 1848, quoted in Don Knight, "Political Career of Schuyler Colfax," 7–8.
                            (Master's thesis at the University of 
                                Chicago
                            ). See also letters of Godlove S. Orth to Colfax, May 9, 1847, Apr. 29, 1848,
                            Orth Mss., Ind. State Library.
                  
                     32 Quoted in Knight, op. cit., 8; see also
                            Hollister, 45.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 52; Register, May 26, 1848.
                  
                     34 See Register, June 16, 1848 and June 23,
                        1848.
               
                     slave-holder for the presidency, particularly one who had not
                    been more pronounced in his Whiggery. But he doubted the sincerity of 
                        Van
                     Buren, the Free Soil candidate, and thought his past was against him. He said Taylor
                    would not veto any anti-slavery legislation.35 Greeley had considerable
                    difficulty in coming out for Taylor. When he did so, Colfax was happy to receive the news. He
                    thought if Greeley could support him, others disappointed in the nomination surely could.36 He appealed to Free Soilers not to waste their votes on 
                        Van
                     Buren.37
            
            Delighted at the outcome of the election, the Register continued to support Taylor
                    while President. When in 1849–1850, Northern Democrats were flirting with Free Soilism
                    the editor termed the latter movement a mere dragnet for Locofocoism.38 Colfax
                    seems to have had confidence that the administration could be trusted in solving the question of
                    slavery in the territories. But when Henry 
                        Clay
                     introduced his compromise resolutions in 1850, this Whig admirer of "Noble
                    Harry" had to announce that 
                        coinciding, as we generally have with their distinguished author in the prominent political
                            actions of his life for many years past, we feel the more regret that we cannot, in this
                            instance, agree with him in the position he has taken. … Whether this glorious
                            Union is, or is not, at last to be wrecked upon the rocks around us—with men of
                            principle, Honor must be preserved. And in our poor judgment, these resolutions are the
                            olive branch to the South but the hyssop to the North.39
                  
                    
            
            One week later the Register was still more decided against the resolutions.40 Some northern Democrats apparently enjoyed the dilemma in which Northern
                    Whigs with free-soil tendencies now found themselves. In an editorial tilt with E.W.H. Ellis of the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat, which now seemed to be more strongly anti-slavery than many northern
                    Whig journals, Colfax accused the former of instability on the slavery question. Ellis stated that
                    such as he was "would be the entire Whig party were it not that they have old Zack, a slave
                    driver of 
                        Louisiana
                    , with three hundred slaves, for 
                  
                     35
                            Register, Aug. 17, 1848. This was a stand taken generally by all northern
                            Whig leaders who were regular.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., Oct. 12, 1848. But Greeley's support of the ticket was
                            only half-hearted. Greeley wrote Colfax in September: "You needn't ask me
                            to do anymore than I am doing for Taylor. I do all I have stomach for. Let him whose
                            digestion is ranker do more." Quoted in Hollister, 53.
                  
                     37
                            Register, Oct. 12, 1848.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., July 12, 1849.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., Feb. 7, 1850.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Feb. 14, 1850.
               
                     President, and Henry 
                        Clay
                    , a slaveholder of 
                        Kentucky
                    , for their dictator, law giver, and master. And so would Schuyler Colfax, if he had
                    nerve enough to express sentiments antagnostic [sic], to those of the `Great
                    Embodiment of Whiggery,' Henry 
                        Clay
                    , or his scintillation, Horace Greeley."41 As already seen,
                    Colfax was now expressing strong dissent from 
                        Clay
                    . And when 
                        Clay
                     saw fit to censure the President for advancing a plan of his own instead of supporting
                    the compromise, the dissent of the Register was still more marked.42
            
            It was in the midst of the struggle over the compromise measures of 1850 that President Taylor died.
                    "At such a crisis as this," said Colfax in the Register,
                    "it is difficult to acquiesce in the will of 
                        Providence
                    ." He thought Fillmore would prove no Tyler but he was nevertheless somewhat
                        disturbed.43 But with the adoption of the compromise measures and in line
                    with the comparative calm which followed, Colfax too expressed moderate sentiments and became for a
                    while pretty much of a "finality Whig."
            In the meantime Colfax was called to serve in a new capacity—that of delegate from his
                    district to the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1850–1851. This body met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 7. For some time before 1850, editorials had appeared in the Register defining the editor's position on constitutional questions. He thought
                    the time a good one inasmuch as party strife was not then strong. "There is a happier era
                    of Toleration commenced." No "party will strive to engraft its ultraisms upon
                        it."44 He advocated a non-partisan convention including a
                    non-partisan election of delegates but was defeated in this respect.45
            
            He issued a circular on constitutional reform stating it was his duty to present his views in order
                    that the people might know his position. In it he noted that although his plan for a non-partisan
                    convention was not adopted he promised nevertheless to recognize its spirit. He was of the opinion
                    that the constitution should be brief—"an instrument of principles rather than
                    of laws." In order to protect the family and unfortunate debtors, homesteads, he held,
                    should be exempt from seizure. Judges, as well as other officials, should 
                  
                     41 Quoted in Register, Feb. 21, 1850.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., June 6, 1850.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., June 11, 1850.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., Feb. 15, 1849.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., Apr. 18, 1850.
               
                     be elected. As to state debts he thought the sad experience of
                    the state had taught it that no debt should be incurred without a vote of the people. He was opposed
                    to the doctrine of "no banks," but he was not in favor of giving exclusive banking
                    privileges to one institution. He was, rather, in favor of free banks. The grand jury ought to be
                    retained, he held. He was opposed to granting the right of suffrage to negroes, largely on grounds
                    of expediency, it seems. He was opposed also to forcibly exiling them. Elimination of the
                    "jargons" and "technicalities" of the laws of the state was also
                    favored. "I am in favor of Temperance, and expect to remain so through life," he
                    stated. But he was not in favor of a constitutional provision relative to the policy. Finally, he
                    was in favor of provisions declaring for no slavery, no imprisonment for debt, and no divorces by
                    the legislature. He promised to endeavor, if elected, to justify the confidence placed in him and to
                    "restore your trust to you unsullied."46
                    
                        St. Joseph
                     County must have been satisfied with the position outlined in the circular and in the
                        Register; for the editor was successful in his rather brief canvass.
            When Colfax arrived at the Capital he reported in his editorial correspondence that Democrats were in
                    control by a large majority. Whigs could not even get one assistant doorkeeper appointed, and
                    "There is not the remotest taint of Whiggery in any of the officers from the President to
                    the fireman." To him the political emphasis on things did not augur well for future
                        deliberations.47
            
            One of the youngest members of the convention, Colfax took an active part in its work and showed
                    considerable ability as a debater and parliamentarian. He was appointed on the Committees on
                    Currency and Banking and on Public Institutions of the State.48 One of the
                    subjects in which Colfax interested himself and on which he debated was that of the rights of
                    negroes. He favored submitting to the people for a separate vote the question whether negroes should
                    be given the right of suffrage. He was willing to let the people decide the issue though he, for
                    reasons satisfactory to himself, would not vote in favor of such a proposition. He thought, too,
                    this 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., July 4, 1850.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., Oct. 17, 1850. Many interesting statistics and side lights are
                            given in this editorial correspondence, as is usually the case.
                  
                     48
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention, I, 38 (Hereafter
                            referred to as Debates).
               
                     might gain some friends for the constitution.49 The proposal was obviously unpopular. But the author of it stated that he had learned
                    "to follow where-ever duty leads, regardless of what may be the temporary verdict upon the
                    question, and I shall not shrink here or now from any responsibility I have assumed." The
                    suffrage referendum proposal was voted down by 62 to 6050
            
            The proposal to keep free negroes from coming into the state likewise brought forth some oratorical
                    flights on the part of Colfax: "Mr. President, do as we may here, our action is not final.
                    Sooner or later this case will receive a fairer hearing, and calmer consideration at the bar of
                    public opinion. That judgment if we would we cannot escape."51 He would
                    oppose injustice anywhere whether it emanted from a despot or "from a popular majority
                    which has become lost to sense of right."52 In his editorial
                    correspondence he reported that on this question the delegates from the northern tier of counties,
                    regardless of party, voted but one way.53 His views sounded like a rather far
                    cry for that day, but they were nearer fulfillment than was realized at the time.
            Exempting homesteads from foreclosure proceedings was another proposal which Colfax warmly defended.
                    In his plea for taking care of the poor because "they have a special claim upon us for our
                    protection" he sounded distinctly modern. The arguments of those who opposed this sounded
                    very much like those used to-day by our alleged reactionaries.54
            
            One of the subjects on which the Convention had difficulty in agreeing was that of banking. There
                    were state-bank men, free-bank men and no-bank men. After many efforts Colfax had the satisfaction
                    of contributing considerable in the way of proposing compromise measures which a sufficient number
                    could agree on to adopt. The State Journal remarked that "to have been
                    the pacificator of this important measure is certainly creditable to Mr. Colfax, and is evidence of
                    his high standing and influence in the convention."55
            
            In assessing the work of the Convention, Colfax concluded there were some things that he would have
                    preferred 
                  
                     49
                            Debates, I, 228–30.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., I, 240–2, 253–4.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., I, 455–8.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., I, 616–17.
                  
                     53
                            Register, Nov. 21, 1850.
                  
                     54 For his speech on this subject, see Debates, I,
                            747–753.
                  
                     55 Moore, Life of Colfax, 50. See also Debates, II, 1524, 1621.
               
                     to leave out of the Constitution and some things that he would
                    have put in; but on the whole "we look upon it as a valuable Constitution." He
                    would vote cheerfully for its adoption.56
            
            Scarcely had Colfax gotten back to his regular editorial duties when he again had extraneous
                    interests to look after. Indeed while in the convention, the question had been broached. A number of
                    his friends suggested that he ought to run for Congress in 1851. In a "strictly, sacredly
                    confidential" letter to a friend in 
                        South Bend
                     he asked for advice, and weighed the pros and cons. In favor of it, he thought the
                    position "very honorable" and regarded the pay as "comfortable
                        withal."57 Though he wrote in the Register on May
                    1 that the Whig candidate is not as yet agreed upon, he must have had a pretty good idea who he
                    would be, for on May 28, 1851, the district convention nominated him unanimously and praised him for
                    not being an extremist. The resolutions passed admitted that there was a difference among Whigs on
                    the compromise measures of 1850 though all were for obedience to law, and were for carrying them out
                    until "Time and Experience shall show that a Change or Modification of them is necessary to
                    avoid evasion or abuse."58
            
            Dr. Graham N. Fitch, then representing the district, was nominated by the Democrats. While the odds
                    seemed against Colfax, he entered vigorously into the canvass, engaging in joint debates with his
                    opponent. Thinking that "propriety, as well as necessity" required that he retire
                    from the editorship of the Register during the canvass, Mr. James Davis again
                    became acting-editor.
            The differences between the two candidates on the issues of the day were not great. Both parties in
                    the district and both candidates seem to have been influenced by the current emphasis on the
                    finality of the compromise measures as the solution of the slavery issue. A local Anti-Slavery and
                    Free-Soil convention addressed letters to both Colfax and Fitch on the slavery question and received
                    similar replies. Colfax said he could not close his eyes to the right of the southern master to
                    recapture his slave. The Fugitive Slave Law might be unnecessarily harsh but he could not pledge
                    himself to 
                  
                     56
                            Register, Feb. 13, 1851.
                  
                     57 Colfax to "friend" at 
                                South Bend
                            , Nov. 6, 1850, Heaton Collection, Northern Ind. Hist. Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            .
                  
                     58
                            Register, June 5, 1851.
               
                     work for the repeal of the law. He hoped that in consequence of
                    judicial decisions the western territories would be free without the necessity of legislation.59 In short his position in this period was indeed very moderate. That of Fitch,
                    who in 1849 had, it was said, "out-free-soiled" the Free-Soilers in order to get
                    their votes, was similarly moderate.60 The answers of these candidates were not
                    satisfactory to the Free-Soilers. One opposition editor in the district remarked that the Whigs
                    "pretty much `go the whole hog' on the subject of Fugitiveism and
                        Fillmoreism."61
            
            This same editor, Ellis of 
                        Goshen
                    , twitted the Whig candidate on his youth saying he had better "tarry at
                    Jericho `till his beard grows."62 In one of the first debates with
                    Colfax, Dr. Fitch likewise, it is said, cast aspersion upon Colfax's youth repeating the
                    jibe about tarrying at Jericho. Amid derisive shouts of laughter Fitch retired and Colfax came
                    forward to speak. After looking over the audience he made this retort: "I was not aware, my
                    fellow-citizens, that brass and beard were necessary qualifications of a Congressman. If, in your
                    judgment, it is so, I must renounce all hopes of your votes, as I confess, what you cannot but see,
                    that my competitor has a superabundance of both." On one occasion, Fitch attempted to
                    incite prejudice against his opponent by reminding the audience of Colfax's position in the
                    constitutional convention on the rights of negroes, though it seems there had been an agreement not
                    to mention these matters.63 Colfax in turn mentioned his understanding of the
                    agreement and added that those were his conscientious convictions which he would not give up for a
                    seat in Congress.64
            
            On the eve of the election, the Register remarked that "no great party
                    issues have been or could be made in this contest, and the election will and must turn on a choice
                    between men."65 The choice was Dr. Fitch, though only by about 200
                    majority. Colfax attributed his defeat to "illegal voting in the Rail Road Counties, and
                    Whig defection in the County of our competitor."66 It seems too that
                    President 
                  
                     59
                            Register, July 3, 1851.
                  
                     60
                            Register, June 1, 1851, taken from the LaPorte Whig; see also Register, July 3, 1851.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, June 4, 1851.
                  
                            62
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     63 Hollister, 63; Moore, op. cit., 53–4.
                  
                     64 Henry Wilson, The Rise and Fall of the Slave
                            Power (
                                Boston
                            , 1872), II, 186.
                  
                     65 July 31, 1851.
                  
                     66
                            Register, Oct. 23, 1851.
               
                     Fillmore, for some reason or other, was not very friendly
                    toward the candidacy of Colfax and was not greatly disappointed in the re-election of Dr. Fitch.67
            
            In the fall of this same year Colfax was engaged in still another activity outside the journalistic
                    field. Having been an active member of the Odd Fellows fraternal order for some years, he became a
                    leading spirit in the establishing of the Degree of Rebekah, ladies' auxiliary of the
                    order. At the session of the Grand Lodge of the 
                        United States
                     in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1850, Colfax was appointed chairman of a committee to consider the matter and report
                    at the next meeting. He had previously suggested the idea of a Ladies'
                    Degree. A majority of the committee was opposed, but the next Grand Lodge adopted the minority
                    report which he made. In the words of one writer, the report "was suggested and originated
                    by Schuyler Colfax … by whom also it was written."68
                    "Brother Colfax deserves, as he has received, the sincere thanks of the Fraternity, for
                    this ornament to the building which our fathers framed."69
            
            In the meantime, the Whig editor of the Register took an early interest in the
                    presidential campaign of 1852. In February of 1851, noting that Indiana Democrats were pushing the
                    presidential fortunes of General Joseph Lane, he reported that the Whigs "believe that the
                    only Lane that is to be President, is old Lundy's Lane, and they have, with a more entire
                    unanimity, "nominated Gen. Scott." Because of Scott's victories
                    "on the frozen soil of 
                        Canada
                     as on the burning plains of 
                        Mexico
                    ," this young Whig editor thought he heard the call strong and clear from every
                    section of the Union to elevate another warrior-statesman to the Presidency.70
            
            As in 1848, Colfax was a delegate to the Whig National Convention. He believed Scott to be safe on
                    the slavery issue, and thought that he would not make devotion to the Compromise of 1850 a
                    shibboleth of party faith.71 He held that Scott should not be pinned down with
                    controversial issues but should be taken on faith as Taylor was four years 
                  
                     67 Colfax to Fillmore, July 16, 1852, Colfax, Mss., Library of
                            Congress.
                  
                     68 Paschal Donaldson, The Odd-Fellows 
                                    Text
                                 Book, p. 213, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1852.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., p. 12 (Introduction); see also Register for Sept.
                            25, 1851 and May 20, 1852.
                  
                     70
                            Register, Feb. 6, 1851, March 13, 1851.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., Apr. 1, 1852.
               
                     before.72. For a young man, Colfax
                    apparently played quite a leading part in getting Scott nominated. On one point of strategy, he
                    differed with William H. Seward and the other members of the 
                        New York
                     degelation. The idea of Colfax was that Scott's letter on the compromise which
                    had been prepared and which was to be given in accepting the nomination should be read first in
                    order to attract some Southern voters.73 He seemed to have been right in this as
                    no delegate south of 
                        Delaware
                     came to Scott's support until the letter was read, Scott finally being
                    nominated on the fifty-third ballot. The Whig platform endorsed the compromise measures of 1850 as
                    did that of the Democratic party.74
            
            Colfax was active in the campaign. He tried to make the platform as palatable as possible and
                    contended that in any case the North got what was more valuable than the platform, namely, the candidate. The price of the Register for the campaign was again
                    reduced. All the battles Scott ever engaged in were again re-fought in the pages of the Register and gloriously won. He was vigorously defended against all charges including
                    those that said he was a Catholic and that he was a nativist. The Whigs went down in defeat in that
                    election and were never, as events proved, to rise again. Possibly sensing defeat, and remembering
                    the coolness of the President towards him, as evidenced again by a recent removal of his father from
                    the postmastership of 
                        South Bend
                    , Colfax turned down a nomination as the Whig candidate for the House of
                        Representatives.75 The Whigs nominated Horace P. Biddle who was defeated.
            The defeat of Scott was, of course, a keen disappointment to the zealous Whig editor of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Register. He spoke with some bitterness about the conduct of certain Whigs,
                    including a number of the friends of the late Daniel Webster's, who voted for Pierce rather
                    than for Scott. To his subscribers he announced that "the Register will,
                    we need scarcely say, remain Whig to the backbone. … We shall stand by the Whig banner to
                    the last. We shall uphold and defend Whig principles. … "76
                    Others might talk of the end of the Whig party, but not Colfax. "We dissent, in the
                    furthest 
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., Apr. 29, 1852.
                  
                     73 Colfax to Mrs. Colfax, June 15, 1852, quoted in Hollister, 67.
                  
                     74
                            Register, June 24, 1852; Hollister, pp. 66, 68. Colfax voted against
                            adoption.
                  
                     75 W. H. Seward to Colfax, July 31, 1852 and Colfax to Fillmore, July
                            16, 1852. Colfax Mss., Ind. St. Library.
                  
                     76
                            Register, Nov. 4, 1852.
               
                     degree," he wrote in December, "from those in
                    our ranks who since the defeat last month, speak of the Whig party as `Dead'. …
                    " He especially regretted seeing the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune taking that stand. The party had passed through more bitter reverses and
                    had come back. It would do so again, so he thought.77
            
            Confident in this hope, Colfax preceeded with his journalistic efforts, putting forth an effort to
                    build a better and still larger Register. This he did in 1853. He installed a
                    power press, the first in the state outside of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it was said. This journal was now declared to be the largest paper in the state. Its
                    circulation was the largest of any paper in Northern Indiana. The prospectus stated that no new
                    pledges need be given as to its course. Its promise is in its past record. "We have made
                    our paper the reflex of our heart. It will relax not one jot in its attachment to its old
                        faith."78
            
            Writing in August, 1853, Colfax referred to the "political calm which happily
                        prevails."79 In November an editorial stated "the Whigs
                    are cool, calm, composed—confident that all things will work together correctly for their
                    success in 1856."80 Little did the editor realize that a political
                    storm was impending. The 
                        Washington
                     correspondent of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune reported on January 24, 1854 as follows: "It begins to be thought
                    that if Douglas's 
                        Nebraska
                     bill is pushed in its present shape it will blow all concerned sky high, and that those
                    from the North who vote for it will have leave to stay at home and hoe cabbages."81 The struggle over the 
                        Nebraska
                     bill aroused in Colfax a more combative spirit than he had thus far manifested. He
                    charged that Douglas had made a "shameful bid for the Presidency" when he violated
                    the sacred compact of 1820. "Whatever others may do, when Congress, seduced by Executive
                    patronage, trammeled by political dictation, forgetful of plighted faith, passes this bill, we
                    enlist under the banner of Repeal. Whether successful or defeated, we will go, with the opponents of
                    this bill, before the People, on an appeal to them from the recreancy 
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., Dec. 23, 1852.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., July 14, 1853; Aug. 11, 1853; Colfax to Darling, Feb. 28, 1853,
                            Colfax Mss., North. Ind. Hist. Museum.
                  
                     79 Aug. 11.
                  
                     80 Nov. 3.
                  
                     81 Quoted in Register, Feb. 2, 1854.
               
                     of their Representatives."82 To
                    what extent Colfax was seriously and sincerely distributed by the new turn of affairs as a result of
                    passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill and to what extent he saw the possibility of advancement through this new
                    troubling of the political waters may never be known. Suffice it to say that he became active in the
                    formation of the New People's Party in Indiana, which in a year or two was to become known
                    as the Republican Party. Moderation and the "finality" emphasis were now
                    forgotten. Party regular that he was, he now called for "An Union of Freeman
                        For The Sake of Freedom." All other issues, which need not be given up
                    necessarily, must be subordinated to this one.83 He wrote to a friend that
                    "Whatever else may be our duty in the future, as 
                        Butler
                     said at the great 
                        New York
                     meeting last week, the North should remember to expunge the expungers."84
            
            Suffice it to say, in regard to 1854, that Colfax was selected by the Whigs of his district to run
                    for the House of Representatives. The great issue to Colfax was of course the application of the
                    Wilmot Proviso principle—the necessity of stopping the aggression of the slavocracy. His
                    opponent, Dr. 
                        Norman
                     Eddy, the sitting member of Congress, was fighting an up-hill battle. On his way home
                    from 
                        Washington
                     after the adjournment of Congress, he is said to have repined to a friend:
                    "Well, I am going home, and a pretty fix I am in!!"85 Placed
                    on the defensive for his vote for the 
                        Nebraska
                     bill, he was defending what was, to the majority of people of the Ninth district,
                    indefensible. Temperance, Know-Nothingism, and anti-Mormonism were minor issues in the campaign. The
                    tidal wave of Anti-Nebraskaism swept Colfax into office by a large majority.86
            
            In the following winter and summer, he continued his editorial duties except for the times when he
                    was away from home. Through the Register and on the stump he continued to take an
                    active part in the organization of the new party. While getting his bearings in the new party
                    alignment, he seems to have floundered for a brief period in the morass 
                  
                     82
                            Register, Feb. 16, 1854.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., June 15, 1854.
                  
                     84 Colfax to Kline Shryock, May 23, 1854, Colfax Mss., 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Library.
                  
                     85 Quoted in Hollister, p. 76.
                  
                     86
                            Register. Nov. 9, 1854. The majority was 1,766.
               
                     of Know-Nothingism.87 In November of 1855,
                    Colfax turned his editorial duties over to Mr. Alfred Wheeler, who, a few years later, purchased the
                        Register.
               88
            
            Upon receipt of the news of Colfax's victory in the election of 1854, the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat, remembering the jibe about Colfax's youth when running for
                    Congress in 1851, now remarked: "He tarries now no longer at Jericho."89 And so it was. While 
                        South Bend
                     remained his home, 
                        Washington
                     was to be the scene of his labors which continued through the stormy days of the Civil
                    War and reconstruction.
            
               
                  87
                        Register, June 21, 1855; Carl F. Brand, "History of the Know-Nothing
                        Party in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (June, 1922), XVIII,
                        187–197.
               
                  88 A copy of the agreement between Colfax and Wheeler is in Colfax Mss.,
                        North, Ind. Hist, Museum. See also Register for Nov. 22, 1855; also see
                        letters of Colfax to Wheeler Apr. 5, and Apr. 11, 1855, Colfax Mss., Library of Congress.
               
                  89 Oct. 11, 1854.
            
         
         
         
            A Forgotten Man of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
               *
            
            EMMETT A. RICE
            
            In the Spring of 1937, it was the writer's good fortune to be appointed to investigate the
                    rumor that there was a lot for destitute teachers in Crown Hill Cemetery in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After checking a single reference, he was quite sure that such a burial ground had at
                    one time existed. On arriving at the cemetery office he presented the following inquiry:
                    "Can you tell me, Mr. Myers, whether you have a lot, a very old one, perhaps, called a lot
                    for destitute teachers and designated on the books as `Lot 30, Section 3?'" Mr.
                    Myers replied that he did not know personally of such a lot, but evidently the old records would
                    give the desired information.
            There it was, top the page, "A Lot for the Destitute Teachers of the Public
                    Schools." Below the title was a diagram of the plot, with the graves outlined and numbered.
                    Spaces were provided for twelve graves, seven of which were occupied. Below the diagram on the same
                    page was a list of those who were buried there: 
                  Ella P. Coffin, 1874.
                  Anna M. Tyler (sister), 1874
                  Alexander Ralston, 1874.
                  John B. Dillon, 1879.
                  George McKinney, 1889.
                  William Lentz, 1889.
                  Catherine Messing, 1891.
               
            
            "Alexander Ralston," exclaimed the author, "what is he doing on a lot for
                    destitute teachers? The man who designed and surveyed the downtown district of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was neither a teacher nor was he destitute. And neither was John B. Dillon, one of
                    the city's early attorneys and a worthy historian." Mr. Myers was as nonplussed as
                    the questioner and rapidly became equally interested. He proposed a drive to the location. There
                    were the graves, all marked with a variety of stones, bearing names and dates, except one, the grave
                    of Alexander Ralston. No stick or stone marked his resting place—there was only the
                    outline of a grave in the green sod.
            John B. Dillon has a large stone monument which is ten feet high and six feet square at the base.
                    Such a marker on a lot for the destitute adds a bit of incongruity to the scene. Question after
                    question came to mind. "How does the designer 
                  
                     * This paper was read before one of the sessions of the
                            Indiana History Conference held at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Dec. 10–11, 1937.
               
                     of a great city happen to be here? Why has he no head stone to
                    mark his grave? And John B. Dillon, attorney, historian, poet, editor of Farm and
                    Shop, five years Secretary of the State Board of Agriculture, Assistant Secretary of State,
                    clerk in the Department of the Interior at 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., etc.—how does he happen to be here? And last but not least, who are
                    these other people? How does there happen to be a lot for destitute teachers? When was there such
                    need? Who, if anyone, beside the cemetery association, furnished the ground?"
            The writer took up the question of the identity of each of the persons buried on the lot. This work
                    required a study of the Crown Hill records, the city papers in the state library, teachers'
                    directories at the main school office, the city directories at the city library, the funeral records
                    at the Kregelo-Bailey undertaking establishment, and the proceedings of the Common Council of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The cemetery records show that Ella P. Coffin died May 30, 1870, at the age of
                    twenty-three. The date of her burial in Crown Hill was April 18, 1874. On that same date her sister,
                    Anna M. Tyler, was laid beside her. She too had been dead for quite a period—since August
                    11, 1870. She was twenty-seven years of age at the time of her death. An examination of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal for the dates of these deaths revealed the following item: 
                        Ella P. Coffin, a principle [sic] teacher of the 4th ward, died yesterday
                            at 10:00 o'clock. Funeral services at home Wednesday, 262 North East Street.
                    
            
            Though this was a meager bit of information, it was very significant, because Ella Coffin and her
                    sister were the first to be placed on the lot, and the former, was a teacher in the city schools.
                    The fact that she was not buried there until four years after her death would indicate that she and
                    her relatives were without the means to be independent in the matter of burial. Furthermore, a note
                    on the funeral record at Crown Hill showed that Mr. A. C. Shortridge, then Superintendent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Schools, paid $16.00 for the burial of the two sisters.
            Work on the identification of the others continued. The cemetery records and the books of the
                    Kregelo-Bailey undertaking establishment showed that George McKinney died on September 3, 1889; was
                    buried September 5, 1889; died at  the age of thirty of liver
                    trouble; and that a Dr. Wood-burn was the attending physician. Mr. Kregelo, as undertaker, paid the
                    cemetery $15.00, and was reimbursed by an equal amount by Mrs. McKinney and a C. J.
                    Linton. The vital statistics of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel confirmed these dates, but no further mention was made of the death in
                    the papers. The name of George McKinney was not found in the teachers' directory for any
                    year of the 1880's.
            Records showed that William Lentz, a bachelor, died of tuberculosis October 4, 1889, and was buried
                    two days later in the lot for destitute teachers. He was thirty-three at the time of his death. His
                    name did not appear in the teachers' directories.
            The other occupant unknown to the investigator was Catherine Messing. Records revealed that Mrs.
                    Messing died January 23, 1891, and was buried on January 26. As in the cases above, Dr. Woodburn was
                    the physician, Kregelo the undertaker. In each case the undertaker paid the cemetery association
                    $15 and was reimbursed by friends or relatives. As in the case of the foregoing,
                    Catherine Messing's name was not to be found in the directory of teachers.
            The city directories for the 1880's settled the question of the occupations of George
                    McKinney, William Lentz, and Catherine Messing. All were listed as mechanics or laborers. No record
                    was found which might explain why they were buried in the lot for destitute teachers.
            Beginning the study of the life of John B. Dillon, the father of Indiana history, an abundance of
                    information was found.1 Mr. Dillon was born in western 
                        Virginia
                     in 1807 and moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1824. He soon secured employment on the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, and it was there that his literary ventures began. In 1834, he moved to 
                        Logansport
                     where he read law, and where he was admitted to the bar. His retiring and shy
                    disposition made him entirely unfitted for that profession; and he devoted himself to historical
                    research and literary pursuits, while at the same time trying to maintain, half heartedly, a law
                    practice. No man was ever better suited to the work for which he is best remembered, namely
                    painstaking research. He was always embarrassed at social functions, 
                  
                     1 George S. Cottman, "John 
                                Brown
                             Dillon," Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1905),
                            I, 4–8; General John Coburn, "Life and Services of John B.
                            Dillon." Indiana Historical Society Publications, II (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1886), 39–56: Horace P. Biddle, "Notes on John B.
                            Dillon," ibid., 56.
               
                     and preferred the dryest book to the company of men and women.
                    Mr. Dillon never married and had no relatives in this part of the country.
            From original manuscripts, letters, state papers, and the reminiscences of old settlers, he pieced
                    together the history of early Indiana. It is fortunate for the later historians that he did so,
                    while the information was still to be obtained. However, as Logan Esarey has expressed it,2 he was such an antiquarian that he never got beyond the territorial times.
            Mr. Dillon's books had no sale value, and he was always faced with poverty. His friends
                    managed to keep him in minor political offices from which he received some remuneration. He lived in
                    a poorly furnished room near the top of the old Johnson Block (
                        Indianapolis
                    ), in the vicinity of which he was a familiar figure. He wore a silk hat, frock coat,
                    and thick dark glasses in six-sided frames.
            John B. Dillon died January 27, 1879. The Indiana State Sentinel and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of January 30, 1879, bear accounts of the funeral arrangements which
                    record the removal of the remains from the Kregelo establishment to the home of the Hon. John Coburn
                    and from there to the Second Presbyterian Church of which Mr. Dillon was a staunch member.
            Mr. Dillon's remains were interred in the lot for destitute teachers in Crown Hill Cemetery.
                    In later years his friends remembered his sterling worth and erected a monument to his memory.
                    George S. Cottman epitomizes the life of this man as follows. "Forty years of honest
                    conscientious devotion; four books that people would not buy, and death in a lonely garret, face to
                    face with grim poverty, because he wrought for the love of truth and not for dollars—this
                    is the life story of John B. Dillon."3
            
            Seeing in the long unmarked grave of Alexander Ralston an opportunity for civic service, the writer
                    was pleased to be able to interest the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Teachers' Federation in the proposal that they mark the grave of the designer
                    of downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Wishing to know more of the life of Ralston before any definite action should be
                    taken, the following story was pieced together.
            Alexander Ralston, a young Scotch engineer, migrated 
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana from its Exploration
                                to 1922, II, 1130.
                  
                     3 Cottman, "John 
                                Brown
                             Dillon," loc. cit., 8.
               
                     to America in time to assist eccentric Pierre Charles
                    L'Enfant in the laying out of the new capital, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. Mindful of the beauties of the royal city of 
                  Versailles, France
               , L'Enfant
                    incorporated its radiating avenues in his plans for the new national city on the Potomac. The work
                    of turning the farm lands into a capital began in 1791. Because of L'Enfant's
                    quarrels with the commissioners, President 
                        Washington
                     relieved him of his duties in February, 1792, but records show that Ralston was a
                    member of the engineering and survey staff as late as 1794.4
            
            After his work at 
                        Washington
                     was completed, Ralston was attracted to the Ohio River Valley
                    because of its rapid and promising development. He was living in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1806 at the time when the little understood schemes of Aaron Burr were in the air.
                    While Burr was president of the Senate, in the fall of 1804, one General Benjamin Hovey of 
                        New York
                    , appeared to petition congress for the construction of a canal around the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     near 
                        Louisville
                    . Burr became quite interested in the project and at the close of the session came to
                    the West, presumably to inspect the canal site.
            Governor William Henry Harrison called a meeting of the legislative assembly of Indiana Territory at 
                        Vincennes
                     on June 29, 1805. In this session a law was passed creating the Indiana Canal Company,
                    the purpose of which was to construct the much discussed canal around the Ohio
                    River Falls. The company was capitalized at 20,000 shares of $50 each and was
                    to have a board of twelve directors. The first list of directors included the names of George Clark,
                    Aaron Burr, Benjamin Hovey, and Davis Floyd.5 The waterway was never built, but
                    a bank of issue to finance the undertaking was established which had possibilities of financial gain
                    to its directors and also opened ways and means of swindling the public.
            Two of the directors, Davis Floyd and Aaron Burr, saw much of each other and Burr disclosed to Floyd
                    his plan for the invasion of 
                        Mexico
                    . In fact he secured the services of the latter as manager of the project of the
                    settlement of the valley of the Washita (Ouachita) River in 
                        Arkansas
                    .
            Floyd enlisted about thiry men as colonists or for whatever 
                  
                     4 Wilhelmus B. Bryan, A History of the National Capital
                                from its Foundation Through The Period of the Adoption of the Organic Act (
                                New York
                             1914), I, 240.
                  
                     5 Isaac J. Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in
                                Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (December, 1929), XXV, 265.
               
                     ever work Burr had in mind. One Robert Pryor6 of Sheppardsville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , said that Floyd hired him and others for $12.50 per month and a promise of
                    150 acres of land at the end of a year's service. Pryor said further that he left 
                        Louisville
                     on December 12, 1806, in Floyd's boat, and that the boat's company
                    included Alexander Ralston and about twenty others.7
            
            It was not safe for the expedition to come too near Natchez, so the flotilla stopped about thirty
                    miles above that settlement. Burr selected Davis Floyd and Alexander Ralston to proceed down the
                    river in a light boat so that he might learn exactly what had happened. These two scouts spent the
                    night of January 11, 1807, with a Dr. John F. Carmichael8 near Fort Adams. Dr.
                    Carmichael later testified that Ralston revealed to him that the expedition was directed against
                    Spanish possessions, but Ralston later denied giving such information.
            Floyd and Ralston learned from Dr. Carmichael that General Wilkinson was preparing to resist any
                    military expedition coming near 
                        New Orleans
                    . The two scouts returned to their discouraged leader. Burr held a series of conferences
                    with the territorial authorities and was given a grand jury hearing. He and his lieutenants
                    testified that they were concerned only with the colonization of the Washita River district, and
                    were not indicted.9 However, Judge Harry Toulmin, of the Circuit Court of 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Mississippi
                    , was not satisfied with the proceedings and issued a warrant for the arrest of Burr,
                    Blennerhassett, Floyd, and Ralston.10 Fearing abduction by Wilkinson's
                    men, Burr ordered his associates to dispose of the boats and provisions and divide the proceeds
                    among themselves. Burr fled in disguise, but was arrested as he sought to escape into West 
                        Florida
                     and was sent to 
                  Richmond, vau
               , for trial. Blennerhassett was committed to
                    the same court for a hearing. Ralston wanted to be tried in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Floyd in Indiana Territory. Judge Toulmin, however, committed them for trial in
                        
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 271–272.
                  
                     7 Alexander Ralston's part in the Burr expedition may be
                            traced in the "Trial of Aaron Burr," American State
                            Papers, I, Misc., 520, 522, 524, 564, 568, 593.
                  
                     8 Gen. James E. Wilkinson, Memoirs of My Own Times (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1816). See for Deposition of Dr. Carmichael, II, Appendix,
                            Ixxxv.
                  
                     9 Charles B. Galloway, "Aaron Burr in 
                                Mississippi
                            ," Publications of the Mississipp: Historical
                            Society, X, 242.
                  
                     10 Samuel H. Wandell and Meade Minnigerode, Aaron
                            Burr (
                                New York
                            , 1925), 167.
               
                    
                    
                        Mississippi
                     because of the fact that the chief evidence against them was the testimony that might
                    be given by Dr. Car-michael. General Wilkinson was anxious that they should not go free and urged
                    that they be tried by a federal court.
            Indictments were returned against Floyd and Ralston in 
                        Mississippi
                    .11 Trial was to take place in the fall of 1807. Before that time,
                    Floyd and Ralston had left the jurisdiction of the court. By the time of the trial of Burr, his
                    lieutenants were listed as witnesses against him with the understanding that they themselves were
                    not to be placed on trial. However, the subpenas reached them too late to attend, had they cared to
                    do so.12 The absence of Floyd and Ralston as witnesses for the 
                        United States
                     no doubt made it easier to secure an acquittal for the chief conspirator.
            Davis Floyd was tried in the territorial court of Indiana for his part in the fiasco, was convicted,
                    sentenced to three hours in jail, and given a fine of twenty dollars.13 He was
                    convicted on his own confession, the evidence in which showed that the expedition was against 
                        Mexico
                     and 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , and that he believed it had the approval of the government. Floyd was the only person
                    connected with the Burr affair who was tried and convicted of conspiracy against the welfare of the
                    nation.
            When historians who have studied the Burr conspiracy disagree so thoroughly concerning the objectives
                    of his expedition, the question of the motives behind Ralston's participation presents even
                    greater difficulties. Admirers of Alexander Ralston have said that his connection with the Burr
                    fiasco was merely that of a surveyor, employed for the purpose of surveying the Bastrop Lands on the
                    Washita River.14 At any rate, neither Ralston nor any other colleague of Burr
                    experienced much embarrassment later as a result of participation in his venture. The court records
                    at Corydon show that Alexander Ralston served on a jury in a dueling case in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, in 1814, and records at 
                        Salem
                     show that he was a citizen of 
                        Washington
                     County in 1818.
            By the act of the Indiana Legislature of January 11, 1820, ten commissioners were appointed to select
                    a site for the new 
                  
                     11 Walter Flavius McCalab, The Aaron Burr Conspiracy (
                                New York
                            . 1903), 282.
                  
                     12
                            Trial of Aaron Burr for Treason (printed from Shorthand report of the
                            trial, New York 1875), I, 397.
                  
                     13 Isaac J. Cox, "The Burr Conspiracy in Indiana,"
                                loc. cit., 277.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 13, 1904.
               
                     capital of Indiana. After some investigation, on May 27, 1820,
                    they chose the site at the junction of 
                        Fall Creek
                     and the West Fork of the White River. The legislature ratified their selection on
                    January 6, 1821, and appointed three commissioners to lay out the city. The appointees were James W.
                    Jones, Samuel P. Booker and Christopher Harrison. The resolution provided that the commissioners
                    should meet on the site the first Monday in April and plan the town on "such lines as they
                    conceive will be advantageous to the state and to the prosperity of such town, having specially in
                    view the health, utility, and beauty of the place." Christopher Harrison of 
                        Salem
                     came alone to the appointed place and selected Alexander Ralston, his fellow townsman,
                    and Elias Pym Fordham, of 
                        Illinois
                    , to survey and plan the new city.
            Statements made by contemporaries of Ralston indicate that he was largely responsible for the plan of
                    present downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There is considerable evidence to support this view and careful historians refer to
                    the plan as the "Ralston plat".15 The perfect geometric
                    symmetry of his "mile square" with its circle and radiating avenues show the
                    influence of his experience in surveying the capital of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Ralston thought that to plat an area of one square mile would be sufficient for the time. This area
                    was bounded by East, West, North and South Streets, although he did not name these streets on his
                    plan. With few exceptions the interior of the "mile square" is exactly as it was
                    on the Ralston plat of 1821. This plat provided for a municipal recreation park along
                    Pogue's Run, bounded on the north by 
                        North Carolina
                     Street and on the south by 
                        South Carolina
                     Street It is apparent that the growing metropolis could not long permit a park of that
                    size to stand in the way of its industrial development, and it was soon intersected by streets and
                    railroads. In 1894, the city council changed Ralston's names for 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     Streets to Senate Avenue and Capitol Avenue, respectively.
            Great credit is due the foresight of the designer of the "mile square" that he
                    platted the streets ninety feet wide with the exception of 
                        Washington
                     which is one hundred twenty feet wide. Credit is due the contemporaries who permitted
                        
                  
                     15 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), 1, 30. See for reproduction of original plat.
               
                     him to plan such wide streets in view of the mud and stumps
                    through which they would have to find their way at the crossings. It is only outside the area
                    designed by Ralston that one finds narrow streets, "one side" parking and
                    dangerous jogs. Ralston provided that each block not intersected by an avenue should be cut by
                    alleys, fifteen to thirty feet wide. These alleys are of course indispensable to the delivery
                    service of the commercial center of the city.
            Ralston lived on the north side of 
                        Maryland
                     Street near 
                        Tennessee
                     almost continuously until his death on January 5, 1827. His obituary was printed in the
                        Indiana Journal of January 9: 
                        
                     Died—In this place, on Friday the 5th inst. Alexander Ralston, Esq., aged 56 years. Mr. R. was a native of 
                                Scotland
                            , but emigrated early in life to America. He lived many years at the city of 
                                Washington
                            , then at 
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., afterwards near 
                                Salem
                             in this state, and for the last five years in this place. His earliest and
                            latest occupation in the 
                                United States
                             was surveying, in which he was long employed by the Government, at 
                                Washington
                            , and his removal to this place was occasioned by his appointment to make the
                            original survey of it. In the latter part of his life he was our county surveyor, and his
                            leisure time was employed in attending to a neat garden, in which various useful and
                            ornamental plants, fruits, etc., were carefully cultivated. Mr. Ralston was skilful in his
                            profession, honest in his dealings, gentlemanly in his deportment, a liberal and hospitable
                            citizen, a sincere and ardent friend. The respect and esteem of the generous and the good
                            were always awarded to him, and he found constant satisfaction in conferring favors not only
                            on his own species, but even on the humblest of the brute creation. "He would not
                            willingly set foot upon a worm." But his unsuspecting nature made him liable to
                            imposition; his sanguine expectations were often disappointed, his independent spirit
                            sometimes provoked opposition, and his extreme sensibility was frequently put to the
                            severest trials. Though he stood alone amongst us, as it respects family, his loss will be
                            long lamented.
                    
            
            As to Mr. Ralston's character and personality, Mrs. Jane Merrill Ketcham, writing for an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper in 1907, said: 
                        The house for the Treasurer of State, occupied by my father, Samuel Merrill, was on the
                            corner of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                             streets (so-called in the city's plan) the front facing where the
                            State House was to be. Mr. Ralston's house was in 
                                Maryland
                             street, southwest of ours. His was purely Scotch style. I should say, a light
                            slate in color. The main room was high above the wings on each side. There were six or eight
                            steps up to a small platform before the door of the center room. Mr. Ralston was here some
                            time before we were. I saw him often. He was so slender that he looked rather tall to a
                            child of six years. He  was always dressed in taste, I
                            should say, as a gentleman should be. One day, taking me by the hand, he said: "You
                            must have a pole for your martin box. We will go and find one." So we took a long
                            walk down the road to the thick woods and picked out one. When we were coming home he said:
                            "You must be very tired. Come in and rest while I read you a story." While
                            I rested he sat in an old-fashioned chair, a rest for his Bible at his right hand. From this
                            he read the story of Joseph and his brethren.
                        I love to think of Mr. Ralston. I love anything that brings back his memory. But it would be
                            difficult to get a likeness. I do not suppose I have given much help to those who propose a
                            monument to his memory, but perhaps I have given an idea of what kind of man he was.16
                  
                    
            
            Alexander Ralston's remains were interred near the bank of White River in the Green Lawn
                    Cemetery. Having no relatives and leaving no estate of any consequence, his grave received no head
                        stone.17 George Norwood, a friend, is said to have kept the location of the
                    grave marked by means of wooden stakes.
            Samuel Merrill, editor of the Indiana Journal, reminded the citizens in 1827 that
                    Ralston had planned a park for the city and urged them to make provision for one before it was too
                    late. Had they done so at this time it would doubtless have received Ralston's name.
            There is no way of knowing how many times and how many citizens in the last hundred ten years
                    expressed the idea that Alexander Ralston deserved an expression of honor on the part of the
                    citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            When the time came to abandon Green Lawn Cemetery as a burial ground the following resolution was
                    entered in the minutes of the meeting of the board of trustees of Crown Hill Cemetery, May 11, 1874:
                    "On motion of Mr. New, it was resolved; that this board will donate to the city a suitable
                    lot for the burial of Alexander Ralston, the surveyor of the original town plat of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1821, on condition that an appropriate monument be erected by the city to mark the
                    spot. The secretary was directed to notify the city of the same."
            The following motion was made in a meeting of the City Council on September 24, 1874:
                    "Moved: that a committee of three be appointed by the chair to attend to the removal of
                        
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 30, 1907.
                  
                     17 Report of the administrator, Samuel Merrill. Records of 
                                Marion
                             County.
               
                     Alexander Ralston's remains from the old cemetery to
                    Crown Hill and also to ascertain what a suitable monument will cost, and to report the same to this
                    council. Motion adopted and Mayor James L. Mitchell appointed Councilmen Darnell, Gimber and
                    Bollman."
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of October 1, 1874, printed this story of the removal of the remains of
                    Alexander Ralston from Green Lawn to Crown Hill: 
                        Yesterday afternoon at 3 o'clock, the committee appointed by the Common Council to
                            superintend the removal of the remains of Alexander Ralston, the surveyor of the original
                            plat of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , from Green-lawn Cemetery to Crown Hill, consisting of Messrs. C. F. Darnell,
                            Henry Gimber, and Fred Bollman, gathered at Greenlawn to carry out the order of Council. The
                            work of exhuming the remains, conveying them to Crown Hill, and reinterring them, was done
                            by David Kregelo. There were present during the afternoon, Mr. J. H. B. Nowland, wife and
                            daughter, Mrs. P. B. L. Nowland, Mary S. Cowger, Isaac N. Phipps and wife, Mrs. White,
                            Edward Davis, and David W. Brouse.
                        The remains were found on the spot designated last spring by the venerable George Norwood, on
                            the river bank near the southwest corner of the cemetery. The burial of Mr. Ralston took
                            place nearly forty-eight years ago, in the year 1827, and at that time graves were dug much
                            deeper than they are now. Yesterday afternoon the laborers became well nigh discouraged, as
                            did also several of the spectators, before they came to the level upon which the coffin was
                            laid. As Mr. Nowland remembered General Ralston, he was a man six feet in height or more,
                            and when the grave diggers came upon a human thigh-bone it was decided, from its length, to
                            be that of Mr. Ralston. The rest of the bones were exhumed (all vestiges of a coffin had
                            long ago disappeared) and were placed in a casket. The company then repaired to Crown Hill,
                            where the casket was buried in a grave on a beautiful sloping bank, just west of the
                            soldiers' graves, donated for the purpose by the Crown Hill Cemetery authorities.
                            There were no formal ceremonies, and when the last clod fell into the newly made grave the
                            company retired.
                        The work of the committee is but half done. They will now inquire into and report upon the
                            probable cost of erecting a suitable monument over the spot, and also have prepared a sketch
                            of Mr. Ralston's life, by George Norwood and J. H. B. Nowland, and a suitable
                            memorial to place upon the monument. The committee will proceed in this matter with the same
                            dispatch that has already characterized their movements."
                    
            
            At the next meeting of the city council, Mr. Darnell proposed an amendment to the list of claims
                    under consideration to provide for an appropriation of $10.50 to pay for the removal of
                    Ralston's body.
            Mr. Ralston's remains were interred in a plot of ground 
                    set aside as the "Lot for Destitute Teachers of the Public Schools"—Lot
                    30-Section 3. This site was chosen both because of its beautiful location and because of the
                    probability that few of the twelve graves provided would be needed for the purpose originally
                    intended.
            In a meeting of the City Council of January 4, 1875, Councilman Darnell reported as follows: 
                        As chairman of the special committee appointed by his honor to ascertain the cost of a
                            monument to be erected to the memory of Alexander Ralston I herewith submit designs and
                            prices of the same for your consideration. Also in reference to the identity of the remains
                            of Mr. Ralston I called upon Mr. George Norwood and he gave me the following statement.
                            "I verily believe the place I showed Mr. Kregelo is where Mr. Ralston was
                            buried—I selected the place to bury the remains, helped to prepare him for burial
                            and attended the funeral. With the exception of a short time I visited the grave quite
                            often, where Ralston's remains were deposited." Signed George Norwood.
                     In spite of these apparently good intentions the Council did not erect a monument, and as
                    to a memorial sketch of Ralston's life, none was printed.
            Five years after the removal of Ralston's remains to Crown Hill Cemetery, James Cooley
                    Fletcher, writing in one of the city papers,18 said that he had just visited
                    George Norwood who would be ninety-two years old in five months. He said that he found Mr.
                    Norwood's memory of the early years of 
                        Indianapolis
                     vivid and accurate. Mr. Fletcher had at that time in his possession a copy of an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper dated July, 1822, which contained an advertisement inserted by Mr. Norwood
                    who was then the city's wheelwright. Mr. Fletcher closed his article by saying
                    "Why not have a monument to Ralston? Instead of the unmeaning name given to the old
                    seminary square [University Square], which has no significance whatever, why not call it Ralston
                    Park? This would be a monumental and graceful tribute to the man who designed the plan of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."
            Judge E. B. Martindale, Mr. E. P. Claypool and other prominent citizens headed a movement about 1890
                    to raise funds by public subscription for the purpose of erecting a monument in honor of Alexander
                        Ralston.19 A total of three hundred fifty dollars was obtained, of which
                    about twenty-five 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 2, 1879.
                  
                     19 Dunn, op. cit., I, 34.
               
                     was spent in the process of collection. Nothing more concrete
                    than raising the money and depositing it in the Fletcher Bank came from this effort and the grave
                    remained unmarked.
            The obligation of the citizens to Mr. Ralston was presented again in 1904, when an article appeared
                    stating that "his grave is unmarked by any stone. There is nothing above it but the green
                    sward and yet his name is one that well deserves to be remembered in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."20
            
            In 1907, Judge Martindale, mindful of the funds intrusted to him and to others during the past
                    seventeen years, attempted once more to secure for Alexander Ralston his long belated honor. The
                    local papers of November 22 and 23, 1907, carried the following information to the readers: 
                        A little greenish clay model of Alexander Ralston as he should have looked, according to
                            Rudolph Schwartz, the local sculptor, occupied a point of vantage on the table of the City
                            Park Board this morning. The clay man is the model of a statue which it is proposed to erect
                            in University Square, probably in the center, surmounting a fountain replacing the one that
                            now plays there all summer long.
                        Mr. Martindale, before the Park Board, explained that the Schwartz model was a suggestion of
                            what could be done. The 
                                Indianapolis
                             sculptor agrees to make the figure in bronze, life size, for $1,000,
                            and this, Mr. Martindale assured the board, was not more than half what a similar statue
                            would cost elsewhere. If the Park Board will decide to make up the remainder of the
                            necessary sum by giving $675 for the purpose, Mr. Martindale will turn the fund
                            now in the Fletcher Bank over to the board he said.
                        The matter was discussed, but no decision was reached. At Mr. Martindale's
                            suggestion the board decided to refer the subject to a committee, composed of Dr. Henry
                            Jameson and J. Clyde Power, to report probably at the next meeting.
                        As far as known, there is no picture or likeness of Mr. Ralston of any sort in existence, so
                            that the model made by Mr. Schwartz is, as was said, the sculptor's idea of what
                            the engineer should have looked like, if he didn't.
                        The little figure is clothed in an old-fashioned double-breasted, swallow-tailed 
                                Quaker
                             coat, with a tall hat of the period in which the engineer worked. The queer
                            costume, when compared with modern out-of-doors work clothes, led Dr. Jameson to inquire why
                            Ralston did his work in a dress suit. Mr. Martindale assured the board that the sculptor
                            made very careful inquiries as to the clothes of the period before he dressed his model.
                        The cost of a suitable granite base for the Schwarz statue would probably be not less than
                            $1,000, so that the cost of a fountain with this statue as a center would
                            probably be $2,500 or $3,000. Members 
                        
                           20
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, August 13, 1904.
                     
                             of the board are doubtful if they have the power to
                            make this expenditure, and, even so, if the funds can be found.21
                  
                    
            
            On November 30, the Ralston committee of the park board reported unfavorably on the plan because of
                    the fact that the proposed statue was not a likeness. They offered the recommendation, however, that
                    the funds be held until a larger sum could be raised and then erect a fountain in University Park
                    and place a plaque on it commemorating Ralston's work.
            The erection of the beautiful Depew Memorial 
                        Fountain
                     in University Park obliterated the possibility of carrying out the above plan. However,
                    the passing of this opportunity gave rise to newspaper articles recalling the fact that it was once
                    intended to use the fountain site for that purpose and to the fact that much had been said and that
                    little had been done by way of honoring the designer of the "mile square."22
            
            The archives room of the Indiana State Library was very hot. It was midsummer of the year 1937. The
                    old newspapers of 1907 were yellow and fragile. The papers were bound and it was hard to see the
                    tops of the columns without standing up and bending over them. In a moment of relaxation certain
                    questions came to the mind of the writer: "What has become of this money raised by Mr.
                    Martindale and Mr. Claypool and others in 1890, as reported in this paper? Deposited in the Fletcher
                    Bank; but that institution has gone through reorganization several times. This fund is certainly no
                    longer in existence. But what became of it? The solicitors would not have returned it to the
                    contributors; no honor has been shown Alexander Ralston through its expenditure. If there is money
                    to be spent in his honor this is the fund to be used." The writer left the room principally
                    to get his lunch, secondly to visit the Fletcher National Bank.
            Arriving at the trust department the writer said, "I would like to talk to the oldest member
                    of the firm about an old trust fund left here over forty years ago." He was introduced to a
                    comparatively young man. "The newspapers show," the inquirer began, "that
                    there was deposited in this bank a sum to be used for the purpose of erecting a monument to the
                    designer of the mile square." After further explanation as 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., November 22, 1907.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., November 13, 1924.
               
                     to who Mr. Ralston was, the young man shook his head and said
                    he had never heard of such a trust fund, and was positive it did not exist.
            "Where in the bank might this money be? It is obvious that it has never been spent for the
                    purpose for which it was collected," pursued the writer. By this time the young
                    banker's interest was fully aroused and he suggested a visit to the checking accounts
                    department.
            Introduced to the proper official, the story of Alexander Ralston, the intention of the
                    Teachers' Federation to mark his grave, and the newspaper account of the lost fund was
                    narrated once more. "What account do you think it would be in? If you don't know
                    the name of the account, it would be like hunting a needle in a hay stack," replied the
                    official. "It should have been deposited in the name of the Alexander Ralston Memorial
                    Fund." The banker telephoned to the inactive accounts department and asked if such an
                    account existed—a long suspense, and the return call came back: "Yes we have an
                    account entitled the Alexander Ralston Monument Fund."
            The Alexander Ralston Memorial Committee of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Teachers' Federation was appointed to carry out the project of erecting a
                    suitable marker at the grave of the designer of downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After proper legal papers were presented to the bank, the funds were kindly turned
                    over to the committee.
            At last, on November 9, 1937, there was unveiled at the grave of Alexander Ralston, the most
                    thoroughly forgotten man of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a modest but enduring monument. His name and his 1821 map of 
                        Indianapolis
                     are deeply engraved in imperishable granite and credit is given to those interested
                    citizens who contributed the funds more than four decades ago.
            
               
                  23 A picture of the monument appeared in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         News of Nov. 9, 1937. See also 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sunday Star of Oct. 31, 1937, for an illustrated article by the author dealing
                        with Alexander Ralston.
            
         
         
         
            Julia L. Dumont of 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            LUCILLE DETRAZ SKELCHER
                    and JANE LUCILLE SKELCHER
            
            On January 2, 1857, in 
                        Vevay
                    , Julia Louisa Cory Dumont, wife of John L. Dumont, died and thus ended a profound
                    influence exercised for more than forty years in the town and the surrounding countryside.1
            
            Julia Louisa Cory was born late in 1794 in 
                  Marietta,
                            Ohio
               , a few months after her father was
                    found killed, presumably by Indians. The following spring, her mother returned to 
                        New York
                    , carrying the baby daughter with her in a saddle-bag on the arduous journey over the
                    mountains and through the wilderness. Mrs. Cory contrived to support herself and the baby by doing
                    tailoring. Later she married again, this time, a man with six children. After the death of her
                    second husband, she was again compelled to turn to her old occupation of tailoring. It is said that
                    in this she was an expert.
            Of far greater importance to the future of the little Julia, was the fact that the mother was an
                    exceptionally well-educated woman, for that time, and the author of at least one book called, Lucinda, or the Mountain Mourner. Consequently, Mrs. Cory, or
                    Mrs. Mandville, as her name was then, saw to it that her daughter received the best possible
                    education and developed in her a love of books and learning that lasted through her life. One result
                    of this was that, at what we now consider high school age, Julia Cory was teaching school, and at
                    the age of seventeen, we have a record of a poem, presumably written by her in Saratoga, 
                        New York
                    , on the fourth of July, 1812, when news about the war with Great Britain was daily
                    expected. It was while teaching that she met and married John Dumont, in 
                  Greenfield, New
                    York
               , in August of 1812. It is told that they first became acquainted through
                    the medium of a poem of hers which so intrigued the young man that he entered into a correspondence
                    with the writer, later meeting and marrying the young woman whose verse had so impressed him. In the
                    spring of 1813, this young couple came to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                  
                     1 This article was first published in the Reveille-Enterprise of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana, where it appeared as a longer article in two installments in the
                            issues of Feb. 10, 17, 1938. Mrs. Lucille Detraz Skelcher is a great-great-granddaughter of
                            Mrs. Dumont. Miss Jane Lucille Skelcher is a daughter of Mrs. Skelcher.
               
                     where John Dumont became a land agent for General William Henry
                    Harrison. A year later the Dumonts came to 
                        Vevay
                    , then a town just beginning to take shape in the center of the Swiss settlement on the 
                        Ohio
                    . The village must have looked crude and unfinished to the eyes of this nineteen year
                    old wife and her slightly older husband, used as they were to the more settled portions of the
                    empire state, but they lost little time in becoming an integral part of the community and so
                    remained.
            Beginning about 1820 and continuing most of the time for the next thirty-five years or so, Mrs.
                    Dumont taught school. One of her first schools was held in the upstairs room of the older part of
                    the house now occupied by Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Danglade. At this time, the house, not yet plastered,
                    was too cool for comfort, so Mrs. Dumont suggested to some of the older boys that if they would do
                    the work, she would procure the necessary lumber for ceiling the room. This was done and the room
                    was consequently much more comfortable. Among the pupils who helped was "Uncle"
                    Aime Morerod, still remembered in 
                        Vevay
                    . At another time, she taught in a building on the lot where the present James Sieglitz
                    residence stands. Ferret Dufour, 
                        Switzerland
                     County's historian, was also an early pupil of hers.
            Tradition has it that Mrs. Dumont, in her earlier days of teaching, often had her baby in its cradle
                    in one corner of the room so that she could watch the child while pursuing her pedagogical duties.
                    At the same time, it was not unusual for her to have, besides the baby, a primer class in one corner
                    and an advanced algebra or geomtery class in another corner, keeping a very competent eye on all
                    three. This was the more remarkable when we remember that at the time she began teaching, it was
                    indeed out of the ordinary for any woman to be proficient in any branch of higher mathematics. Many
                    women in that day, having received an education equivalent to that of finishing the fourth grade,
                    were considered well educated.
            In that earlier period, the usual accompaniments of teaching were the free use of the rod, the dunce
                    cap, and allied devices. The teacher, usually a man, would sometimes wear out five or six stout
                    switches in the course of a daily session, punishments being swift and sure for the most trivial
                    offences. For a really serious offence, a delinquent was often given a beating severe enough to tear
                    his shirt and  stain it with blood. As for giving the pupil any
                    commendation for work well performed, the very suggestion was too ridiculous to be considered.
            However, Mrs. Dumont did not agree with this viewpoint and gave praise where it was earned. Of this,
                    in The First of the Hoosiers, George Carry Eggleston says that Julia L. Dumont was
                        
                        the wisest woman, and the most successful teacher I have ever known. … I have
                            called her a Dr. Arnold in petticoats, but she was more even than that. Her gift of mastery
                            over young minds was an inspiration, her sympathy with youthful thought and feeling was a
                            sixth sense. Indeed her gift and her practice of encouraging pupils was looked upon by many
                            parents at that time as dangerous in tendency. To those who had been trained in the
                            severities of an older and ruder time, praise for a pupil seemed a perilous throwing down of
                            the bars of discipline. It was feared also that commendation might breed vanity and
                            self-conceit of a kind to endanger the salvation of souls.2
                  
                    
            
            Of her, in an article published in what was then Scribner's Monthly in
                    March, 1879, Edward Eggleston wrote: 
                        We had one teacher who was so far as natural genius for teaching goes, the best of all I have
                            ever known. Mrs. Julia L. Dumont is like all our western writers of that day almost entirely
                            forgotten but in the time, before railways, when the west, shut in by the Alleghanies, had
                            an incipient literature, Mrs. Dumont occupied no mean place as a writer of poetry and prose
                            tales. Eminent literateurs of the time from 
                                Philadelphia
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             used to come to 
                                Vevay
                            , and see her, but they themselves—these great lights of ancient
                            American Literature away back in the forties—are also forgotten. …
                        We thought Mrs. Dumont's poem on "The Retreat of the Ten Thousand"
                            admirable, but we were partial judges. Her story of "Boonesborough" was
                            highly praised by the great lights of the time. But her book of stories is out of print, and
                            her poems are forgotten. …
                        But as a schoolmistress, Mrs. Dumont deserves immortality. She knew nothing of systems, but
                            she went unerringly to the goal by pure force of native genius. In all her earlier life she
                            taught because she was poor, but after her husband's increasing property relieved
                            her from necessity, she still taught from love of it. When she was past sixty years old, a
                            school room was built for her alongside her residence, which was one of the best in the
                            town. It was here that I first knew her after she had already taught two generations in the
                            place. The "graded" schools had been newly introduced and no man was found
                            who could either in requirements or ability, take precedence of the venerable
                            schoolmistress; so the high school was given to her.
                        I can see the wonderful old lady now, as she was then, with her cape pinned awry, rocking her
                            splint bottom chair nervously while she talked. Full of all manner of knowledge, gifted with
                            something very like eloquence 
                        
                           2 George Cary Eggleston. The First of the
                                        Hoosiers (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    ., 1903), 146–146.
                     
                             in speech, abounding in affection for her pupils, and
                            enthusiasm in teaching, she moved us strangely. Being infatuated with her, we became fanatic
                            in our pursuit of knowledge, so that the school hours were not enough, and we had a
                            "lyceum" in the evening for reading compositions and a club for the study
                            of history. If a recitation became very interesting, the entire school would sometimes be
                            drawn into the discussion of the subject; all other lessons went to the wall, books of
                            reference were brought out of her library, hours were consumed and many a time the school
                            session was prolonged until darkness forced us reluctantly to adjourn.3
                  
                    
            
            These lyceum sessions were so interesting to the participants that little or no notice was taken of
                    the time consumed. Two of the girls who attended these lyceums boarded at the home of Mrs. Lucy
                    Detraz. One winter evening, "Aunt Lucy," who always sat up until they came home,
                    waited for them and as their usual hour came and passed, she waited uneasily for their appearance.
                    Ten o'clock, eleven and still the clock ticked on to midnight and no girls. After it struck
                    twelve, "Aunt Lucy" very indignantly put on her wraps, lighted a lantern and
                    started for Mrs. Dumont's. Arriving there, she found the lyceum session going full blast.
                    Interested in what they were doing, both teacher and pupils had entirely forgotten time until they
                    heard "Aunt Lucy's" indignant exclamation: "Julia Dumont, you
                    ought to be ashamed of yourself for keeping these children here till such an hour!"
            Mrs. Dumont's library was by far the most complete of any in the community and she was
                    thoroughly familiar with the volumes included, among which were Shakespeare's plays, the
                        Encyclopedia Britannica, and books on philosophy and poetry, as well as those
                    which related to the general school subjects which she taught. This wide variety of reading matter
                    was at the disposal of and used by the entire town.
            Edward Eggleston further said of Mrs. Dumont in his article on western teachers: 
                        Mrs. Dumont was the ideal of a teacher because she succeeded in forming character. She gave
                            her pupils unstinted praise, not hypocritically, but because she lovingly saw the best in
                            every one. We worked in the sunshine. A dull but industrious pupil was praised for
                            diligence, a bright pupil for ability, a good one for general excellence. The dullards got
                            more than their share, for, knowing how easily such a one is disheartened, Mrs. Dumont went
                            out of her way to praise the first show of success in a slow scholar. She treated no two
                            alike. She was 
                        
                           3 Edward Eggleston, "Some Western
                                    Schoolmasters," Scribner's Monthly (March 1879),
                                    XXVII, 750–751.
                     
                             full of all sorts of knack and tact, a person of
                            infinite resources for calling out the human spirit. She could be incredibly severe, when it
                            was needful, and no overgrown boy whose meanness had once been analyzed by Mrs. Dumont ever
                            forgot it.4
                  
                    
            
            George Cary Eggleston tells how Mrs. Dumont taught him to write legibly after all his previous
                    teachers had failed to teach him even the rudiments of writing. These teachers included in addition
                    to the ordinary school instructor, several special writing masters. But he himself says that the
                    result of all their efforts was nil, and that he could not read the manuscript when it was cold. He
                    reports that his latest teacher had 
                        made a positively desperate attempt to teach me to write. He had tied up my fingers with blue
                            ribbons to compel me to hold my pen correctly. He had written "miserable"
                            across each page of my copybook—emphasizing his criticism with even more
                            elaborate flourishes than usual. He had called me "dunce,"
                            "booby," and other pet names of like sort, and finally he had dismissed me
                            from his school, sending my mother a letter in which he assured her that it was useless to
                            make any further effort to teach me an art which I was wholly incapable of learning.5
                  
                    
            
            After this, George asked Mrs. Dumont to excuse him from all writing exercises and upon her surprised
                    inquiry as to whether he had learned to write so well that he couldn't learn any more, the
                    shame-faced boy confessed that his teacher had found him incapable of learning to write. Mrs. Dumont
                    drew the story of his experiences from him and she promised to teach him to write a clear and
                    legible hand so that in two weeks he could write a letter to this writing master at her dictation
                    and thus show the man that his estimate of the boy's capabilities was far from correct.
                    Buoyed by her faith in him, he made up his mind he would learn to write under her direction, though
                    he had to give up all his days and nights to succeed. He was determined, even though it should
                    involve physical torture, to justify this faith in him by becoming a good scribe. Unconventionally,
                    she explained that flourishes were unnecessary, that a difference in width of stroking was not
                    needed but legibility was, and that the method of holding the pen was not as important as whether or
                    not it was comfortable and natural to the user. To George's astonishment, he could read
                    what he had written after the very first session, and, at the end 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 751.
                  
                     5 G. C. Eggleston, First of the Hoosiers.
                            162–163.
               
                     of the appointed two weeks, he joyfully wrote as follows to the
                    writing master who had given him up: "Dear Sir: I am writing this letter at the dictation
                    of my teacher, Mrs. Dumont. Mrs. Dumont thinks you should be pleased to see that, after two weeks of
                    instruction I have learned to write a legible hand, and that I am not quite so hopeless a booby as
                    you thought me."
            During these years of teaching, Mrs. Dumont's mother was at all times her constant companion
                    and helped to run the household and care for the children while the daughter was at her school
                    duties. In death they are still side by side.
            A contributor to the success was her husband, himself a well-educated man, a fine lawyer, and always
                    an advocate and active promoter of higher education. He filled several local offices, such as
                    Justice of the Peace and Coroner, and, as early as October, 1814, served as inspector at the
                    election dividing the county into townships. He was also president of the 
                        Vevay
                     Literary Society. Upon Indiana's admission to the Union, he served as 
                        Switzerland
                     County's first representative in the legislature. The trip to the capital,
                    then located at Corydon, had to be made on horseback with his necessary baggage carried in
                    saddlebags. He also served as a representative in five additional, though not always consecutive,
                    annual sesions, and in the state senate continuously from 1831 to 1837. After his last term in the
                    senate, he ran for Governor but was defeated. This was in the great internal improvements contest of
                        1837.6 His opponent was David Wallace, who stood for the whole program of
                    public works adopted in 1836, while Dumont advocated a modification. Much of his work in the
                    legislature was associated with the fight for a better educational system, and he was instrumental
                    in helping to establish early in Indiana's history a high standard for the public education
                    of her children.
            John Dumont prospered and he acquired quite a little real estate around the town. He started and
                    maintained for many years a nursery of fruit trees, raising and selling several varieties of apple
                    trees, some of, the varieties that he sold still being found in present day nursery catalogues. He
                    was quite successful in his profession as a lawyer, having been admitted to the Indiana bar in 1818
                    at the March session 
                  
                     6 James H. Stewart, Recollections of the Early Settlement
                                of Carrol County (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1872), 151–154. Besides a brief account of the election of 1837,
                            there are two letters written to Stewart by John Dumont, dated July 2 and July 22,
                        1837.
               
                     of the 
                        Switzerland
                     Circuit Court. He continued his legal practice all his life and even in his seventies
                    is said to have been one of the ablest lawyers in. the community, equal to any of the younger ones
                    in the use of "wise-cracks" and other repartee in the; courtroom. It has been
                    claimed of him that, as an old man, no one ever looked less like the lawyer of tradition, or was a
                    better one.
            In an article in an old Reveille, we find the following description of John Dumont in his later
                    years: 
                        He was dressed in a faded suit of butternut jeans with a cap to match, and trousers stuffed
                            into soggy boots. The suit might have been made by his wife [dead for a few years] who was a
                            noble teacher, but a flop as a tailoress [if she really made them]. … John Dumont
                            was "a helluva looking lawyer" but he was smart enough that looks
                            didn't count.
                    
            
            In another article in the Reveille concerning early courts and lawyers, we find a
                    description of the veteran attorney in action. At the time referred to he was in his seventies and
                    more than somewhat frail, but according to the writer was "able to take care of his end of
                    the case and occasionally amused the spectators with wise-cracks, but his voice was not
                    strong." The opposition attorney in this particular case was a much younger man, but he
                    didn't seem able to down the veteran as Mr. Dumont more than held his own in the many wordy
                    clashes during the progress of the case. When the trial stopped for dinner, the young reporter of
                    the proceedings says he was quite surprised to hear Mr. Dumont quickly accept the invitation of his
                    opponent to have dinner with him. At the age of seventy-four, in 1861, he served as judge pro tem in the absence of the regular judge of the 
                        Switzerland
                     County Court.
            In a 
                        Vevay
                    
                    Reveille of July, 1869, quoting from the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, is found some comment on Mrs. Dumont's earlier writings. It is
                    stated that in 1827 the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Chronicle offered a premium for the best story submitted, and the one accepted was
                    "Theodore Harland", by Julia Dumont. This apparently was one of the earliest of
                    her writings to be published in the West. It was copied by many other papers. In the issue, dated
                    October 13, 1827, the Rural Repository of Hudson, 
                        New York
                    , carried this tale as its leading story. In 1869, the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette received a copy of this number sent by some-one in 
                        Colorado
                    , who told of finding the paper with the forty year old story of  Mrs. Dumont's under a sheltering rock. The Repository, probably put there by some lonely prospector, was still in a good state of
                    preservation. Commenting on this, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     writer recalled Mrs. Dumont's culture and attainments. He indicated that the
                    story was probably one of her earlier published efforts and held it to be superior to much material
                    published in the magazines of the year 1869.
            Meredith Nicholson says: 
                        Mrs. Dumont was the first Hoosier to become known beyond the state through imaginative
                            writing. In the little school of story tellers and poets that flourished in the
                                Ohio Valley in its early history, she was one of the chief figures.
                            It had not then become the fashion to local life and her prose sketches usually reflected
                            nothing of pioneer days. Her Life Sketches from Common Paths, a Series of
                            American tales, published at 
                                New York
                             in 1856 is in the best manner of the day. Mrs. Dumont's technical
                            skill was superior to that of her western contemporaries; but it is idle and ungracious to
                            criticize the writings of one whose talents were so varied, and whose life was consecrated
                            to good works.7
                  
                    
            
            The book referred to was Mrs. Dumont's last published work and is a series of short stories.
                    In her preface she says that the book was long planned, but delayed of execution as other duties
                    intervened. She dedicated it to her two living sons, the only two remaining of the seven sons she
                    had borne. Written in the fifties, the stories are, as might be expected, very moral in tone and
                    expressed in flowery language. The heroes are knights in shining armor, or rather their nineteenth
                    century equivalents, and the heroines are the proverbially delicate and shrinking damsels of
                    romance. Stripped of some of their excess verbiage, the tales might be interesting even now, but
                    written as they are, no one in the busy world of today is likely to take the time to find out.
            The Dumonts owned property where the county infirmary now is. There they always lived, building their
                    first home on that site. It was the Hon. John Dumont, who, when he became more prosperous, built the
                    original house that is now used as the principal building by the infirmary. The stone addition at
                    the back of the house was built by him as a surprise for his wife, when, in the summer of 1856, she
                    made a trip to 
                        New York
                     City to complete arrangements with the Appletons for the publication of her book. He
                    had made provision for the building materials earlier, and, after her 
                  
                     7 Meredith Nicholson. The Hoosiers (
                                New York
                            . 1916). 92–94.
               
                     departure, the work of erecting the addition began at once. It
                    was completed and ready for use when she returned. This was the "house with the Lombardy
                    poplars" to which "Mark Bonamy" in Roxy brought his
                    bride.
            Aurelius Dumont, the third and youngest of the sons of John and Julia L. (Cory) Dumont to reach
                    maturity, was the original of "Mark Bonamy." The original of
                    "Roxy" was Harriet Dufour, daughter of Vincent Dufour. The marriage of Aurelius
                    and Harriet was a very brilliant affair. The story is told that the bride's dress was of
                    heavy, white satin elaborately embroidered with pearls and almost stiff enough to stand alone.
                    Aurelius attended 
                        Hanover
                     College, and at the age of twenty-two was elected auditor of 
                        Switzerland
                     County. He was a gifted young lawyer and seemingly had a bright future before him, but
                    death claimed him at the age of twenty-six. This was only a year after his marriage, and his wife
                    followed him to the grave soon after. No children were born to the couple, but the story of the
                    illegitimate child so dramatically portrayed in Roxy was based on fact.8
            
            Julia L. Dumont was the mother of eleven children, some of whom died in childhood.9 A few of her descendants still live in 
                        Vevay
                    .10 Born in 1794 and living till 1857, she was but sixty-three when
                    she died.11 Most of the time from the arrival of herself and husband in 
                        Vevay
                    , a period of forty-three years, she served the community as an unusual and inspiring
                    teacher of the young. In all of her later years, she taught mainly for the love of the work. Edward
                    Eggleston did not praise her too highly, it seems, when he wrote that "as a
                    schoolmistress" Julia L. Dumont "deserves immortality."12
            
            
               
                  8 This daughter of Aurelius Dumont lived with his father and mother for
                        some years after the death of himself and wife. She was given the name, Julia Dumont. Later she
                        went to live with her natural mother, who had married. The daughter took the name of her
                        stepfather, becoming Julia Dumont —–. She lived a worthy life and married
                        well.
               
                  9 Two sons of John and Julia L. Dumont (John and Henry) died at about the
                        age of ten years each. Another son (Cornelius) died at the age of nine. A fourth son (Edgar) was
                        drowned at the upper grade on a Sunday in July, 1846. He was thirteen years of age.
               
                  10 A short article on the descendants of Mrs. Dumont will be published in
                        the next issue. There are living in 
                            Vevay
                         at the present time just five lineal descendants of John and Julia L. Dumont. They
                        are: Mrs. Louisa Detraz Fox, her two son.", and the authors of this paper, Mrs. Lucille
                        Detraz Skelcher and Jane Lucille Skelcher.
               
                  11 John Dumont survived his wife by a number of years. He died in 1870.
               
                  12 Eggleston, "Western Schoolmasters," loc.
                            cit., 751.
               
                  13 In addition to the sources of information cited, material was found on
                        the gravestones in the 
                            Vevay
                         Cemetery, in the files of the 
                            Vevay
                        
                        Reveille, in the Court Records of 
                            Switzerland
                         County, and in Perret Dufour, History of 
                                Switzerland
                             County. Others facts were obtained from clippings in scrap-books of Julie
                        LeClerc 
                            Knox
                        , Martha Detraz, and the 
                            Switzerland
                         County Historical Society.
            
         
         
         
            The Benjamin Harrison Memorial Home
            ROSS F. LOCKRIDGE
            
            There is now a rapidly growing interest in the home of Benjamin Harrison, which is located at 1230
                    North 
                        Delaware
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It is becoming a national shrine. Such an awakening in this year of 1938 is timely, as
                    it is now fifty years since his election as the twenty-third president of the 
                        United States
                    . He went from this home to the White House in 1889—the only man who has gone
                    from Indiana to the presidency. He had lived in this house seventeen years up to that time and he
                    continued to hold it as his home. After his term as head of the nation, he returned to spend his
                    remaining years there, Altogether, it was his home for thirty years, and he died there on March 13,
                    1901. The property has remained in the Harrison family ever since and has been recently restored by
                    the Arthur 
                        Jordan
                     Foundation.
            This home became a Mecca for visiting delegations on the day of Mr. Harrison's nomination
                    for president by the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention on June 25, 1888. Before evening of that very day, four different
                    delegations called upon him at his home. These were from surrounding
                            towns—
                  Danville, Plainfield, Noblesville
                and 
                        Kokomo
                    . To each of these groups, he expressed a short and gracious greeting. The climax of the
                    day came in the early evening when a voluntary throng of more than 5,000 of his 
                        Indianapolis
                     neighbors and friends gathered around his home with joyful demonstrations. Addressing
                    them from his doorstep with deep feeling, he said in part: 
                        Neighbors and Friends—I am profoundly sensible of the kindness which you evidence
                            tonight in gathering in such large numbers to extend to me your congratulations over the
                            result at 
                                Chicago
                            . It would be altogether inappropriate that I should say anything of a partisan
                            character. Many of my neighbors who differ with me politically have kindly extended to me,
                            as citizens of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , their congratulations over this event. Such congratulations, as well as those
                            of my neighbors who sympathize with me in my political beliefs, are exceedingly grateful
                                [sic]. I have been a long time a resident of 
                                Indianapolis
                            —over thirty years. Many who are here before me have been with me,
                            during all those years, citizens of this great and growing capital of a magnificent State.
                            We have seen the development and growth of this city. We are proud of its position to-day,
                            and we look forward in the future to a development which shall far outstrip that which the
                            years behind us 
                            
                        
                                    Benjamin Harrison Memorial Home No. 1230 North 
                                            Delaware
                                         Street
                                        
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , Indiana
                                
                     
                             have told. I thank you sincerely for this evidence that
                            those who have known me well and long give me still their confidence and respect.
                        Kings sometimes bestow decorations upon those whom they desire to honor, but that man is most
                            highly decorated who has the affectionate regard of his neighbors and friends.1
                  
                    
            
            His concluding words were: "My house will always open its doors gladly to any one of you
                    when you may desire to see me." Thus was established the spirit of welcome to this home
                    which is now extended universally.
            Benjamin Harrison was a typical citizen of the Hoosier capital and wished always to be known as such.
                    It was his chosen home. He came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     with his young wife, Caroline Scott Harrison, in 1854, to begin the practice of law at
                    the age of twenty-one. The young couple began their residence in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in a humble three-room cottage, rented for six dollars a month. As the family increased
                    and the young lawyer's business prospered, they moved twice, each time into a somewhat
                    larger home. In 1871, already a leader in his profession, Mr. Harrison built the stately but modest
                    mansion, now become a memorial. In 1896, he was married to Mary Lord Dimmick, and his last years in
                    his home were gladdened by his association with her and by the childish affection of their little
                    daughter Elizabeth.
            The maintenance oil the Benjamin Harrison Home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as an American shrine, together with the maintenance of another Harrison Mansion also
                    on Hoosier soil—Grouseland, the home of Governor William Henry Harrison in 
                        Vincennes
                    —establishes a continuity of important history through several generations of
                    a fine American family. Even families of states are involved in this singular continuity. 
                        Virginia
                    , the Old Dominion, was the mother both of states and statesmen. There is no evidence
                    that Benjamin Harrison ever sought or desired even in the smallest degree any personal advantages
                    from his illustrious family heritage. Indeed, the evidence is all to the contrary. He seldom
                    mentioned his family and when he did, it was with exemplary modesty. An example of this is seen in
                    his speech at 
                  Roanoke, vau
               , on April 14, 1891, where the first stop was made on his
                    "swing around the circle" as president. At the huge reception there, he said:
                        
                        The State of 
                                Virginia
                             is entitled, I think, to high estimation among 
                        
                           1 Charles Hedges. Speeches of President Benjamin
                                        Harrison (1892), 27.
                     
                             the States for its great history — for the
                            contribution it has made to the great story of our common country. This fact you discovered,
                            I think, long ago. For personal reasons I have great affection for 
                                Virginia
                            . It is the State of my fathers.2
                  
                    
            
            He would have been justified in proud elaboration. The first American Benjamin Harrison came to 
                        Virginia
                     almost at the beginning of the colony in 1634. He was succeeded in direct line by four
                    more Benjamin Harrisons—all of them planters, burgesses, citizens of prominence. All were
                    leaders in that growing age of the Old Dominion. Greatest of all was the fifth Benjamin,
                    great-grandfather of our own Benjamin Harrison, for he was a member of the Continental Congress and
                    signer of the Declaration of Independence. As Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , three times during the closing years of the Revolution, he had a prominent part in
                    preserving for the nation the daughter states of old 
                  Virginia, kyu
                and those carved
                    out of the Old Northwest.
            His son, William Henry Harrison, born in 
                        Virginia
                     was destined to have a noteworthy part, both as soldier and statesman in saving and
                    developing these states, especially Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    . His twelve years as Governor of Indiana Territory, plus his services in the second war
                    with 
                        England
                    , established the fame which led him to the White House, as the ninth president in 1841.
                    He was elected from 
                        Ohio
                     in his old age, but he belongs quite as much to Indiana where he built Grouseland, the
                    Harrison Mansion, in old 
                        Vincennes
                     where it is maintained to-day. It was, indeed, the White House of the West. Several of
                    his children were born there; among them, his son John Scott Harrison, who became the father of
                    Benjamin Harrison of Indiana and the nation.
            There is still to be seen, in the old shutter on a south window of the living room in that old
                    mansion, the bullet hole, supposedly made by an Indian firing from the darkness of the walnut grove
                    surrounding the mansion. That bullet narrowly missed the head of an infant Harrison, whom his
                    father, the Governor, was carrying before the fireplace. That infant was John Scott Harrison, who
                    lived to become the only American destined to be the son of one president and the father of another.
            Our Benjamin Harrison was born in 1833 in the home 
                  
                     2
                            Through the South with the President (
                                New York
                            , 1891). A Collection of the speeches that President Harrison made while on a
                            tour through southern and western states from April 14 to May 15, 1891. published by the 
                                New York
                            
                            Mail and Express.
                  
               
                     (not a cabin) of William Henry Harrison at
                            
                  North Bend, Ohio
               . This was the house that became so famous in the presidential
                    contest of 1840—"Log Cabin and Hard Cider" or "
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Tyler, too" campaign. As a boy in his eighth year, the striking features
                    of that dramatic campaign made a lasting impression upon Benjamin. Following the death of General
                    Harrison in 1841, after one month in the White House, his widow came to make her home for the rest
                    of her life with her son, John Scott Harrison, while the boy Benjamin was growing to manhood. Though
                    born and reared in 
                        Ohio
                    , this grandson of William Henry Harrison came to Indiana to carve out his career, and,
                    from here, he was elected President in 1888. Sixty years, 1773 to 1833, divided the birthdays of his
                    illustrious grandfather and himself. Forty-eight years, 1841 to 1889, separated their inauguration
                    days in 
                        Washington
                    , and there were fourteen Presidents between them. They passed from life just sixty
                    years apart, 1841 to 1901. Surely they represent a most intimate historic continuity of which two
                    Harrison mansions on Indiana soil are truly suggestive.
            All this was modestly suggested in a characteristic speech of Benjamin Harrison in his 
                        Indianapolis
                     home on July 4, 1888. He was serenaded that night by the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Club of 
                        Marion
                     County, which was composed entirely of men who had voted for his grandfather, both in
                    1836 and in 1840. His address included these passages: 
                        Mr. President and Gentlemen of the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             Club of 
                                Marion
                             County: I am very deeply touched by your visit to-day. The respect and
                            confidence of such a body of men is a crown. … I know that at the beginning your
                            respect and confidence was builded upon the respect, and even affection—may I not
                            say, which you bore to my grandfather. … I came among you with the heritage, I
                            trust, of a good name, such as all of you enjoy. It was the only inheritance that has been
                            transmitted in our family.
                        I think you recollect, and perhaps, it was that as much as aught else that drew your choice
                            in 1840 to the Whig candidate for the presidency, that he came out of 
                                Virginia
                             to the West with no fortune but the sword he bore, and unsheathed it here in
                            the defence of our frontier homes. He transmitted little to his descendants but the respect
                            he had won from his fellow-citizens. It seems to be the settled habit in our family to leave
                            nothing else to our children.
                        My friends, I am a thorough believer in the American test of character; the rule must be
                            applied to a man's own life when his stature is taken. He will not build high who
                            does not build for himself. I believe also in the American opportunity which puts the starry
                            sky  above every boy's head and sets his foot
                            upon a ladder which he may climb until his strength gives out.3
                  
                    
            
            This has the true Harrison tone and the genuine American ring. He must have received fine inspiration
                    from his distinguished family heritage; but the name of Harrison could no more make him the gallant
                    soldier and famous statesman that he was than make him a brilliant and successful lawyer.
                    Notwithstanding the many interruptions due to public service, he became the acknowledged head of the
                    Indiana bar and is generally conceded to have been one of the ablest lawyers that ever occupied the
                    White House.
            Throughout the summer and autumn of 1888, General Harrison received at his home from one to five or
                    more different delegations daily. They represented all classes and occupations from all parts of
                    Indiana and there were many from neighboring states. To each of them he extended a special greeting
                    peculiarly suited to the given group and the place it represented, showing his versatility and his
                    large familiarity with all American institutions. He spoke often in a non-partisan vein.
            To a delegation on July 18 from 
                        Howard County
                     (where a fresh gas boom was then being enjoyed), he said: 
                        Your county has been conspicuous among the counties of this State for its enterprise and
                            intelligence. You have been favored with a kindly and generous soil, cultivated by an
                            intelligent and educated class of farmers. Hitherto you have chiefly drawn your wealth from
                            the soil. You have had in the city of 
                                Kokomo
                             an enterprising and thrifty county town. You have been conspicuous for your
                            interest and devotion to the cause of education—for your interest in bringing
                            forward the coming generations well equipped for the duties of citizenship. I congratulate
                            you to-day that a new era of prosperity has opened for your county in the discovery of this
                            new and free fuel to which Mr. Rayburn has alluded. A source of great wealth has been opened
                            to your people.4
                  
                    
            
            As a tariff advocate, he addressed 3,000 men from 
                        Clay
                     County, largely coal miners, on July 26: 
                        Gentlemen and Friends from 
                                Clay
                             County—I thank you for this enthusiastic demonstration of your
                            interest. I am glad to be assured by those who have spoken for you to-day that you have
                            brought here, and desire to evidence, some personal respect for me; but this demonstration
                            has relation, I am sure, rather to principles than to men. You come as representatives of
                            the diversified interests of your county. You are fortunate in already possessing
                            diversified industries. You 
                        
                           3 Hedges, Speeches of Harrison,
                                    38–39.
                        
                           4
                                    Ibid., 50–51.
                     
                             have not only agriculture, but the mine and factory
                            which provide a home market for the products of your farms. You come here, as I understand,
                            from all these pursuits, to declare that in your opinion your interests as farmers, as
                            miners, as mechanics, as tradesmen, are identified with the maintenance of the doctrine of
                            protection to Anierican industries, and the preservation of the American market for American
                                products.5
                  
                    
            
            On August 4, he spoke in a similar vein to a Railroad Club from 
                        Terre Haute
                     that marched up 
                        Delaware
                     Street one thousand strong led by a model, monster locomotive, belching fire and smoke:
                        
                        You come to-night from one of our most beautiful Indiana cities. It was built on the 
                                Wabash
                             in the expectation that that stream would furnish the channel of its
                            communication with the outside world. But the 
                                Wabash
                             is a small tributary to-day to the commerce of 
                                Terre Haute
                            . The railroads that span it are the great vehicles of your commerce. They have
                            largely superseded the water communication that was deemed so important in the first
                            settlement, and, perhaps, was so decisive in the location of your city. 
                                Terre Haute
                             is conspicuous for its industries. The smoke of your factories goes up night
                            and day. The farms about your city have become gardens, and the cordial and harmonious
                            relations between the railroad shop and the factory and the farms that lie about have a
                            conspicuous illustration with you. You have found that that policy which built up these
                            shops, which maintains them, gives employment to the largest number of men, is the best
                            thing not only for the railroads that do the transportation, but for the workingmen, who
                            find steady employment at good wages, and for the farmers, who supply their needs.6
                  
                    
                
            In a somewhat facetious vein he addressed a vast 
                        Illinois
                     group on July 19: 
                        The States of Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             are neighbors, geographically. The river that for a portion of its length
                            constitutes the boundary between our States is not a river of division. Its tendency seems
                            to be, in these times when so many things are "going dry," rather to
                            obliterate than to enlarge the obstruction between us. But I rejoice t o know that we are
                            not only geographically neighbors, but that Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             have been neighborly in the high sentiments and purposes which have
                            characterized their people.7
                  
                    
            
            His most touching sentiments perhaps were voiced before the numerous groups of his old comrades of
                    the Civil War, of which these words to a column of veterans on June 30 are typical: 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 60.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 75-76.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 52.
               
                    
                    
                        I sincerely thank you for this evidence of your respect and comradship. I am very certain
                            that there is no class whose confidence and respect I more highly prize or more earnestly
                            covet than that of the soldiers who, in the great war from 1861 to 1865, upheld the loved
                            banner of our country and brought i t home in honor. The comradeship of the war will never
                            end until our lives end. The fires in which our friendship was riveted and welded were too
                            hot for the bond ever to be broken. We sympathize with each other in the glory of the common
                            cause for which we fought. We went, not as partisans, but as patriots, into the strife which
                            involved the national life. I am sure that no army was ever assembled in the
                            world's history that was gathered from higher impulses than the army of the
                                Union.8
                  
                     Perhaps ncw, it may well be conceived that the walls of his hcnie and its environs are
                    forever ringing with the wave lengths of his familiar voice ever expressing the patriotic human
                    sentiments that distinguished his life and career.
            Though it seems not to be known, Harrison was really a wonderful speaker. Even his most commonplace
                    speeches are gems of clear and cogent expression. Few of the world's orators ever adapted
                    themselves better to all kinds of conditions. His swing around the circle-through the South and
                    West-from April 14 to May 15 in 1891, was a demonstration of his adaptability. In this tour of
                    10,000 miles through twenty-two states all of his more than one hundred fifty speeches were happily
                    adapted to the widely varying situations.
            Most touching of all was his greeting to his own home folks in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , near the end of that historic tour on May 14. It was his first return to his home
                    since he had left for the White House over two years before: 
                        As I greet my old home friends, I cannot, I fear, command myself sufficiently to speak to you
                            at any length. Our path has been attended by the plaudits of multitudes; our way has been
                            strewn with flowers; we have journeyed through the orchards of 
                                California
                            , laden with golden fruit; we have climbed to the summit of great mountains and
                            have seen those rich mines from which the precious metals are extracted; we have dropped
                            again suddenly into fruitful valleys, and our pathway has been made glad by the cheerful and
                            friendly acclaim of our American fellow citizens without regard to any party divisions; but
                            1 beg to assure you that all the sweetness of the flowers that hare been showered upon us,
                            that all the beauty of these almost tropical landscapes upon which we have looked, that all
                            the riches of those precious mines sink into forgetfulness as I receive to-day this welcome
                            from 
                        
                           8
                                    Ibid., 32.
                     
                             my old friends. My manhood has known no other home but
                            this. It was the scene of my early struggles; it has been the scene, and you have been the
                            instruments and supporters, in every success I have achieved in life. I come to lay before
                            you to-day my thankful offering for your friendly helpfulness that was extended to me as a
                            boy and that has been mine in all the years of our intercourse that have intervened until
                            this hour.9
                  
                    
                
            The speeches of Benjamin Harrison would serve as excellent specimens for study and drill by students
                    in our schools to-day, and they offer the best source material for historic site recitals at his
                    home. A Pageant-Drama of Harrison Historical Episodes was given at the memorial home by the Society
                    of Indiana Pioneers on May 21, 1938. A series of pilgrimage programs is being conducted to the home
                    under the sponsorship of the Indiana University Foundation for the purpose of demonstrating the
                    value of such recitals. The spacious rooms, stately portico and shady lawn furnish rare facilities
                    for group meetings. There President Harrison may be known really as the kind neighbor and
                    warm-hearted friend that 
                        Indianapolis
                     knew fifty years ago. There also will live the memories of his family. The Daughters of
                    the American Revolution during their Golden Anniversary (1940) will make this home a special shrine
                    in honor of Caroline Scott Harrison, who served as their first President General in 1890.
            The Benjamin Harrison home has been fully restored and is equipped throughout with furnishings that
                    belong to the Victorian, or "Gay Nineties", period. Many of these furnishings were
                    familiar parts of the original furnishings when the home was occupied by the Harrison family. They
                    include Harrison's library and numerous family pictures, together with a complete set of
                    fine water colors by Mrs. Caroline Scott Harrison. The General's gymnastic cabinet of
                    weights, Indian clubs and dumb-bells still stands at the foot of his bed.
            Benjamin Harrison was always an ardent supporter of the public schools. It is fitting that Old Number
                    2, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     School on 
                        Delaware
                     Street only a few squares from his home, proudly bears the name—THE BENJAMIN
                    HARRISON SCHOOL. This was officially decreed by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of School Commissioners in regular session on March 
                  
                     9
                            Through the South and West with the President, 145.
               
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        The picture opposite was taken in one of the rooms of the Harrison Memorial Home in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , the occasion being the sixty-fourth annual reunion of General Benjamin
                            Harrison's regiment, the Seventieth Indiana, on August 20, 1938. The portrait of
                            President Harrison hangs above the mantle as shown in the picture. The man selected to
                            represent Harrison was Ross F. Lockridge of 
                                Bloomington
                            . In the picture, he is seated in front of the grate. At the recent reunion, Mr.
                            Lockridge, standing on the front veranda of the Harrison Home, delivered to those assembled,
                            the speech that General Harrison made to his comrades at their fourteenth reunion in 1888.
                            Impersonating the General with such remarkable fidelity, the presentation of the address by
                            Mr. Lockridge was very effective.—Editor.
                  
                    
                     15, 1901, two days after his death. The following resolution
                    was spread of record: 
                        In the death of Benjamin Harrison the public schools of 
                                Indianapolis
                             have lost a loyal friend. General Harrison's face and figure were
                            familiar to the children and his words were an inspiration to them, as the memory of his
                            life will be. He believed in the common schools and he proved his faith by his labors in
                            their behalf. Whatever the people undertook in the way of educational reform was sure of his
                            support and whatever had his support in this community where he was known best and loved
                            best was sure of success.10
                  
                    
            
            Benjamin Harrison touched 
                        Indianapolis
                     closely in every phase of community life. For fifteen years, he was Superintendent of
                    the Sunday School at the First Presbyterian Church. Notwithstanding the heavy calls to larger
                    duties, constantly made upon him, he was ever attentive to all the common functions of citizen,
                    neighbor and friend.
            Through the President Harrison Memorial Home, 
                        Indianapolis
                     and all Indiana are presenting a famous Hoosier citizen to the world in the spirit
                    expressed by his friend, James Whitcomb Riley, when he uttered his closing words at the reception of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club to Ex-President Harrison in April, 1897:
            "Our friend and neighbor—our fellow-citizen … the always simple,
                    unassuming and unselfish member of a simple community so signally favored as to do him honor long
                    prior to that universal homage so justly won when he
            "Became on Fortune's crowning slope
            The pillar of a people's hope,
            The center of a world's desire."11
            
            
               
                  10 Records of the Board of School Commissioners of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Minute Book L, 91.
               
                  11 Marcus Dickey. The Maturity of James Whitcomb Riley (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922), 364.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            Florence Venn, librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, reports acquisition by the library of several important items. Among them are Thomas
                    Hutchins' Topographical Description of Virgania (
                        London
                    , 1778) in the original wrappers, accompanied by a fine copy of the map, and Lewis
                    Evans' Geographical Essays, printed in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1755 by 
                        Franklin
                     and Hall, also with the rare accompanying map. These were purchased from the 
                        London
                     firm, Henry Stevens, Son and Stiles. A most notable addition is the Blaeu Atlas Major in eleven volumes, published in Amsterdam in 1662, which was bought from Dr.
                    Louis C. Karpinski of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    . Its vellum binding decorated in gold, still in excellent condition, and its many fine
                    maps, beautifully colored by hand, make it an acquisition of which the Historical Society may well
                    be proud.
            John Foster's The Capitulation (
                        Chillicothe
                    , 1812), an extremely rare pamphlet dealing with Hull's expedition, was
                    acquired from Richard E. Banta of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . The subject of Samuel Wharton's Plain Facts, Being … a Vindication
                    of the Grant … to the Proprietors of Indiana (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1781) makes it of particular interest. This volume was secured from
                    Goodspeed's Book Shop, which also procured for the library, in its capacity as agent, the
                    first edition of Samuel Cummings' Western Navigator (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1822) with the accompany charts, which was offered at the Dahlinger sale in January.
                    Samuel Woodworth's Life and Confession of James Hudson (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1825) purchased from the Hoosier Book Shop, is an important acquisition both as
                    regards subject matter and imprint. A few Thomas A. Hendricks and Winthrop Sargent letters were
                    secured from the American Autograph Shop.
            Since the Smith Memorial Library was established in the State Library and Historical Building at
                    Senate Avenue and 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a number of gifts have been received for which the Society is deeply grateful. The
                    amount Of material received as gifts, however, has been somewhat disappointing. The Society has a
                    relatively small income for  an important historical library. It
                    is not attempting to develop a general nor a numerically large library; being in the same building
                    with the State Library, it rather seeks to avoid duplication. Its chief function is to develop a
                    collection of rare and valuable historical material, especially upon the region of the Old
                    Northwest. Much of this material is scattered in homes of families that have been longest in this
                    region. Undoubtedly much of it is known to, or can be located by, members of the Society. May we
                    urge all of our members to look for historical material of this sort, both books and manuscripts,
                    including letters, in their own attics, and to be on the lookout for it among their neighbors and
                    friends. Gifts of this material are greatly appreciated by the Society and are a valuable
                    contribution towards preserving our history. If it cannot be given or purchased at the time,
                    provisions for bequests not only are in order but frequently are a source of satisfaction to the
                    present owners.
            An interesting, and thus far a unique, provision has been made in the will of a well-known Indiana
                    citizen. This person is compiling a historical publication and has taken care of the contingency of
                    dying before it is completed by making a bequest for the completion and publication by the Indiana
                    Historical Society, Many of our readers can recall cases in which this was not done and consequently
                    important work was lost. The Society, of course, cannot obligate itself to accept bequests for the
                    publication of all such works, but a reasonable assurance could be given by previous consultation,
                    or other provision could be inserted into the will should the Society not accept the bequest.
            Both the committee on covered timber bridges and the committee on early mills have been steadily at
                    work. Much information and many illustrations remain to be collected or definitely given up as
                    unobtainable. However, the committees have gone far enough to begin to plan for final compilation
                    and writing. The committee on publication hopes that in both cases an attractive volume can be
                    produced. No time can be set, but the committees are working toward the completion of their work for
                    publication within the next two or three years.
            The membership of the Society has reached an all-time  high. For
                    some years prior to 1925, memberships ran for one year from the date of the payment of the annual
                    dues and no exact figures are available for any one time. It seems certain, however, that the
                    present total membrship of 1241 (exclusive of honorary) is the largest in the one hundred eight
                    years of the Society's history.
         
         
         
            History Teacher's Forum
            AN OPEN LETTER
            By LORING C. HALBERSTADT
            
            The high school teachers of history are on the firing line. Often, being engaged in their work of
                    teaching the events of the past and present, they become absorbed in the processes of imparting
                    these facts, and in those whom they are instructing. Little details come and go in their daily
                    routine which seem insignificant. Like the soldier on the firing line, little bits of information
                    which they come in contact with seem so insignificant that opportunities are passed. Yet the men
                    back of the lines need this information, and the good soldier en the firing line today not only
                    fights but becomes a collector of bits of information to be passed back to others with more time,
                    experience, and broader views to look them over and to discover their real significance and put them
                    to use in their proper places. So the history teachers in our Indiana High Schools are on
                    history's firing line. They should be constantly looking for bits of rare information, as
                    well as for facts which seemingly are insignificant but may become very important in a broader
                    set-up.
            As an illustration the writer will relate the story of two letters which came to his attention when
                    he was a history teacher. Several years ago, after teaching a lesson in 
                        United States
                     History, a boy stopped after class and said he had a letter at home that he would like
                    for me to read. The next day before school started the letter was brought in and read. It was a
                    description by an eye witness of Morgan's Raid in 
                        Ohio
                     after Morgan had left Indiana soil.
            A year or so later a girl informed me that her mother had discovered an old letter in a clock. I
                    asked to see it. This letter was written by a missionary to the Wyandotte Indians here in Indiana.
                    The letter described the writer's trials with the Indians as they were moved from Indiana
                    to 
                        Missouri
                    . A copy of this was sent to the Secretary of the 
                        Kansas
                     Historical Society, and it brought a reply that this was a letter of real importance.
                    Also that the Secretary was writing a biography of Mr. Wheeler and welcomed this find. Incidentally,
                    the girl's parents discovered relatives in 
                        Missouri
                     and visits have been exchanged since that time.
            
            Perhaps there are other teachers of history in Indiana with better stories than the above. Let us
                    hope so. I am also satisfied that there are others that have passed up "finds"
                    when the gold ore was in their pans. The Indiana Magazine of History contains a
                    department devoted to the publishing of documents. It can serve us and we can serve it. There should
                    be a better tie-up between history teachers of Indiana and the Indiana Historical Society. This
                    sentiment was expressed by a speaker at the October meeting.
            As we travel "The trodden path" recognizing all of the old land marks, perhaps we
                    should saunter a little and look more closely. A "find" may be just back of that
                    "big decaying walnut stump." So come on History Teachers of Indiana, "let
                    down the `bars'—climb over" and let us use the work of the Indiana
                    Historical Society and of the quarterly, the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            LETTERS OF A DRUMMER-BOY
            Edited by DON RUSSELL
            
            
                    Introduction
                
            Letters and diaries are often of more interest for the light they throw upon a way of life or a point
                    of view than for their descriptions of great events. Such, to a degree, is the case with the letters
                    of a drummer-boy that follow. His regiment, although almost constantly in active service, aside from
                    the 
                        Vicksburg
                     campaign, took part in few of the important battles of the Civil War. There are casual
                    accounts here of a number, of forgotten skirmishes and expeditions, and something about the assault
                    on Fort Blakely during the siege of Mobile, but some readers will perhaps get more of an idea,of a
                    Civil War soldier's life from incidental things: from the chicken that spoiled in the
                    haversack, so that "I did not get to eat a bit of it;" from the green corn that
                    was "coming out in tassell in some places and looks very nice," but was used to
                    make beds; from the picture cases that had "nearly all come to pieces," and that
                    he wanted to exchange for photographs; from the pay delayed for a year; and from Mr. Cope who
                    "comes to me everytime the mail comes and asks me if I got a letter from home and how his
                    folks is."
            Then, from this lad, who, in his later years, was one of the kindliest of men, comes the pious hope
                    that "Andrew Johnson will kill every leader of the Confederacy which ought to be
                    done," and the expression, "I don't know what they done with the
                    butternuts but I hope they hung them for I know they need it." No seeker after glory in
                    those days of 1864–1865, he cheered the fact that "Our regiment was so lucky as
                    to not get into the charge," and he longed for the day when "we will once more
                    have peace and hapiness restored to our once hapy [sic] country." Of such
                    homely materials are most of the letters made, and so they are presented, with no omissions except
                    of some extraneous and unimportant messages to the folk at home.
            Henry Lawson Bert, author of the letters, was born at Jimstown, 
                        Ohio
                    , on August 15, 1845, the son of Peter Bert and of Mary Frazier Bert.1 The father of Peter Bert was 
                  
                     1 Entry in the Bert family Bible.
               
                     born in Hesse Darmstadt of French parentage on January 24,
                    1817. He came to America at the age of twelve and was married on December 24, 1841. His wife died on
                    February 20, 1851, at about which time he came to Indiana. On October 5 of the: same year, he
                    married Elizabeth McKee at Strawtown. Soon after this he established himself at 
                        Tipton
                     as a merchant tailor and is said to have organized the first Methodist Sunday School in
                    that city.
            Henry was little more than sixteen years of age when he left his home at 
                        Tipton
                     to enlist for the Civil War. He was not at once accepted—he was small for
                    his age—but followed the Forty-Seventh Regiment of Indiana Volunteers from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    , before he was finally enrolled as a drummer in Captain William M. Henley's
                    Company I on December 21, 1861. He is described as four feet, ten inches in height, of dark
                    complexion, with black eyes, whose occupation at the time of enrollment was that of a printer2—printer's devil would probably be more accurate. It was a
                    trade he did not afterwards follow.
            The first unit of the Forty-seventh Indiana to be raised was a company from Bluffton, enrolled by
                    John A. McLaughlin, a veteran of the Mexican War, who hoped to join the Thirty-fourth Indiana, then
                    being organized at Anderson.3 Arriving there on September 25, 1861, with
                    eighty-three men, McLaughlin found that regiment already full. His company was ordered to Camp
                    Sullivan, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where it was recruited to the required number (101) and mustered into the 
                        United States
                     service for three years or during the war," as Company A of the Forty-seventh.
                    Other companies were raised, principally from the eleventh congressional district—from
                            
                  Decatur, Huntington, Wabash, Tipton, Knightstown
               , Jay Court House
                    and 
                        Kokomo
                    . James R. Slack was appointed Colonel. The regiment was accepted for federal service on
                    December 13 and left for 
                        Louisville
                     two days later.
            The Forty-seventh remained at Camp Wickliffe, 
                        Kentucky
                    , assigned to the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    , until February, 1862, when it marched by way of 
                        Elizabethtown
                     to West Point, took transports to Commerce, 
                        Missouri
                    , and Col. Slack 
                  
                     2 From data in discharge papers.
                  
                     3 Sketches of the services of the Forty-seventh Indiana appear in H.
                            H. Terrill, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana,
                            1861–1865; Indiana at 
                                    Vicksburg
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), compiled by Henry C. Adams, Jr., for the Indiana 
                                Vicksburg
                             Military Park Commission, 289–293; Frederick H. Dyer, A
                                Compendium of the War of the Rebellion (Des Moines, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1908).
               
                     commanding, was assigned to the First Brigade of the Third
                    Division, led by Brig. Gen. John M. Palmer, of the Army of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , under Maj. Gen. John Pope.
            In this command the Forty-seventh Indiana 
                        marched to a point below Island No. 10 on the Mississippi River, and
                            operated along the river between that point and New Madrid and was one of the first
                            regiments to enter Fort Thompson, March 14th.
                        With the 34th, 43d, and 46th [Indiana] regiments under General Palmer it participated in the
                            action which cut off communications with Island No. 10, and joined in the surrender of that
                            point. This was the first action that tested the mettle of the men. The guns were pulled in
                            place on the river bank by hand, with ropes, and in the darkness of the night, and the men,
                            with no other protection than the rifle pits scooped out in the sand, held their ground
                            against the fire of the rebel gunboats, disabling one and driving off the others.4
                  
                    
            
            After this action at Riddle's Point, and the surrender of Island No. 10 by the Confederates,
                    the Forty-seventh cooperated with the navy in its operations on the inland waters, in the expedition
                    to Fort Pillow, garrisoning Tiptonville, 
                        Tennessee
                    , from April 15 to June 15 and 
                        Memphis
                     from June 30 to July 25. Col. Slack was for a time in command at 
                        Memphis
                    . The regiment was then moved by river to 
                  Helena, aru
               , where it remained
                    until the following March, with the exception of several expeditions: a fight at 
                        Brown
                    's Plantation, 
                        Mississippi
                     (August 11, 1862), where eleven were killed and wounded; an expedition to 
                        Arkansas
                     Post (November, 6-21); and the Yazoo Pass expedition of Brig. Gen. I. F. Quinby by way
                    of Moon Lake, the Coldwater and Tallahatchie rivers to the attack on Fort Pemberton at Greenwood, 
                        Mississippi
                    , under the divisional command of Brig. Gen. L. F. Ross.
            By this time, Grant was ready for his final successful campaign in the rear of 
                        Vicksburg
                    . The Forty-seventh was ordered to Milliken's Bend, 
                        Louisiana
                     on April 12. It then marched by way of the Perkins and James plantations to New 
                        Carthage
                    , where it was transported across the river to 
                        Bruinsburg
                    . During these operations the regiment was commanded by its Lieutenant Colonel, John A.
                    McLaughlin, who had been Captain of its first company. Its Colonel, Slack, commanded the brigade,
                    which included the Twenty-fourth and Twenty-eighth 
                        Iowa
                     and the Fifty-sixth 
                        Ohio
                    , and later the Eighty-seventh 
                        Illinois
                    . This was the Second Brigade of the Twelfth 
                  
                     4
                            Indiana at 
                                    Vicksburg
                                , 290.
               
                     Division, commanded by Brig. Gen. Alvin P. Hovey, who had been
                    originally Colonel of the Twenty-fourth Indiana, but was now assigned to the First Brigade of the
                    same division. General Hovey later became governor of Indiana. The Division was assigned to the
                    Thirteenth Army Corps of Maj. Gen. John A. McClernand, one of the three army corps of Maj. Gen. U.
                    S. Grant's Army of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Immediately on landing, the Forty-seventh began the movement into the interior, marching all night,
                    and confronting the enemy under Maj. Gen. J. S. Bowen near Port Gibson on May 1.
                    "Hovey's Division had the brunt of this battle, and the 47th, assisted by a
                    battery of field guns, repulsed charges made by one of Bowen's brigades."
                    Grant's army now turned toward 
                        Jackson
                    , to deal with the forces of Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, before turning back against Lt.
                    Gen. J. C. Pemberton at 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Pemberton, however, moved out from 
                        Vicksburg
                    ; sharp skirmishing at Fourteen Mile Creek on May 12–13 showed that he was
                    concentrating at Edward's Station. McClernand's and McPherson's corps
                    were turned in that direction. This resulted in the Forty-seventh's heaviest battle of the
                    war, that of Champion's Hill, or Baker's Creek, fought on May 16. That
                    Hovey's Division bore the brunt of this battle is shown by the casualty lists. The seven
                    divisions on the field had 2,408 casualties, of which 1,202 were in Hovey's Division.
            Company A of the Forty-seventh was on the skirmish line, and a short retreat of the forces engaged
                    brought the Eleventh Indiana Regiment to the rear. The charge made by this regiment swept the
                    skirmishers with it. The guns of a rebel battery were captured, but had to be abandoned, because,
                    just at that time, the Union force was outnumbered and had to fall back for a space. It was soon
                    reinforced and the enemy was driven from the field.6 Casualties in the
                    Forty-seventh regiment numbered 143. Among them were Lieut. James F. Perry and Lieut. George W. Cole
                    of Company B, killed, and Maj. Lewis H. Goodwin, Capt. E. Y. Sturgis and Lieut. David Bender,
                    wounded.
            After a rear-guard action at Big Black River Bridge on May 18, Pemberton retreated within the
                    defenses of 
                        Vicksburg
                    . On May 26 the Forty-seventh was assigned to its place in the siege lines, south of the
                    A. & V. Railroad, and in the 
                  
                     5
                            Indiana at 
                                    Vicksburg
                                , 291.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 291.
               
                     present National Military Park. The position is now marked by a
                    monument near the junction of Union and 
                        Kentucky
                     avenues. Captain S. J. Kellar of Company H kept a diary from which the following
                    passages are taken: 
                  
                     
                        May 26th—Ordered out as sharpshooters and are in trenches within 200 yards
                                    of the enemy's forts. No enemy dare show his head. We shoot so close, or
                                    pick them off, as to warn them to keep hid. Had heavy artillery firing on both
                                    sides. A flag of truce sent out to bury the dead and bring in the wounded. The men
                                    from both sides came together and talked friendly. Our boys jollied them and advised
                                    them to give up and save their city and many lives. They replied that they still had
                                    hopes General Johnson would come to their relief.
                        May 28th—We are back in camp. Had only one man wounded in our regiment the
                                    two days we were out, but some of the men had very narrow escapes.
                        June 11th—Last night dark and gloomy. Was on duty the forepart. Thundered
                                    and lightened and poured as if the earth and sky were coming together. Went into
                                    camp wet, muddy and half dead.
                        June 25th—Blew up one of the enemy's forts. Heavy artillery duel
                                    which lasted two hours.
                        June 30th—Busy working on our payrolls. A cannon ball from the
                                    enemy's guns struck my tent and threw dirt and dust all over us.
                        July 3rd—Have dug our trench almost into the enemy's works and
                                    our men are lying flat on the ground.
                        July 4th—This is a glorious old Fourth of July. 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     has surrendered.7
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            After the fall of 
                        Vicksburg
                    , the Forty-seventh marched to 
                        Jackson
                     and took part in the engagement there. It then returned to 
                        Vicksburg
                     and was ordered to 
                        New Orleans
                     on Aug. 10. It was stationed at Carrollton, Brashear City and Berwick Bay until
                    October, and then took part in Maj. Gen. N. P. Banks' first Red River Campaign, usually
                    known as the Teche Campaign. This extended from October 3 to November 30, and was marked by one
                    engagement, at Bayou Grand Coteau. It then returned to New Iberia, and while there, in December,
                    1863, the "three years of the war" having expired, the regiment re-enlisted and
                    was sent home on veterans' furlough, leaving Algiers, 
                        Louisiana
                    , on Feb. 9, 1864, and arriving at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Feb. 18. The next day a public reception was given to the 146 veterans of the
                    Forty-seventh, who had re-enlisted, and to the Twenty-first Indiana, also home on furlough.
                    Addresses were made by Governor Oliver P. Morton and by Gen. Slack, who had received his commission
                    as Brigadier General of volunteers on Nov. 11, a promotion 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 291–292. Quoting from Kellar's Diary.
               
                     well deserved as he had commanded a brigade during most of his
                    service. Incidents of the return to the front are told in the letter of April 3, 1864. The Knights
                    of the Golden Circle and other organizations of southern sympathizers were active in 1864 and it is
                    presumed they are the "Butternuts" encountered at Mattoon, 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Near the end of the War, the Forty-seventh Indiana was moved to 
                        New Orleans
                    . This was on May 26, 1865. It went from there to Shreveport, where it received the
                    surrender of Gen. Sterling Price of the Confederate Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     department. It did not reach home by September, as the drummer-boy had hoped, but
                    remained at Shreveport until October 23. Then it was sent to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , ending its service with thirty-two officers and five hundred thirty men on its rolls.
                    Its losses had been two officers and eighty enlisted men, killed or mortally wounded and four
                    officers and two hundred fifty men, who died of disease, a total of three hundred thirty-six.
            There was, of course, another reception at 
                        Indianapolis
                     with addresses by Governor Morton, General Slack, and Colonels 
                        Milton
                     S. Robinson and John A. McLaughlin. The Regiment was discharged the next day, November
                    2, 1865.
            In 1883, the regiment held its first re-union at North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana, and because of the fact that most of the men of the Forty-seventh had come
                    from closely continguous territory, these annual events were continued for many years. At the
                    twenty-sixth annual re-union, held at Hunting-ton in 1908, the roster was signed by 130 members.
            General Slack was commissioned a Brevet Major General of volunteers on March 13, 1865, "for
                    gallant and meritorious service in the field during the war". He was mustered out January
                    15, 1866, and died at 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana, on June 28, 1881.
            The drummer-boy, Henry Lawson Bert, became a merchant tailor, first in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and later in Edinburgh, 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Huntington
                    . He died at 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, on December 8, 1910.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [THE LETTERS]
                                    
                                        
                                 Fort Curtis, 
                                        Helena
                                    , Ark.,
                              
                                        March the —, 1863
                                    
                                    Sister Dear:—
                                
                        I seat myself this morning to try to write you a few lines to let you know that I
                                    received your letter and was glad to hear that you was well and hear that 
                                        Benton
                                     got home safe. I have been well for a  long time and as long as I keep my health I am very
                                    well satisfied. I just come from meeting. I heard the General preach8 he said he was in the hands of the rebels for six months he was taken at Pea
                                        Ridge.9 he says the prisoners was almost naked when they
                                    whre [were] exchanged, that is those that were with him.
                        I have been some time writing this letter. I will try and end it up in a different
                                        style.10 I will tell you something about a fight there was
                                    in town. There was a lot of soldiers come down the river on some boats this morning
                                    and the officers would not let them get off the boats and they tried to Break guard
                                    and the officers ordered the guards to shoot and one of the guards shot a soldier in
                                    the leg and then one of the privates belonging to the boat run out and cocked the
                                    pistol under the lieutenant's nose and dared him to speak and he stood
                                    there and never said a word. So then the 11th Ind. went down to settle the fuss and
                                    they soon had it stopped and there was three men shot in the operation but only one
                                        killed.11
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Paducah, Ky.,
                              
                                        April 3rd, 1864.
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Ann:
                                
                        It is with great pleasure that I take this opportunity to write you a letter. I am
                                    well at present and hoping that when this comes to hand may find you enjoying the
                                    same good health. I will tell you something about our travels from home.
                        We left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on the 30th day of March, 1864, and got to Mattoon, Ill., on the 31st
                                    early in the morning and was called out in line of battle to fight the Butternuts
                                    but we only Captured two of them but the citizens of Mattoon was out at the same
                                    time and they caught 42 of them. So that morning we started out for Ciaro [sic] about 10 o'clock but I don't know what they
                                    done with the butternuts but I hope they hung them for I know they need it. So we
                                    went gliding along on the cars and the next morning about 1 o'clock found
                                    ourselves at Cairo so we stayed in the cars till day light for it was raining very
                                    Hard and a little after day light it checked raining and we got off the cars and
                                    went on a boat named N. W. Thomas and we had just got our things on and loaded and
                                    we had to move off and go into the barracks and there we stayed till the next
                                    morning or till the afternoon rather at 1 o'clock and then we had orders to
                                    go on the boat Raymond to go to Paducah, Ky., and we started about 3
                                    o'clock and the next morning found ourselves at this place. The reason we
                                    was ordered here was that the rebels had been here and destroyed a good part of town
                                    and tried to take the place but failed and they are looking for them in again and we
                                    come here to help them out or fight them if they come in. 
                              
                                 8 Not identified. Possibly the Brigade commander,
                                            Brig. Gen. Frederick Saloman.
                              
                                 9 The battle of Pea Ridge, Ark., was fought, March
                                            6–8, 1862, between the Federal force commanded by Brig. Gen.
                                            Samuel K. Curtis and the Confederate force of Maj. Gen. Earl 
                                                Van
                                             Dorn.
                              
                                 10 The letter is in printed characters to the end of
                                            the first line of the second paragraph. The remainder is in longhand, on the
                                            opposite side of the sheet.
                              
                                 11 I find no further reference to this incident,
                                            illustrative of the lax discipline in the Union array as late as March,
                                            1862.
                           
                                     The fight happened last Friday a week.12 I guess we will start for 
                                        New Orleans
                                     prety soon We are still on the boat and expect to bee till we get to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , but we dont know when we will get there. …
                        I will tell you now about my Chicken. When I came from home it was in my Haversack
                                    [.] spoiled and I did not get to eat a bit of it. My walnuts was good yet and so was
                                    the sugar and I could not eat it all in two or three trials. …
                     
                  
               
                
            [The stay in Paducah was not long, and the Forty-seventh soon joined Gen. Bank's second Red
                    River expedition, which got under way in March, in co-operation with the navy. This is the
                    expedition referred to in the next letter. The fifteen days of fighting included Monett's
                    Ferry, Cane River crossings, April 23, 
                        Alexandria
                    , April 30 to May 10, with engagements at Muddy Bayou on May 2 to 6, and at
                    Graham's Plantation on May 5. The "ten days' hard marching"
                    refers to the retreat to Morganza, which was reached on May 20 after an engagement at Mansura May
                    16. Apparently the drum major never did come back, as Henry L. Bert became drum major or
                    "principal musician" of the regiment during his second enlistment and was
                    discharged as of that grade.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Morganizes [sic] Bend,
                              
                                        May 29th, 1864
                                    
                                    Dear sister Ann,
                                
                        I now sit down to try to write you a few lines as we have lately come off of a very
                                    hard expedition of marching and fighting. We was skirmishing about 15 days all
                                    together and then after that 10 days hard marching, day and night both and very
                                    scarce of rations but it is all over now We are in camp close to the
                                        Mississippi River. It has been just one week since we come
                                    here and we moved camp today. We was about a quarter of a mile from the river and
                                    today [Sunday] we moved down close to the river so we would be handy to watter. I
                                    went out this forenoon to get some brush to make a shade for my mess and it was
                                    about a mile to the woods where we went to get brush and it was very tiresome work
                                    and when we come back we got our dinners and then went out to get some green corn to
                                    make beds, we dont mind that in this country. We just use it the same as we do
                                    anything else for anything that we want it for. The weather here is very hot and
                                    dry. We have not had any rain of any account since the 23rd of April but the river
                                    has been very high but is falling now. We have fixed up Camp as if we was going to
                                    stay here some time but we dont know anything about it.
                        I have a great deal of work to do now for I have to attend to beating all the calls.
                                    We; have ten drummers and ten fifers and I am put at the head of them all and have
                                    to boss them all and that is what makes the work. Our drum major has never come back
                                    yet since 
                              
                                 12 Gen. Nathan 
                                                Bedford
                                             Forrest attacked Fort Anderson at Paducah on March 25, but was
                                            beaten off by the garrison.
                           
                                     we have been back and dont know wheather he
                                    will or not. …
                        
                                    Henry L. Bert, Co. I, 47th Regt. Ind. V. V. Inft.13
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [On the back of the same sheet on which the preceeding letter was written, was a short letter to the
                    drummer's brother John.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I now sit down to write you a few lines to lett you know that I am well as ever. I
                                    would like to see you now and be with you this summer and help you and pap tend corn
                                    but it is so that I cant but I think next summer the war will be over. I hope so
                                    anyhow.
                        We have a table fixed up to eat off of and to write on. There is three other boys
                                    writing letters on the same table. We have a nice camp now to what we have had in
                                    the last month. Mr. Paul and Ben-ton and Mr. Cope's all well now, I
                                    believe.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Some of the modifications of the tintype, oftentimes delicately tinted, were fragile, and while the
                    cases were usually small, a number of them must have been quite a burden during a campaign, as the
                    following letter indicates.
            The next fight of the regiment was that at Atchafalaya Bayou, on July 28, which probably is the
                    "scout" referred to in the letter of Aug. 3 written from Morganza's
                    Bend.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp 47th Regt. Ind. V. V.
                                  Algiers, La.,
                              
                                        July 21st 1864
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Ann,
                                
                        I now seat myself to answer your interesting letter which I received a few days ago
                                    at the same time I received one from Mother and Mary and John. They was not all of
                                    one date but come the same time and I tell you I was glad to hear from home for I
                                    had not heard from there for a long time before. You wanted to know whether I had
                                    your pictures yet or not. Of course I would keep them till the last but the cases is
                                    nearly all come to pieces and if you will all get photographs for me instead of them
                                    it would be a great deal handier for me and as soon as you send me the photographs I
                                    will send the pictures and the money to pay for them, all except Eliza's
                                    and hers you cannot get it very handy for she is too small.
                        Now I will tell you that we are going to leave here before long. We had orders today
                                    but did not go. We had everything packed up and ready to leave at a
                                    moment's warning but after a few hours was ordered to put up our tents and
                                    we would stay a day or two longer and if we do I will write to mother and John
                                    tomorrow. There is two regiments going away today. One is the 8th Ind. and the other
                                    the 24th 
                                        Iowa
                                    , which will both go on one boat, a Gulf steamer which will take them on
                                    the gulf where we will go.
                        
                           
                              13 By its re-enlistment, old Forty-seventh became the
                                        Forty-seventh Regiment of Indiana Veteran Volunteer Infantry.
                           
                              14 Mary and John were Henry's half-sister and
                                        half-brother., Miss Mary Bert, the only one of the family now living, resides in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                        
                        
                        The 11th has been gone for ever since day before yesterday and when we go will not
                                    have much chance to get mail. I don't expect to get any more mail for a
                                    month after we leave here. …
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 47th Ind. Vet. Vol.
                              Morganzas Bend,
                           
                                    August 3rd 1864.
                                
                        We are now back to this miserable hole of Morganza. I would rather stay anyplace else
                                    for we cannot get anything at All. I hope we will leave before long for I want to
                                    get away from here. The very first day we got here we got orders to go the next day
                                    on a scout and that I did not like at all but had to go. We got up at 1.
                                    o'clock and started. Marched on till after daylight and then got our
                                    breakfast and then went till 10 o'clock and then had a fight which lasted
                                    till after 12. o'clock and then we slowly retreated back with the loss of 7
                                    men wounded out of the regiment. Eat our dinners between two and three
                                    o'clock and then went to camp. Got in about dark. Our whole march was about
                                    32 miles. It was an awful hard day's march being very mudy coming in for it
                                    rained all afternoon. …
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp 47th Ind. Vet. Vol.,
                                 Morganzas Bend,
                              
                                        August 16th, '64
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Ann;
                                
                        I now seat myself to write you a few lines this morning as it is a nice cool pleasent
                                    morning and I have not much to write but I will try to give you some of the news of
                                    camp. I guess that we will go to Mobile before long.15 We have
                                    the promise of the first troops that leaves here. We got on a boat one night to
                                    leave and got everything loaded on and stayed on the boat till morning and then had
                                    to get off and go into camp in the same place.
                        We are living fine now. We get light bread every day and plenty of other rations.
                        We have a great deal of rain here. It has been raining now for the last three days
                                    but has cleared off now and has got to be very hot again. These coats we have got is
                                    very near wore out and the Regt. is going to send for a new suit soon again.
                        We have not drawed pay but once since we left home. We will have four months pay due
                                    us the last of this month and another $50.00 bounty. I dont know when we
                                    will get it but I expect not anyways soon.
                        Our drummers is all out drilling except me and I am on camp duty.
                        We only have one hours drill in a day and that is at half past seven. They are out
                                    now and will be in about half past 8. o'clock and then at 9 is guard
                                    mounting and then nothing more till Dinner call and then Dress parade at six
                                    o'clock. …
                        Yesterday was my birthday and last night there was one of the 
                              
                                 15 Admiral Farragut had defeated the Confederate fleet
                                            at Mobile on August 5, but it was not until the following March that the
                                            Forty-seventh was ordered to that point.
                           
                                     drummers tried to pound me and he was trying to
                                    pull me down a hill and I tore every stitch of his shirt off of him and then I got
                                    away from him and while I was gone he hid my bed close and thought I would not find
                                    them but I soon found them and went to bed.
                     
                  
               
                
            [The Forty-seventh remained at the "miserable hole" of Morganza until September,
                    except for an expedition to 
                        Clinton
                    , Aug. 23 to 29. It was then sent to St. Charles, 
                        Arkansas
                    , remaining there from Sept. 3 to Oct. 23, when it went on an expedition to
                    Duvall's Bluff. The next move was to 
                        Little Rock
                    , as is told in the letter of Nov. 19. The regiment did not, however, remain in 
                        Little Rock
                     all winter—that was no more accurate than the prediction that they would be
                    at home by the next summer. Nevertheless, the drummer-boy was not far wrong in seeing the beginning
                    of the end in the reelection of 
                        Lincoln
                    . He had already received the news of the re-election of Governor Morton of Indiana. On
                    Nov. 25, only six days after this letter was written, the Regiment was returned to 
                        Memphis
                    , remaining there until January, except for an expedition to Moscow, Dec. 21 to 31. On
                    Jan. 1, it was ordered to 
                        New Orleans
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp Near 
                                       Little Rock
                                    , Ark.,
                              
                                        November 19th, 1864
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Ann;
                                
                        I now take this opportunity of trying to write you a few lines to inform you that I
                                    am still a little farther out in 
                                        Arkansas
                                     near 
                                        Little Rock
                                     where we have been for about three Days and I expect we will stay here
                                    till winter. When we came here we was as wet as we could be for when we got off the
                                    cars it was about nine o'clock and it looked about as much like rain as I
                                    ever saw it but it did not rain till about 1. o'clock and then it commenced
                                    raining and we was out dores [doors], had not a tent nor a house to crawl into but
                                    had to take it till about 10 o'clock the next day and then we got into some
                                    houses which some other soldiers had built and had left a few days ago and gone to
                                    fort Smith but they had left some of their sick here and they are here in the camp
                                    with us but we dont know whether we will stay in these houses all winter or not or
                                    whether we will have to go out when these other soldiers come back. There is some
                                    talk of them going some other place when they come back and if they do we will have
                                    the quarters all to ourselves but if they dont we will have to build some of our
                                    own.
                        Well I was speaking of the rain when we first came here and that rain is not over
                                    yet. It is still raining and has been ever since we came here. We have not seen the
                                    sun since we came here but for all the rain it does not get muddy here like it does
                                    in some places for it is very hilly and the hills is very gravely.
                        This is a very nice place about as nice a place as 
                                        Noblesville
                                     only  a great deal larger but
                                    nothing to compare with the capital of Indiana and it is very nice country around
                                    here too.
                        There is a great many soldiers here now and I think they will stay here all winter
                                    and; then in the Spring start out through the country after the rebels. I think that
                                    is the movements of this army but there is no telling what will be done for we have
                                    been knocked around all summer and done nothing and it may be done so this winter,
                                    but I hope we will all come home next summer and I think we will for we have won one
                                    of the grand victories already. The reason I say this is that we have got our
                                    Governor again and that is not the best yet for, we hope soon to hear of the
                                    re-election of our Noble President that we have long wished to have four years
                                    longer and when we hear of that I think we will not have to stay in the field much
                                    longer, at least I hope not.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Western Branches of the U.S. Christian
                                        Commission
                           
                                    The U. S. Christian Commission Sends this as the
                                        soldier's messenger his to home. Let it hasten to those who
                                        wait for tidings.16
                           
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chicago:
                                 
                            J. V. Farwell, Chairman;
                              B. F. Jacobs, Secretary 
                                    Peoria
                                .
                              A. G. Tyng, Chairman;
                            Wm.
                              Reynolds, Secretary 
                                    St. Louis
                                ;
                               Isaac S. Smyth, Cr.;
                            J. H. Parsons,
                              Cor. Sec'y
                              U.S. Christian Commission Rooms,
                            
                              —–186-
                           
                                    
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                       New Orleans
                                    ,
                              
                                        Jan. 13th, 1865
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Annie:
                                
                        Now I will tell you something about our camp. We are in a low place about four feet
                                    below the level of the river but there is a large leve [levee] that keeps the river
                                    in its place but the river is not always this high. It is about as high as it ever
                                    gets and when it is at its lowest stage it is about forty feet lower than it is now
                                    and it is always very muddy water and that is all the kind of water we have to drink
                                    but it is the purest water we have had to drink in this country. Our camp is
                                    perfectly dry now for it has been clear for three or four days but we have a very
                                    muddy place when it rains for it gets very muddy when it rains rite away and it is
                                    about ankle deep all over the camp. You spoke about going to school and learning so
                                    fast but I tell you when I get my money I intend to go to the city and get me some
                                    school books if I can and try to learn something too for there are a great many men
                                    in the camp that can give me lessons in all kind of school books and if I dont learn
                                    anything I will try and keep from forgetting everything I did know.
                        Well the weather. It is very pleasant now and has been for three or four days but
                                    Jack Frost showed himself a little this morning again but had all dried off now
                                    again and I declare I never saw pleasanter weather in my life for this time of year.
                        
                           
                              16 The stationary provided by the U. S. Christian
                                        Commission will bring to the minds of World War veterans that which was provided
                                        for them by the Y.M.C.A. and other agencies.
                        
                        
                        Well I guess I cannot think of much more to write this time but I will promise to
                                    write more the next time but I wish you would write oftener than you have been. Mary
                                    has been writing every week and I wish you would write between times if you please
                                    so that I can get a letter from home twice a week at least. …
                     
                  
               
                
            [The long-awaited pay day did not arrive while the regiment remained at 
                        New Orleans
                    , so presumably the drummer-boy did not have the opportunity to resume his studies as he
                    had planned. In later life, however, he did attempt to make up for the education missed during his
                    service in the Civil War, particularly by applying himself to study of the Bible and of ancient
                    history to such a degree that he was qualified as a local preacher in the Methodist Episcopal
                    church. The Forty-seventh had been, since July, in the Nineteenth Army Corps, Department of the
                    Gulf. It was now assigned to the Reserve Corps, soon to be again numbered the Thirteenth Army Corps
                    in the new Military Division of West 
                        Mississippi
                    , for the long-expected campaign against Mobile. The military division was commanded by
                    Maj. Gen. E. R. S. Canby, the corps by Maj. Gen. Gordon Granger. Gen. Slack commanded the First
                    Brigade to which the Forty-seventh was assigned. At times this brigade was commanded by Lt. Col.
                    McLaughlin of the Forty-seventh, and its division was the First, commanded by Brig. Gen. J. C.
                    Veatch. Spanish Fort was invested on March 26. The assault on and capture of Fort Blakely on April 9
                    is described in the letter of April 10.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp near Blakely, Ala.,
                              
                                        April 10th, 1865
                                    
                                    Well Anna:
                                
                        I received your letter yesterday evening which was Sunday and while I was reading it
                                    there was a tremendous artillery firing commenced which aroused my attention and I
                                    stoped reading and went up close to the skirmish line and in a few moments our men
                                    commenced yelping and I knew what was up. A charge was then going on and in about
                                    five or ten minutes more the firing ceased and another more strong and louder yell
                                    was utered and was continually kept up for more than half an hour and I rushed over
                                    with a lot more of our regiment to see! the result of the charge. There our men had
                                    them (the Rebs) perfectly demoralized and were all takn prisoners about 25 hundred
                                    of them. Several of our men killed and wounded but have not learned what the exact
                                    loss, of either side but I think that we took about 4,000 prisoners in both forts
                                    but supposed to be the most at fort Blakely.17 Fort Spanish was
                                    taken on the evening of the 8th. 
                              
                                 17 The prisoners numbered 3,423, according to the
                                            account in Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, IV, 411.
                                            (Richard B. Irwin, "Land Operations Against
                                        Mobile.")
                           
                                     I dont know what was going on there no time
                                    after we left, not till after it was taken.
                        Two of the rebel gunboats surrendered to our infantry and the rest has skined down to
                                    Mobile or some other place.18 I will give you a small sketch of
                                    our forts and our camps and line of march19 and the next time I
                                    will send home another one if we do any great movements. You spoke about having a
                                    nice Ex-e-bi-tion but I dont think you can compare it with our Ex-pe-di-tion.
                                    …
                        
                           
                                        Richmond
                                     and Petersburgh are both Evacuated and Grant and Sherman are rite at
                                    their heels and if they are not very carefull they will be taken in before the 4th
                                    of July and I am almost sure we will have this place and everything around here by
                                    that time and then where are they then. The war is surely over then when both these
                                    armies are taken in. The so-called confederacy is played out and then we will once
                                    more have peace and hapiness restored to our once hapy country.
                        We are a great ways apart now but I hope and think before another year shall roll
                                    around we shall meet again if life is spared and that we will again have peace and a
                                    better Government than ever. For one reason slavery will- be abolished forever and
                                    this war will learn Southren people some sense and that they will never think of
                                    making war again.
                        Our regiment was so lucky as to not get into the charge at blakely. We have lost no
                                    men out of our regiment since the 27 of March and very small then. I must close for
                                    the present. I am well as usual. Our men are now prety close to Mobile, some of
                                    them. We are about 12 mile but some are within 3 miles and still marching on to
                                    victory. Write soon.
                        
                                    Your brother,
                                    Henry
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [The last two letters in the collection were written from Camp Spring Hill, 
                        Alabama
                    , after the capture of Mobile. By this time the war was nearly over, with the surrender
                    of "old Lee and his whole army" and of "old Rebel Dick Taylor,"
                    although they had not yet heard of Johston's surrender in 
                        North Carolina
                    . The pay, overdue for a year, at last arrived, as is told in the last letter.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp Spring Hill, Ala.,
                              
                                        April 30th, 1865
                                    
                                    Dear Sister Anna:
                                
                        Once more I have the pleasure of writing you a few lines as it has been several weeks
                                    since I have written and I believe the first time since the capture of Mobile. I
                                    dont suppose that I can give you any news but will tell that I am still in the land
                                    of the living and one among the heartyest of them.
                        This is another Sabbath morning, a beautiful day, and a day of Thanksgiving and
                                    Prayer which was set apart by Major General Canby 
                              
                                 18 The two gunboats were probably the Gaines and the Morgan, the two ships that
                                            escaped Farragut's forces in the battle of Mobile Bay.
                              
                                 19 The Sketch mentioned has not been found.
                           
                                     in this department to be kept holy, no work of
                                    any kind to be done, but as our company is all out on picket but me and is a very
                                    lonesome time for me, I thought it my duty to write a few lines to my beloved sister
                                    and I thought it was as good a way as I could do to wile [while] away an hour or so
                                    of this weary camp life, but Sister I think this thing of "war" is
                                    about done in this once hapy country.
                        Soon we shall have peace once more restored to our hapy land, all will be united
                                    again, Slavery crushed from out the land and then "we" poor
                                    soldiers shall come home and enjoy the sweet comforts of home; and friends. This I
                                    hope will come this summer, which every soldier expects.
                        We have been getting good news for some time about the capture of so many prisoners
                                    and old Lee and his whole army, Mobile and vicinity. Yesterday old Rebel Dick Taylor
                                    came into Mobile and surrendered up his army. Had about 5,000 men, they say. I have
                                    saw them. Yet everything has been cheering but among all the good news we received
                                    some bad news about the death of Abe 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , but at least the Rebs has not gained anything by that. I think that
                                    Andrew Johnson will kill every leader of the confederacy which ought to be done. The
                                    rebles has no army on the East side of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     but the reble General Johnson and he has but a small force, nothing to
                                    compare with his opposition, but there is a few rebles west of the river but they
                                    can do no harm where they are. A few days ago there was a reble gunboat came out of
                                    the mouth of red river with our collors [colors] floating at half mast in honor of
                                    the president's death and all her crue [crew] on deck dressed in blue.
                                    Playing the opossum on us, run down the Miss, river almost like lightening. Went
                                    down just below the city of 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and then hoisted their reble collors. Thought she was away from all the
                                    Yankees but awfully mistaken. She was captured somewhere close to the mouth of the
                                    Miss, river. Didn't get away at all.20
                        
                        Well for something else, this morning we mustered for one year's pay. Just
                                    12 months' pay due us today but not getting it. The talk is now that we are
                                    to get 10 months' pay on Tuesday but I dont know whether we will or not,
                                    but the paymaster is in the city sure now with plenty of money. We have almost
                                    forgotten what pay is for we have not got any for some time. Well I will close for
                                    the present. Well as usual. Write soon. Excuse this paper Anna for I have but little
                                    and must be saving till the pay comes.
                        
                                    From your affectionate brother.21
                           
                                    Henry L.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Camp Spring Hill, Ala.,
                              
                                        May 14th, 1865
                                    
                                    Sister Anna:
                                
                        Once more I have the pleasure of writing you a few lines in answer 
                              
                                 20 Apparently the gunboat referred to was the Webb, of which Admiral Mahan wrote that "the ram
                                            Webb, which had heretofore escaped capture, ran out of the Red River in
                                            April with a load of cotton and made a bold dash for the sea. She succeeded
                                            in getting by several vessels before suspected, and even passed 
                                                New Orleans
                                            ; but the telegraph was faster than she, and before reaching the
                                            forts she was headed off by the 
                                                Richmond
                                            , run ashore, and burned." Alfred T. Mahan, The Gulf and Inland Waters (
                                                New York
                                            , 1883), 217.
                              
                                 21 Written in a very fine hand on a half-sheet, cut
                                            lengthwise, or ruled paper The last six lines are crowded into about an inch
                                            of space.
                           
                                     to yours I received yesterday evening and I now
                                    sit down to answer it. We i have been payed off about a week ago yesterday and I
                                    have already told some of the folks that I have sent home 175 dollars and will
                                    probably send 25 dollars more in the course of two weeks. …
                        We got orders a day or two ago to draw an extra pair of shoes to each man and one
                                    suit of other cloths. Some of the boys thinks we are going to 
                                        Texas
                                     but I dont think we will now for I think the rebles will surrender
                                    before we get there and so ends the war. There is nothing for us to do on this side
                                    of the river now. I think we will be at home before the first of September at least
                                    I hope so—
                        Well, Anna: Something else. I cannot write much this time but will give you what I
                                    have to say.
                        We have a beautiful camp here on the top of a nice hill and the beautifulest springs
                                    here that I ever saw, more springs than can be counted and some of them the largest
                                    that I ever saw. They roll out as large as a quart cup in streams and we have got
                                    shades put up all over camp and the pretiest camp we ever had and if it would close
                                    the war by staying here I would love to stay here till the war is over.
                        Well, now I have given you a good description of our camp and I have nothing more of
                                    Importance to write this time. Mr. Paul and 
                                        Benton
                                     is well and so is Mr. Cope and I would ask you and Mary to say more
                                    about Mr. Cope's folks for he comes to me everytime the mail comes and ask
                                    me if I got a letter from home and how his folks is. I always tell him or let him
                                    read the letters when you say anything about them.
                        So no more at present. Excuse this short letter. I will try and do better next time.
                                    Write soon as possible.
                        
                                    From your Brother
                                    Henry L.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Our First Great West in Revolutionary War, Diplomacy and Politics (The Filson Club
                        Publications, No. 36). By Temple Bodley. The Filson Club, 
                        Louisville
                    , 1938. Pp. iv, 321, illustrated, $6.00.
            The author, by his title, means the region bounded by the Appalachian Mountains, the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the Great Lakes, and the northern line of 
                        Florida
                    . His discussion centers in that part of it claimed by 
                        Virginia
                     under its charter of 1609. His subtitle states very clearly his thesis; "How
                    it was won in war and politics under 
                        Virginia
                    's lead and under John Jay's in diplomacy." Dr. Bodley, now
                    in his eighty-sixth year, has spent many years, especially since retiring from the practice of law,
                    in the study of the West in the American Revolution. His George Rogers Clark (1926), his History of 
                            Kentucky
                         before the 
                            Louisiana
                         Purchase (1928), and the present volume were largely drawn from the manuscript
                    of a projected, but unfinished, "History of our Revolutionary West in War, Diplomacy and
                    Politics." The present volume embodies some of the material in the two former publications,
                    but presents much additional material upon the struggle for the West.
            Under chapter headings of "Politics," "War," and
                    "Diplomacy," Dr. Bodley describes respectively the contention over western lands
                    in the Continental Congress "between states north of the Potomac and two powerful land
                    companies on one side, and the four states south of the Potomac on the other," the
                    campaigns of George Rogers Clark, and the negotiations (perhaps haggling would be a better word) by
                    the 
                        United States
                    , and chiefly by John Jay, against 
                  Spain,
                            France
               , and Great Britain for title to the land
                    between the Appalachian Mountains and the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            The land company ventures, especially the Indiana and Vandalia schemes, are drawn as shrewd,
                    unscrupulous speculations, are credited with great influence before the Revolution in 
                        England
                     and after the outbreak of war in the Continental Congress, and are held to be the prime
                    force in the opposition of the states without western lands to 
                        Virginia
                    's western claims. The 
                        New York
                     deed of cession, dated March 1, 1781, is described as a pretense and the 
                        New York
                     legislature and members of Congress are represented in the whole transaction as
                    conspiring against 
                        Virginia
                    . The influence of 
                        Maryland
                    
                     in the development of "political expansion under the
                    sovereign control of Congress" stressed by Herbert B. Adams, is! denied and the Adams
                    monograph, it is asserted, "fairly bristles with errors of fact and inference."
            In the negotiations for peace, Dr. Bodley scarcely deems worthy of mention the theory that Lord
                    Shelburne agreed to the boundary of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the Great Lakes as a gesture of generosity to the 
                        United States
                    . Rather, he interprets the English insistence upon compensation for loyalists'
                    property and other contentions as a disguise for the dominant desire of the English to keep the 
                        United States
                     east of the Appalachian Mountains.
            In some respects Our First Great West reads like a polemic against land companies
                    of the revolutionary era, against states north of Virgina, against the Spanish, French and English
                    ministries, and against what might be called standard 
                        United States
                     historical writings. At points, the author's indictments are well founded and
                    supported by original sources. In many places, however, he overshoots the mark and gives hostile
                    interpretations based entirely on his own inferences. He is inclined to discredit everything and
                    every person not making for 
                        Virginia
                    's possession and later the 
                        United States
                    ' possession of the West and to credit too much anything or person agreeing
                    with his own view. A curious illustration of this tendency is the emphasis upon 
                        Franklin
                    's age and susceptibility to French flattery whenever he disagreed with, John
                    Jay, and the emphasis upon his wisdom and shrewdness whenever he worked with Jay.
            Dr. Bodley apparently has not made use of some of the important recent publications which cover part,
                    or the whole, of his subject (and which embody additional sources, such as Thomas Perkins
                    Abernethy's Western Lands and the American Revolution (1937), and the
                    monograph of Theodore C. and Marguerite Jenison Pease, George Rogers Clark and the
                        American Revolution in 
                            Illinois
                        
                (1929). The number of misprints is larger than it should be, though most of
                    them are not misleading (e.g., p. 130, footnote, and p. 182, in which 1794 is printed instead of
                    1784.) These criticisms, however, do not imply that the volume is not a valuable and important
                    contribution to our understanding of the movements which affected the West in the Revolution. It is
                    an incisive attack upon many traditional versions and upon some 
                    scholarly versions of these movements. It must be reckoned with in any attempt to reach definitive
                    conclusions. "Appendix A" makes available the; curious "Six Nation Deed
                    for Traders" (the "retribution" grant of "Indiana") of
                    November 3, 1768. The Filson Club has performed a notable service in publishing the volume.
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        , VI, The Territory of 
                            Mississippi
                        , 1809–1817 (Continued). Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin
                    Carter. Department of State, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., 1938. Pp: 893, $1.50.
            Dr. Clarence E. Carter, of the Division of Research and Publication in the Department of State, has
                    brought our Volume VI of the Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . This is the second and concluding volume of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Territorial Papers. The papers in Volume V covered the period from the creation of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory in 1798 to 1809. Volume VI, which covers the period 1809–1817,
                    treats chiefly of the administration of David Holmes who became governor in May, 1809, and served
                    until the Territory became a State in 1817.
            In a brief review, only a few of the many problems that troubled Governor Holmes can be mentioned.
                    Many of the papers show the slowness of travel and the uncertainty of postal service. Perhaps two
                    examples drawn from the letters of Holmes himself will suffice. In one of his first letters to
                    President 
                        Madison
                    , Holmes remarked: "I left 
                        Virginia
                     for this territory early in May and arrived in Natchez on the last day of
                    June" (p. 12). In June, 1815, Holmes wrote to the President asking that he be allowed to
                    make a trip to 
                        Virginia
                     in September on account of his health. The letter did not even reach 
                        Washington
                     until two months after the date which the Governor had set to begin his journey. Within
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory, which at that time included the present State of 
                        Alabama
                    , there were many communities that had no postal service. Citizens were constantly
                    urging, through petitions to the Governor and Congress, an expansion of territorial mail facilities.
            If Governor Holmes had been asked to name the two problems that gave him most trouble, his
                    answer—judging  by the papers in the
                    volume—would have been Indians and land claims. War with the Indians, who were supported
                    by allies in Spanish 
                        Florida
                    , disputes over ceded lands, the opening of roads and the extension of mail routes were
                    a few of the major difficulties. Many proclamations of public land sales and reports from the land
                    offices are included. Petitions frequently protested against intruders upon the Indian lands or the
                    public lands. Apparently, the usual procedure in dealing with squatters was to evict them and burn
                    their cabins. Some of the petitioners thought this treatment should be supplemented by arrest and
                    imprisonment.
            The book is a storehouse of information for those interested in 
                        Mississippi
                     territorial history, but it is more than that. Much of the material is valuable for any
                    student of American history who is interested in sources on Southern territorial history or on the
                    relations of the 
                        United States
                     with 
                  Florida, Spain
               , and Great Britain during the critical years of the War of
                    1812.
            As in previous volumes, the editor's work has been well done. The explanatory notes, cross
                    references, and excellent index are all very satisfactory. The inclusion of a briek sketch of the
                    political and economic background of the period would have aided the reader in placing the documents
                    in their proper prospective. Likewise, a map making clear the extent of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory and the location of some of the most important land cessions, post roads, et cetera, would make many of the items mentioned more understandable.
            GEORGE C. OSBORN.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Iron Manufacture in the Eighteenth Century. By Arthur Cecil Bining. 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Historical Commission, 
                        Harrisburg
                    , 1938. Pp. 227, illustrated.
            This very scholarly manograph is Volume IV of the Publications of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Historical Commission. As the author very correctly states in the
                    "Preface," the study is "the result of intensive research on one unit of
                    eighteenth century American industrial life." The book deals with the beginnings of the
                    iron industry in America, a period when the capital involved was small, the knowledge of iron
                    manufacture meagre, and the processes employed very crude. Every chapter, and indeed every
                    paragraph, reveals that the  author did not write until he
                    garnered and interpreted the facts.
            The treatment of the "iron plantations," so widely scattered over 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , is a fascinating story. The iron-making process, the changes in the means and methods
                    of production, the ironmasters of the province who played important roles in the economic and
                    political development of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the mansions of the masters, the work and homes of the laborers, the mines, the
                    forges, the furnaces—all these are carefully and even eloquently portrayed in the
                    narrative. The last chapter (IX) of the little volume is an excellent summary of the history of the
                    iron industry in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     from 1716 to 1800. Handicapped by lack of capital, by the money and banking situation
                    and by trade restrictions, nevertheless, "down to the period of the Revolution, the iron
                    industry of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had achieved a normal growth." The author makes the very interesting (and no
                    doubt correct) observation that but for the high stage of development reached by iron production
                    before 1775, "the colonists would have been helpless in the struggle" for
                    independence.
            An extensive and very valuable bibliography accompanies the little volume and the index is adequate.
                    The author deserves high praise for his careful research and careful writing. He has prepared a
                    volume that will prove to be very useful to teachers and students of economic history, not only in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , but elsewhere, especially in every state where iron production was carried on in the
                    eighteenth century. The book will also provide fascinating reading for any intelligent person who
                    may pick it up.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Early Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Politics. By Russell J. Ferguson. University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , 1938. Pp. xv, 300, map, illustrations.
            Every general work on American history, short or long, has given some attention to political
                    conditions in early western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Comments in such works have usually been based on limited information, and it is well
                    that a monograph dealing with the topic has at last appeared. The volume covers roughly the half
                    century following 1773, with the quarter century lying between 1790 and 1815 strongly  stressed. A trained student, working on such a fascinating period of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     history with quite adequate sources at his command, could not fail to produce a worth
                    while volume.
            It was in the era of the Whisky Insurrection that the Federalist and Republican parties were
                    gradually forming behind 
                        Hamilton
                     and Jefferson. It was a period of much confusion when some of the great actors on the
                    stage did not understand the situation. Hamiltonians made a great deal of the overawing of the
                    insurrectionists of western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     by the army that marched across that state, and historians have since pretty generally
                    given 
                  Washington, Hamilton
                and the troops credit for saving the newly formed government.
                    At least they have credited them with carrying the federal government through the first dangerous
                    threat to its newly created national power. The statement of the author that the insurrection,
                    viewed in relation to the nation, "represented the first definite challenge to the
                    sovereignty of the federal government" seems too strong. The assertion in the remainder of
                    his sentence that "it also presented a definite challenge to the Federalist party"
                    (p. 120) accords more fully with the facts, in the opinion of the reviewer. Indeed the first
                    contention appears to be largely discredited by the matter presented in the remainder of the chapter
                    (pp. 129–131).
            The relationship of the Democratic Societies to the rebellion against the excise tax is briefly
                    treated (p. 125). Inasmuch as President 
                        Washington
                     placed much of the responsibility for the insurrection on these clubs, it would have
                    been well to treat them more fully. A recent article by William Miller of 
                        New York
                     University, entitled "The Democratic Societies and the Whisky
                    Insurrection" (
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Magazine of History and Biography, July, 1938) shows the need of presenting
                    the truth about these organizations.
            It is more excusable in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     than elsewhere during the presidencies of 
                        Washington
                    , Adams and Jefferson to use the terms Republicans, Democrats and Democratic Republicans
                    as interchangeable, but even there it is best to qualify the use of the latter two. The country-wide
                    party name for Jefferson's party was Republican, and to use either of the other names with
                    the same application too early is confusing.
            
            The effects of the rise of commerce and manufacturing in Western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , accompanied as was this development by the appearance of a more wealthy class, are
                    clearly presented. The democratic spirit that pervaded the western area of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in the period of the Whisky Insurrection, though it was somewhat quiescent for several
                    years, quickly revived under the leadership of 
                        Jackson
                    . Dr. Ferguson links the democracy of the period of the rise of the Jeffersonian
                    Republicans with the rallying of the farmers of western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Jackson
                     in the eighteen-twenties, declaring that this area "did not `go
                    democratic' then—it had always been democratic. 
                        Jackson
                     merely revived the spirit of a frontier democracy that had been lulled into inactivity
                    for a time by visions of industrial affluence."
            By his own admission in his Preface, the author has attempted "to portray the efforts of the
                    people in a predominantly pioneer agricultural society [early western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ] to find a solution for their social and economic problems through political
                    action." The reviewer feels that he has fulfilled his purpose well, and believes that all
                    students of party history will welcome his book.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               The Early Writings of Frederick 
                            Jackson
                         Turner. Compiled by Everett E. Edwards. University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 
                        Madison
                    , 1938. Pp. xi, 316.
            This very welcome volume not only reproduces the early writings of Turner but includes a list of all
                    of his writings and an essay on "Turner's Formative Period" by Fulmer
                    Mood. The "Preface" is from the pen of Louise Phelps Kellogg, and consists of
                    brief comments on the contents of the volume.
            The reprinted essays include: "The Significance of History" (1891);
                    "Problems in American History" (1892); "The Character and Influence of
                    the Indian Trade in 
                        Wisconsin
                    " (1891); and "The Significance of the Frontier in American
                    History" (1893). The last, the most famous of the writings of Turner, and indeed the most
                    famous essay ever written in the field of American history, was republished here in order to provide
                    a new copy of the essay in the form in which it was published by the American Historical Society,
                         this being the copy first read by Dr. Turner. In regard to
                    this essay, there is a comparison of the several versions in the Appendix (pp. 275–292).
            There is a "Bibliography of the Writings of Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner" (pp. 233–268), and a list of "References on the
                    Life and Work of Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner" (pp. 269–272), both compiled by Everett E. Edwards. No
                    efforts were spared to make the "Bibliography" complete. It is accompanied by a
                    foreword from the compiler, reviews by Turner are included, and reviews of his writings are listed.
                    The volume is provided with an "Index of Bibliography" and a "General
                    Index."
            The essay by Fulmer Mood, "Turner's Formative Period" (pp.
                    3–39), was prepared by Dr. Mood through the use of 
                        Wisconsin
                     sources. He was a student of Turner at 
                        Harvard
                     and is now on the staff of the History Department at the University of 
                        California
                    , He has written simply and well of the early years at 
                        Wisconsin
                     when Turner's conceptions of American history were being evolved. The story of
                    the beginnings of Turner's teaching at 
                        Wisconsin
                     in association with William F. Allen is charmingly told. The gradual development of the
                    ideas embodied in "The Significance of the Frontier in American History" is
                    skilfully traced, and attention is drawn to the nature of his new course, first offered in
                    1891–1892, that was to become the famous course, "The History of the
                    West," beginning at 
                        Jamestown
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                    . Perhaps the only fault to be found with the account of Turner's early period
                    is that it is too brief in relation to his work as a young university teacher, and, especially, in
                    regard to his training at Johns Hopkins University. One must remember, of course, that the object of
                    the volume is to provide a reprinting of the early writings and be thankful that the other good
                    features were added.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Isaac 
                            Franklin
                        : Slave Trader and Planter of the Old South. By Wendell Holmes Stephenson. 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, University, 
                        Louisiana
                    , 1938. Pp. xi, 368, illustrated, $3.00.
            This volume, of which the format is very attractive, includes an excellent biography of Isaac 
                        Franklin
                     (pp. 11–120),  which is preceded by an
                    "Introduction" of eight pages, and followed by two hundred seventeen pages of
                    documents. The documents are published in two sets: "Conveyances and Inventories,
                    1835–1850"; and "Financial Records, 1845–1850."
                    There is also an adequate bibliography and a well-prepared index.
            The author and compiler of the book is a professor of history at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University and the editor of the Journal of Southern History.
                    For several years, he has devoted much time to southern history, and he has been very successful in
                    his quest for sources relating to plantation life. The documents relating to Isaac 
                        Franklin
                     are of unusual interest for the light that they throw on different phases of the
                    plantation regime and slavery in the ante-bellum period of the South.
            The biography of 
                        Franklin
                    , trafficker in slaves and planter, though brief, is rich in content and written in well
                    chosen English. It reveals a keen understanding of southern history. A successful slave trader,
                    Isaac 
                        Franklin
                    , nevertheless, withdrew from this business before 1837 and devoted his later years to
                    his planting interests. It was in 1839, after his slave trading days were in the past, that 
                        Franklin
                     married the cultured daughter of a Presbyterian minister of 
                        Tennessee
                    . He was then fifty years of age, and lived but seven years longer.
            The documents included in Parts II and III of the book relate mainly to the period of 
                        Franklin
                    's life that succeeded his slave trading years. For this reason, the biography
                    deals rather fully with his traffic in slaves, and the narrative is based largely on other sources
                    than the 
                        Franklin
                     documents. Chapters III to IV, inclusive, "The 
                        Alexandria
                     Establishment," "From 
                        Alexandria
                     to Natches and 
                        New Orleans
                    ," "The Natches Trade," and "The 
                        New Orleans
                     Market" furnish an illuminating and unique story of the slave trade and will
                    be eagerly read by all students of the Old South. Chapters II and VII, dealing with "The 
                        Franklin
                     Family" and "The 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     Plantations" are just as interesting, though the ground broken is not so new.
            The documents (pp. 123-339) are of especial interest to persons doing research in southern history,
                    furnishing as they do the raw material from which history is constructed. All others who may have
                    the patience to go over the conveyances,  inventories, and
                    records of purchases and sales, can learn much. As the author suggests (p.
                    7)—"Probably in no other type of plantation record can the scholar find such a
                    variety of information on the prices of commodities and services." Even general readers
                    will grievously err if they give this volume but a passing notice because so large a portion of it
                    is devoted to documents. It is a valuable, interesting book that can be highly recommended to both
                    libraries and individuals.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            The Indiana unit of The Historical Records Survey, a nation-wide project directed by Dr. Luther H.
                    Evans under the auspices of the Federal Government, has made a survey of the records of all Indiana
                    Counties. Mr. Samuel J. Kagan has served as State Director for Indiana. The plan is to publish a
                    volume devoted to the records of each of the counties of the state. The volume for 
                        Marion
                     County (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) is No. 49 of the Indiana series. It was recently published by the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. It is a book of two hundred nineteen pages, which may be purcahsed from the Bureau for
                    $2.00. There is a "Foreword" by Harry L. Hopkins and a
                    "Preface" by Mr. Kagan. Great care has been exercised in the preparation of this
                    volume of the "Inventory of the County Archives of Indiana", and the State
                    Government will do itself and the people of Indiana great credit if funds are provided for the
                    publication of a similar volume for each of the remaining counties. It is impossible to outline the
                    contents of the 
                        Marion
                     County inventory so varied is the information presented, but the following paragraph
                    from the "Foreword" will help readers to get an understanding of what the book is
                    like: 
                        The inventories produced by The Historical Records Survey attempt to do more than) give
                            merely a list of records—they attempt further to sketch in the historical
                            background of the county or other unit of government, and to describe precisely and in
                            detail the organs and functions of the government agencies whose records they list. The
                            county, town and other local inventories for the entire country will when completed
                            constitute an encyclopedia of local government as well as a bibliography of local
                        archives.
                    
            
            In his article, "Recollection of Morgan's Raid," published in the June
                    issue, Mr. Middleton Robertson commented on the losses of farmers by reason of horses being
                    appropriated  by Confederates. The soldiers left behind worn out
                    horses which farmers made use of after caring for them until they were fit for work. Then these
                    horses that had been discarded were collected by agents of the Federal Government. Farmers later
                    made a concerted effort to obtain compensation for the animals appropriated by Morgan's
                    men, but according to Mr. Robertson the "claims were never allowed." Judge Lewis
                    B. Ewbank of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in a letter to the editor, cites a monograph that he wrote and published in the
                    Indiana Historical Society Publications (VII, 131–183) in which he
                    furnished information relative to the settlement of most of the claims. In his account (p. 182),
                    Judge Ewbank wrote: 
                        The people along the line of the flight and pursuit [of Morgan's troops], who had
                            been plundered by the invaders, and had then been compelled to furnish horses, food and
                            forage to their pursuers, waited several years for compensation for their losses. At length
                            in 1867, under a resolution of the General Assembly [of Indiana] a commission was appointed
                            to pass on the claims, amounting to nearly half a million dollars. The State finally allowed
                            and paid claims amounting to $413,599.48, of which more than $85,000
                            was paid for damages done and property taken in 
                                Washington
                             county, including the sacking of 
                                Salem
                            , and $1,161.97 for military supplies requisitioned for the State and
                            Federal troops in 
                                Marion
                             county. In the meantime many of the losers had sold their claims at a heavy
                            discount. After years of haggling the 
                                United States
                             Government finally reimbursed the State in part.
                    
            
            After his attention was called to the above statement, Mr. Robertson, who lives at Deputy, Indiana,
                    declared that he never heard of any such settlement, and added: 
                        I do not believe that my brother or any of his neighbors received anything for their horses
                            in question at any time. My theory is that many of the farmers dropped their claims when
                            their first efforts were failures. There are only two men here [at Deputy now] whose fathers
                            lost horses in the Morgan Raid and they are Dr. D. W. Robertson and (his cousin, W. E.
                            Robertson, and in both instances their evidence is negative. Both were about sixteen years
                            of age at the time Judge Ewbank alleges the payments were made, and they have no
                            recollection of any payment being made. …
                    
            
            
               The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of American Federal Union, with the
                    sub-title "A Study in Commerce and Politics", was recently issued by the Principia
                    Press of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. This scholarly volume, a work of facts and interpretation, was written by Dr.
                    Albert  L. Kohlmeier, head of the department of history at
                    Indiana University. A review of this monograph will appear in our next issue.
            The annual meeting of the American Historical Association is to be held in 
                        Chicago
                     this year, the dates being December 28–31. The annual Indiana History
                    Conference will meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 9–10. A large number of Hoosiers interested in the history of
                    Indiana will undoubtedly plan to attend the conference at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but, this year, there is a good opportunity for Indiana to be well represented at the 
                        Chicago
                     meeting. Those who lay plans to attend both meetings will be well rewarded.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            THREE BUSY YEARS, 1911–1914*
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            When I entered 
                        Harvard
                     University to increase the length of my tether by doing some additional graduate work,
                    I was a year beyond forty. I do not believe that one must live two score years before life can
                    begin, nor do I believe that all great ideas generate in the minds of young men. Whatever the truth
                    about this last contention, it is a poor philosophy to accept in a world where men are neither shot
                    at forty nor electrocuted at sixty. Since many of us live and work beyond sixty, it is better that
                    we continue to use our faculties throughout life than to surrender all expectations of productive
                    work and thinking at forty, or sixty either, because of an unproved theory.
            The academic year began on Wednesday, September 28, in 1911. When the day came, my wife, our small
                    daughter and myself, having been installed in a modest apartment at No. 47 Langdon Street for a few
                    days, I was ready for my year of study. I had already conferred with Dean Charles H. Haskins and Dr.
                    Frederick J. Turner, after an earlier meeting with Secretary George W. Robinson. The last named
                    gentlemen, who wore a full beard (not a 
                        Van
                     Dyke) and whose trousers showed no creases (then, as now, universal), was about the
                    mildest, kindest man that it has ever been my lot to meet. I had occasion to go to his office
                    several times while at 
                        Harvard
                    , and he was always the same. I never saw him hurried or impatient, and can well believe
                    that throughout his career as Secretary of the Graduate School, he met and handled students just as
                    he did me and that he spoke every word slowly and with a gentle inflection.
            For twenty years, I had felt an urge to spend some time at 
                        Harvard
                    , but, having become interested in the Graduate School of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , it is not likely that I should have carried out my plan had not Dr. Frederick J.
                    Turner accepted a call to 
                        Harvard
                    . He was entering on his second year in the new position when I was a member of 
                  
                     * The first installment of this autobiography appeared in
                            the issue of March, 1936, and a further chapter has been published in each succeeding
                            quarterly issue. One additional chapter bringing the sketch up to the year 1920, will appear
                            in the next number.
               
                     his seminar group during
                        1911–1912.1 This group worked on western subjects that were more
                    or less closely related to the eighteen-forties. I spent the year gathering matrial on the Whig
                    Party of the Old Northwest. At that tune, the 
                        Harvard
                     Library was very poorly housed in Gore Hall, and it was very inadequately stocked with
                    western sources. Having had the privilege of working in the Library of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society not long before, I was much disappointed in the resources of
                    the 
                        Harvard
                     Library relative to the West. I am sure that Dr. Turner felt this handicap keenly. If
                    he regretted leaving 
                        Wisconsin
                    , this may have been the main reason. He was very patient, however, and encouraged his
                    students to make the best possible use of the available material.
            I was sure, as were others, that there was something about the atmosphere at 
                        Harvard
                     that depressed the spirit of Turner. Year by year, he no doubt felt more at home in 
                        Cambridge
                    , but it is a serious question whether the combination of circumstances that led to his
                    transfer from his 
                        Wisconsin
                     environment to that of 
                        Massachusetts
                     did not do a dis-service both to the man and to the cause of history. There was no
                    outward expression of the fact, and yet I believe that this interpreter and teacher of American
                    history from the West was much encouraged by the fact that some men from the hinterland came to 
                        Cambridge
                     to sit at his feet. In his seminar group of 1911–1912,
                    there were two from 
                        Ohio
                    , one from Indiana, one from 
                        Minnesota
                    , one from 
                        Utah
                     and one from 
                        Washington
                    .2 There were but two from the East, and one of these had been a
                    teacher at Olivet College, 
                        Michigan
                    .3
            
            While at 
                        Harvard
                    , I did a year's work with Dr. William Bennett Munro in the field of Municipal
                    Government, with Dr. Edwin Francis Gay in Economic History, and with Dr. Charles Howard Mcllwain in
                    English Constitutional History. One difference that I discovered between 
                        Harvard
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     was that the work requirements were much more 
                  
                     1 During the first semester, I audited the first half of
                            Turner's course In the "History of the West." I had taken the
                            second half of, the course with him at the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
                  
                     2 The two members from 
                                Ohio
                             were William T. Morgan of Maynard, and George C. Davies of Wauseon; George M.
                            Stephenson was from 
                                Minneapolis
                            , Minn.; 
                                Franklin
                             D. Daines, from Hyde Park, 
                                Utah
                            ; Elbert A. Kincaid, from Palouse, Wash.; William O. Lynch, the writer, was from 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     3 George W. Bell of Stoneham, Mass., was one of the eastern students
                            in the group. The other man in the group was from somewhere in New 
                                England
                            , but I cannot recall his name.
               
                     rigid and extensive in the older University. Such a contrast to
                    many university professors seemed then, and would now seem, to be much in favor of 
                        Harvard
                    . To the extent that more required work leads to better results, I am in harmony with
                    the idea, but there is a grave doubt in my mind whether a graduate student is worth his salt who
                    does not work because of an inner urge and in a field where he can be happy while working. I believe
                    that every graduate student should be carefully guided and frankly advised, but I feel that each one
                    should be rated by the quality rather than by the quantity of his work.
            It was not possible for me to learn much about the undergraduate students nor about the nature of
                    their activities in or out of the classroom. I heard often about the "Gold Coast"
                    and about the private tutoring agency, or school, that was said to do quite a business on 
                        Harvard
                     Square. The professors that I knew at 
                        Harvard
                     ranked high in scholarship and in productive work, and they were surprisingly
                    open-minded in regard to current problems. The general atmosphere lacked the, pervading spirit of
                    liberalism which then prevailed at 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The student body at 
                        Cambridge
                     was preponderently conservative, it seemed, but such students as did not camp on the
                    right were apt to be pretty far to the left. This did not leave many to occupy the middle zone.
            It was at 
                        Harvard
                     that I became acquainted with Albert L. Kohlmeier and William T. Morgan, two men with
                    whom I have, for eighteen years, been closely associated at Indiana University. There were several
                    Indiana men at 
                        Harvard
                     during the year 1911–1912, some of whom it was my privilege to know well.5 In class or on the 
                        Harvard
                     Yard, among others, I learned to know Chauncey S. Boucher, Kenneth W. Colgrove, Nils A.
                    Olsen, H. Herbert Bass, and 
                        Franklin
                     D. Daines.6 I became especially interested in Elbert A. 
                  
                     4 Albert L. Kohlmeier was at 
                                Harvard
                             during the year 1911–12 and also the preceding year. He became an
                            instructor in history at Indiana University in September, 1912. Later he receivd the Ph.D.
                            degree from 
                                Harvard
                            . Since 1924, he has been head of the department of History. Dr. William T.
                            Morgan completed the work for his doctor's degree at Yale. He came to Indiana in
                            September, 1919.
                  
                     5 Three Indiana men whom I knew quite well (in addition to Boucher and
                            Kohlmeier) were: Lloyd M. Crosgrave, James G. McDonald, and Oscar H. Williams.
                  
                     6 Chauncey S. Boucher, now Chancellor of the University of 
                                Nebraska
                            , spent the year 1911-1912 at 
                                Harvard
                             and we were together in Dr. Gay's course in economic history. Kenneth
                            W. Colgrove, now a professor of government at Northwestern University where he has been for
                            several years, was with me in Dr. McIlwain's course in English constitutionel
                            history. Nils A. Olsen is now Chief of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in the
                            Department of Agriculture at 
                                Washington
                            . I had met him at the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , but we became much better acquainted through our occasional contacts at 
                                Harvard
                            . H. Herbert Bass, of the Warrensburg, 
                                Missouri
                            , Teachers College, had been a graduate student at 
                                Wisconsin
                            , but I first met him and became well acquainted with him while we were in 
                                Cambridge
                             during the same year. 
                                Franklin
                             D. Daines was from 
                                Utah
                            , a graduate of Brigham Young College, and a Mormon. Mrs. Lynch and I came to
                            know him and his wife quite well. When I first knew Daines, he seemed to be a confirmed
                            conservative, but, before the end of the year, he was an enthusiastic supporter of Colonel
                            Roosevelt. Since 1922, Daines has been professor of political science at the Agricultural
                            College of 
                                Utah
                            .
               
                     Kincaid and George M. Stephenson, both of whom were among the
                    members of Turner's seminar.
               7 We often counseled
                    together as we searched for light on western problems during the year. As the campaign of 1912
                    approached, we found a new community of interest in that each of us became deeply interested in the
                    fortunes and activities of Col. Theodore Roosevelt. The party developments of the spring of 1912, do
                    not loom so large as one views them in retrospect, but they really absorbed the attention of persons
                    of progressive tendencies at the, moment.
            While living in 
                        Cambridge
                    , I found it possible to make occasional excursions to places of historic interest with
                    Mrs. Lynch and Mary. We visited 
                  Lexington,
                            Concord, Salem,
                            Plymouth
               , and many places in 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                    . As I went back and forth between Langdon Street and the Yard, I usually passed by the 
                        Washington
                     Elm. It was somewhat disturbing to learn that Professor Channing could not feel sure
                    whether the committee, headed by Henry W. Longfellow, which had some years before made an
                    investigation and selected the tree, had decided correctly or not. We were likewise more or less
                    disquieted when, some months after we had placed our feet on 
                        Plymouth
                     Rock, we read a newspaper story written by a minister residing in 
                        Plymouth
                     who raised a question about that substantial stone. It seems from his account that
                    there were several boulders at the water's edge, on any one of which the Pilgrims could
                    have landed as they left the Mayflower. When a pier was constructed, what was then believed to be
                    the sacred rock was carted to a place in the small business section of the port. Later the rock was
                    placed where it is now, some feet higher but approximately over its old resting place.
            
               
                  7 George M. Stephenson, since 1917 at the University of 
                            Minnesota
                        , is a professor of history at that institution. He began his study of the public
                        lands as a member of Turner's seminar in the fall of 1911. His book, The
                            Political History of the Public Lands from 1840 to 1862 (
                            Boston
                        , 1917), was the outcome of the research which he then began. I regard it as a
                        misfortune that circumstances have not permitted me to keep up the close friendship with
                        Stephenson which began at 
                            Harvard
                        . Elbert A. Kincaid has been a professor of economics at the University of 
                            Virginia
                         since 1922. He and I became intimate friends while in 
                            Cambridge
                        , and we have been able to keep in touch with each other to the present. Kincaid
                        visited us in our apartment in 
                            Cambridge
                        , dined with us and learned to know Mrs. Lynch and Mary well. When he accepted a
                        position at the University of 
                            Virginia
                        , he was offered a place in the department of economics at Indiana University, for
                        which I had recommended him, at the same time. After leaving 
                            Harvard
                        , Kincaid shifted to economics, and took his degree in this field at the University
                        of 
                            California
                        .
            
            
            In 
                        Harvard
                     Hall, one of the old buildings on the Yard, constructed in 1766, and used by soldiers
                    of 
                        Washington
                    's army, I attended lectures in each of the two second story rooms. On several
                    occasions, I wrote on examinations in 
                        Massachusetts
                     Hall, which was erected in 1726. The preservation and use of these old college
                    buildings appealed to me very strongly, adding much to the enjoyment that I experienced while at 
                        Harvard
                    . The bell at the top of 
                        Harvard
                     Hall was rung to announce the beginning and end of each lecture period, the bell-ringer
                    using a suspended rope in the process in the old fashioned way. The strangest thing was that the
                    tones of the bell rang out each morning at seven o'clock. Possibly there had been classes
                    at that hour at some time in the past, but certainly few people, if any, knew the why or the
                    wherefore of the ringing of the bell at seven in 1911. The tradition was that long years before,
                    there was a rule that every student living in the dormitories on the Yard must be up each morning at
                    seven or earlier. A 
                        Boston
                     reporter, investigating the matter arrived at the conclusion that there was no reason
                    for the morning bell in the new age, unless it was to indicate that no 
                        Harvard
                     student should retire later than seven A.M.
            It was no easy matter to locate a furnished apartment in 
                        Cambridge
                     suited to the requirements of a student with a small family.8 This
                    was more especially true since the said small family desired to hold out for nine months. We were
                    fortunate enough to discover quarters that served us well. Our total cash resources were
                    $1112 from which we paid all expenses from the moment we left 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, on the afternoon of September 19, 1911, until we stepped off the train in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in the early morning of June 17, 1912, with a balance of $61 in hand.
                    Subtracting my tuition fee of $150, our traveling expenses to and from 
                        Boston
                    , $145, and the cash balance of $61, we had left $756,
                    or an average of $84 per month for all other expenses. It is almost impossible to believe
                    these humble statistics, but I am certain of their accuracy. I kept a careful cash account and have
                    the small red book on my desk as I write with all the items of expense recorded therein. It is
                    doubtful whether we have ever obtained so much for an equal outlay in any nine months since.
            
               
                  8 Our three rooms at No. 47 Langdon Street constituted an upper floor of a
                        larger apartment. We leased them from Mrs. Lee Morrison. Mr. Morrison was a regularly employed
                        chemist at the 
                            Harvard
                         Botanic Garden. We were within easy walking distance of 
                            Massachusetts
                         Avenue and the 
                            Harvard
                         Yard.
            
            
            For exercise, we took many walks in 
                        Cambridge
                    . We found Brattle Street especially attractive, and often went that way. We took trips
                    on the street-cars and then walked about in interesting areas of 
                        Boston
                     and the surrounding region. Our first motorcar (a Model T Ford) was not purchased until
                    1916, so we were accustomed to walking.9 The subway from 
                        Harvard
                     Square to the Park Street Station in 
                        Boston
                     was completed in the early spring of 1912, which made it possible to go into the city
                    very quickly where it was easy to transfer to other car lines. I had little time for pleasure
                    jaunts, but, whenever I could spare an hour or more, we made good use of the opportunity. At the end
                    of the year, we returned to Indiana by way of 
                        Washington
                    . This being our first trip to the nation's capital, it was one that we have
                    not forgotten.
            Before leaving 
                        Cambridge
                    , I had made up my mind to complete the work for a doctor's degree at the
                    University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     at the earliest moment.10 To further my purpose, I asked for a
                    leave of absence a year later, intending to continue my studies during the summer of 1913. I was
                    prevented from pursuing my plan by a promotion which I could not well refuse to accept. Thwarted in
                    two later attempts to meet the remaining formal requirements for the degree, I gave up the quest and
                    joined the ranks of that small company of university professors who somehow survive though the magic
                    letters, "Ph.D.", do not follow their names in the catalogues.
            I taught for a full quarter during the summer of 1911 and again during the following summer. There
                    was no change in my salary during the year immediately succeeding my leave of absence. Late in the
                    spring quarter of 1913, I was asked to serve as acting-head of the; department of American history
                    for the ensuing year, at the end of which time I was elected to the headship of the department.11 This 
                  
                     9 Automobiles were already thick on the streets of 
                                Cambridge
                             and 
                                Boston
                             by 1911. 
                                Massachusetts
                             Avenue, a wide and much used thoroughfare, seemed always full of speeding cars,
                            much as are city streets today.
                  
                     10 In my last conference with Dr. Turner in the 
                                Harvard
                             Library, he asked me what I intended to do in regard to the doctor's
                            degree. I told him of my purpose to go back to 
                                Wisconsin
                             where I had taken my A.M. degree. He then said to me: "If they
                            (history department of 
                                Wisconsin
                            ) write me about you, I shall recommend that you be given your examination
                            without further residence work."
                  
                     11 Before I went to 
                                Terre Haute
                            , two departments had been created in the Normal School, one in American history
                            and one in European history. After I became head of the department of American history in
                            1914. Professor Bogardus and I agreed that his department should be known as the
                            "department of European history and economics" and mine as the
                            "department of American history and government." When I left the
                            institution in 1918, the two departments were combined.
               
                     meant a twenty-five per cent increase in salary for
                    1913–1914, and another increase of about thirty dollars per month twelve months later.
                    Like Paul of old, I was able to prove that I knew how to "abound", but I trust
                    that no taxpayer will become unduly excited as my salary was just $230 per month or
                    $2760 for four quarters of service after both adjustments. While at 
                        Harvard
                    , I was asked to consider a position in the State Teachers College at Moorhead, 
                        Minnesota
                    . I offered to go for a salary of $2000 for the regular year of nine months,
                    but the president wrote me that the school could not pay so much, and I returned to my job in 
                        Terre Haute
                     at a salary of $1932 for forty-eight weeks.
            During my year as acting-head of the department of American history, I was in a more conspicuous
                    position than I had ever been before. My contacts with President Parsons and heads of other
                    departments were more frequent, my responsibilities were greater, and new duties outside of my
                    department were assigned to me. My method was "to saw wood" quietly and let
                    matters take their course. The head of the department was on leave and there was a general belief
                    that he was being eased out in the most kindly manner. One does not like to be placed in such a
                    position, but I was certain that I had been loyal to my superior, and, since it was out of the
                    question to aid him in any way, I gave very little thought to what was said or to the possible
                    outcome. Not once did President Parsons mention his plans for the future of the department to me
                    until after the whole matter was settled.
            For many years teachers' institutes were held in the counties of Indiana, and likewise in
                    many other states, each lasting for one week. Two or more lecturers were employed by each county
                    superintendent, each lecturer giving two addresses per day, as a rule. A number of counties paid
                    well and Indiana became a sort of Mecca for "instructors" from every part of the
                    country. Scores of informational or inspirational lectures were annually delivered to the teachers
                    of the public schools, but a considerable number of the educators and others who picked up some
                    money on the side during August or September by serving county institutes were little more than
                    entertainers. Spellbinders who more or less cleverly purveyed second-hand pedagogy were among those
                    employed each year to uplift the Hoosier teaching fraternity.  I
                    did not make a practice of serving county institutes, but lectured in enough to know what the system
                    was like and to become acquainted with its good and bad features.
            Early in September of 1913, I lectured for a week before the teachers of 
                        Pike
                     County, Indiana, in institute assembled.12 This was one of the
                    spots in Hoosierdom where men remained in the teaching profession, and I was very agreeably
                    surprised at their genuine interest in history and politics. This was partly due to the fact that
                    the condition of unrest which produced the Progressive party in 1912 had by no means subsided. So
                    great was the interest in political questions and the party situation that I was obliged to meet
                    with an enthusiastic group after the hour of adjournment in the afternoon for an off the record
                    discussion of politics in which everyone took part. One of the teachers in this group, who was then
                    principal of the 
                        Petersburg
                     High School, was Walter E. Treanor, later a professor of law at Indiana University and
                    member of the Supreme Court of the State, and now a federal judge in, 
                        Chicago
                    . From that week, Judge Treanor and I have been close friends.
            Brief mention has been made of my interest in the progressive movement in politics while I was at 
                        Harvard
                    . As the time of the Republican National Convention approached, the question whether
                    Theodore Roosevelt would bolt the party should the delegates fail to nominate him became one of deep
                    moment. I have very seldom bothered public persons with communications, but I wrote to the Colonel
                    commending him because he had refused to declare that he would support the nominee of the Convention
                    regardless of the platform. I also called his attention to the fact that the Republican Party owed
                    its rise and early success to men 
                  
                     12 This was, I believe, my first institute after I became connected
                            with the Normal School as a member of the faculty. I returned to 
                                Pike
                             County for a similar engagement in 1916, and again in 1924. Before the
                            abolition of county institutes, I served in each of the following counties:
                                    
                        Clay, Fountain
                     , Floyd, Harrison, Morgan, 
                                Vermillion
                            , White, Carroll, 
                                Fulton
                            , and Martin. I have known instructors who served in two or three counties
                            annually for many years, but I feel that I did enough work in that field. There is great
                            danger that one who does much work of the sort will dissipate his energies and fail to
                            accomplish things of greater moment. On the last day of my week's engagement in 
                                Pike
                             County in 1913, I received a telegram that my father was very ill. Hurrying
                            back to 
                                Terre Haute
                            , I was at his bedside in Bringhurst. Indiana, as soon as possible. He lived on
                            for about three weeks, passing away on September 24, 1913. Had he lived until the end of
                            December, he would have passed the seventy-third anniversary of his birth (Dec. 28, 1913)
                            and the fiftieth anniversary of his marriage (Dec. 3, 1913) to my mother, who outlived him
                            by fourteen years. My father belonged to that first generation of men born in north central
                            Indiana, a generation that never knew childhood and youth in an older area as did their
                            parents. The men and women of this generation, born on the raw frontier, were more truly the
                            products of pioneer conditions than were those who came in from more civilized states. I
                            have never known a man who was more anxious than my father that his children should make the
                            most of opportunities that had not been available to him.
               
                     who had the courage to leave the Whig and Democratic parties,
                    and reminded him of the part played by Whig leaders like 
                        Lincoln
                     and Seward. I do not suppose that my letter exerted a particle of influence, but when
                    the Colonel bolted and announced that he was ready to participate in the formation of a new party, I
                    was in complete accord with him.
            At the same time, I was deeply concerned about the-candidacy of Woodrow Wilson. Knowing well that a
                    Clark victory in the 
                        Baltimore
                     Convention would make for the success of the nascent Progressive Party, I could only
                    rejoice over Bryan's great fight and the victory of Wilson. The nomination of Governor
                    Wilson caused me to write again to Colonel Roosevelt. The substance of my letter was that, since the
                    Democratic Party had not committed suicide but had instead nominated a progressive, the wisest
                    policy would be to organized the Progressive Party, make a platform and then seek a coalition with
                    the Wilson Democrats. I urged that an arrangement should be made under which, should Wilson be
                    elected, there would follow a Cabinet made up of Democrats and Progressive with a like combination
                    in the case of all important committees in Senate and House. For once, I believed that there was a
                    chance for a real and effective coalition, something to that time, and still, unknown to the
                    American party system.
            In reply to this earnest plea, I received a letter which explains why Colonel Roosevelt was unwilling
                    to take up my plan. I thought then and think now that, standing at the parting of the ways, he took
                    the wrong road. He made history by his decision, but he passed up the chance to make more and
                    greater history. Here is the paragraph that constituted the body of the letter: 
                  
                     
                        I cannot personally support the ticket and Platform of the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     convention and I do not think that the Progressives should do so. I see
                                    no advantage in changing Penrose, Barnes and Gugenheim for Murphy, Taggart and
                                    Sullivan. The Democratic House has acted atrociously during the past year, and the
                                    platform put forth at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     is as vicious as any platform well could be.13
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In taking this attitude, Colonel Roosevelt was in harmony with American party traditions, which only
                    means that American parties have not been wise enough to understand party coalitions and their value
                    under certain conditions. 
                  
                     13 T. Roosevelt to W. O. Lynch, 
                                New York
                             City, July 12, 1912.
               
                     During the campaign, I defended the Progressive Party and cast
                    my vote for the Roosevelt electors. I went as a delegate to the Progressive State Convention and
                    helped to nominate Albert J. Beveridge as a candidate for governor. In 1914, I again served as a
                    delegate to the party's State Convention, when Mr. Beveridge was named as a candidate for
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senate.14
            
            
               
                  14 Ex-Senator Beveridge gladly accepted the nomination of 1912 and made
                        the race for governor with enthusiasm. Samuel M. Ralston was elected, running 109,221 ahead of
                        Beveridge. The latter, however, received 23,251 more votes than the Republican candidate,
                        Winfield T. Durbin. In 1914, Beveridge was drafted as the senatorial candidate by the
                        Progressives, and accepted very reluctantly. He knew only too well that the strength of the new
                        party was declining and that he was being asked to lead in a losing cause. He sat on the stage,
                        near the front and to the left of the chairman of the Convention. For several minutes, while the
                        delegates vigorously demanded that he accept the unanimously tendered nomination, Beveridge
                        leaned forward, his face buried in his hands, shaking his head and repeatedly saying "No." In the end, he rose to his feet, faced the silenced
                        body of delegates that filled Tomlinson Hall, and, speaking with deep feeling,
                            said—"I will." He made the sacrifice and
                        conducted a strong campaign, but wind and tide were against the Progressives. The Democrats won,
                        electing Benjamin F. Shively, with Hugh Th. Miller, the Republican candidate, running second in
                        the race for Senator.
            
         
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Max Ehrmann is a well-known poet of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. Willard H. Smith is a professor of history at 
                        Goshen
                     College, 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. Emmett A. Rice is a teacher in Shortridge High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who served as chairman of the Ralston Memorial Committee of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Teachers' Federation. Mrs. Lucille Detraz Skelcher and her daughter, Jane
                    Lucille Skelcher, are descendants of Mrs. Julia L. Dumont who live in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. Ross F. Lockridge is the Director of historical field activities for the
                    Indiana University Foundation. Loring C. Halberstadt, a former teacher of history, is Director of
                    Business and Research for the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Public Schools. Don Russell is on the staff of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News. Christopher B. Coleman is Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society
                    and Director of the Indiana State Library. George C. Osborn, a native of 
                        Mississippi
                    , is a professor of history at Berry College, Mt. Berry, 
                        Georgia
                    .
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               *Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
            Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
            
               *Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
            Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
            
               *Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
            
               *Volume IX, 1, (March, 1913).
            
               *Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
            
               *Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
            Volume XVIII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1922).
            Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one dollar and a half per number.
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
            Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
            1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
            1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
            1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
            1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
            1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
            1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
            1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
            1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
            1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted: Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; Vol. III,
                    Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any articles as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
         
            The Light Family
            LESTER D. PREWITT
            
            Jacob Light is the first of this family that can be located. In 1790, he was living in 
                        South Carolina
                    , the only person bearing the name Light. In 1818, he died in Anderson
                    Parish, 
                        South Carolina
                    . His wife died earlier. His estate roll (No. 393) in Anderson Parish, mentions his son
                    Tyce (Mathias) who was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     on June 7, 1769. He moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     after 1802. Then, in 1807, he settled in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, where he died about 1826 (estate box No. 49). He was married in 
                        South Carolina
                     to Mary Catherine Moore, who was born in that province on February 12, 1774, and died
                    in 
                        Clay
                     County, Indiana. She was the daughter of Hugh Moore. Her grave is in 
                        Franklin
                     Township, 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana.
            The children of Tyce (Mathias) and Mary Catherine (Moore) Light were: Abner, Hugh M., Isreal [sic], Robert, Isaiah, 
                        Fountain
                    , Baird, Hester, and Anna. Robert, perhaps the youngest child, was born in 1810. Isreal,
                    who came to 
                        Clay
                     County, Indiana, in 1819, married Elizabeth Russell. No definite records have been
                    found relative to 
                        Fountain
                    , Isaiah, Hester (who married a Johnson), or Anna (who married a Wright).
            Abner Light, son of Tyce (Mathias) and Mary Catherine Light, was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     on February 6, 1795, and died on November 30, 1848. He married Elizabeth Burkett, who
                    was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     on September 13, 1796. She died on July 27, 1881.
            
                    Children of Abner and Elizabeth (Burkett) Light:
                
            
               
                        Washington
                     Light—m. Sarah Maniers; three children (Rose, Anna, and Ella).
            Tyce (Mathias) Light—m. Emily Jane 
                        Franklin
                     on June 30, 1850; six children (Lou, Delia, Peggy, Jefferson, Lee, and Jane).
            Isreal Light—b. in 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, Dec. 3, 1824; m. (1) Elizabeth Vaughn, Jan. 15, 1852; two children (names not
                    known); m. (2) Nancy Gooden, Apr. 23, 1857; children (Minerva, Mahala, Laura, Clara, Elizabeth,
                    Alice, Anderson, Walter).
            Mary Light—m. John Pickard; children (no data).
            
            Pauline Light—m. John McAdoo; one son (Charles McAdoo).
            Elizabeth Light—m. Owen D. Leach; children (no data).
            John Light—m. Eliza Defoe; children (William, James M., John A., Samuel, Mary T., Millard
                    Fillmore, Isabel, Charles, Ella E., Frank).
            Lorenzo Dow Light—b. Feb. 28, 1827; d. Oct. 15, 1865; Union soldier (Corporal in Co. F.,
                    Ninety-seventh Regiment, Ind. Vol.; m. Barbara Kenayer, April 15, 1852 (Barbara—dau.
                    George and Mary Harriet Kenayer; b. June 2, 1824; d. July 27, 1894).
            
                    Children of Lorenzo Dow and Barbara (Kenayer) Light:
                
            Mary Maria Light—b. Jan. 3, 1853; d. July 18, 1935; unmarried.
            Angeline Light—b. May 13, 1854; d. May 11, 1884; m. Lafayette Scott (d. Mar. 8, 1926).
            Charles Wesley Light—b. Aug. 4, 1855; d. Oct. 1, 1856.
            Jane Elizabeth Light—b. No. 2, 1857; d. July 27, 1933; m. John W. Watts (b. 1859; d. Jan.
                    6, 1935).
            Sarah Isabel Light—b. Feb. 17, 1859; d. 1934; m. John P. Payne (b. 1856; d. 1936).
            Zachariah Light—b. July 2, 1860; m. Elizabeth Burton (b. Feb. 4, 1861; d. Nov. 2, 1932).
            Hugh M. Light, fourth son of Tyce and Mary Catherine Light, was born on December 26, 1801, in 
                        South Carolina
                    . He settled on Eel River in 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, in 1825, and transferred to 
                        Franklin
                     Township in the same county later. He was a soldier in the Union army, first, in
                    Company F, Ninety-sixth Indiana Volunteers, and later in Company B of the Thirtieth Regiment. He was
                    first married to Barbara Harriet —–, and second, to Mrs. McConnell Dyer (Oct.
                    2, 1867). He died on March 19, 1885. There was one child by the second marriage, Ida, who died
                    before her father.
            
                    Children of Hugh M. and Barbara Harriet Light:
                
            Sanders, Eliza and Huldah Light—d. before 1884 (each of the three).
            Albert Light—killed in battle at Stone River, 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            Blewford Light—m. Martha Jane Burton Jan. 27, 1853; d. at 
                        Kentland
                    , Indiana.
            Elizabeth Light—m. John Burton (b. in 1835; d. in 1920).
            
            
               
                        Fountain
                     Light—b. June 2, 1842; d. in 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana; m. Sarah A. Kay, Oct. 18, 1863.
            Baird (Bird) Light was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     on August 13, 1805, and died in 
                        Owen County
                    , Indiana, on February 6, 1867. He was buried in the Leach Cemetery east of Freedom,
                    Indiana. On January 3, 1828, he married a widow, Catherine Lucas Lake, in 
                        Clay
                     County, Indiana. The courthouse was destroyed by fire, but a record of the marriage is
                    in the Reinstatement of Marriage Book (p. 67), and is mentioned in Charles Blanchard's Counties of 
                            Clay
                         and Owen, Indiana (p. 67).
            
                    Children of Baird (Bird) and Catherine (Lucas) Light:
                
            Tyce Light—b. Nov. 30, 1837; died in 1908; m. Sally Ann Packard.
            Polly Light—m. Francis B. Martin.
            Retta Ann Light—m. John E. Ooley.
            Elizabeth Light—b. July 8, 1840, in 
                        Clay
                     County, Ind.; d. Mar. 8, 1903, in Adair Co., Ia., m. De Wilton S. Prewitt on Aug. 5,
                    1866; children: William Roscoe, Leonard Wilson, Joseph Allen, Edna, George Ashley, Albert Wesley.
                    Elizabeth Light and her husband were buried side by side in the cemetery at Fontanelle, 
                        Iowa
                    .
            THE LUCAS FAMILY
            George Lucas moved from 
                        North Carolina
                     to 
                        Clay
                     County, Indiana, by way of 
                        Kentucky
                    , in which county he entered land in 
                        Jackson
                     Township on October 5, 1832, according to the 
                        Clay
                     County Tract Book and Blanchard's Counties of 
                            Clay
                         and Owen (pp. 287–288). Both he and his wife must have died before
                    December 2, 1836, when his son Solomon Lucas and his daughter Catherine Lucas and her husband, Baird
                    Light, joined in a deed to convey the land which he had entered in 1832 as shown by 
                        Clay
                     County Deed Books, G, F, and I.
            
                    Children of George Lucas and wife:
                
            Solomon Lucas—b. Sept. 24, 1816, in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; d. on July 12, 1883, in Harrison Township, Adair Co., Ia., to which he had migrated.
            Catherine Lucas—m. Baird (Bird) Light on Jan. 3, 1828, in 
                        Clay
                     County, Ind. Catherine Lucas married first a man named Lake. A daughter, Sally Ann
                    Lake, married James  Clark. Tradition says that Catherine Lucas
                    married Lake in 
                        Kentucky
                     and that he died while migrating to a new home. The young widow made a return journey
                    to her father's home, partly on foot, carrying her baby. On the way, she obtained a ride on
                    a load of peaches with a man who was driving to a town where she had friends. These friends took her
                    back to her folks.
            George 
                        Washington
                     Lucas—m. Sarah —–
            Berry Lucas—m. Elizabeth —– of 
                        Brown
                     County, Ind.
            Thomas Lucas—m. Jemima —–
            It is probable that a daughter of George Lucas married Oliver P. Cofer. It is also possible that a
                    son died in 
                        Monroe
                     County near 
                        Bloomington
                     who had a son Thomas Lucas, a dentist.
            THE MOORE FAMILY
            Hugh Moore was born September 15, 1750, according to his pension application. He was married in 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1772 or 1773 to Sarah French. Their daughter, Mary Catherine, was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     on February 12, 1774, probably in Pendleton County. She was married to Tyce (Mathias)
                    Light. She died in 
                        Clay
                     County, Indiana. She was called "Polly" and had two brothers, John,
                    born in 1778, and William, born in 1780.
            Hugh Moore, father of Mary Catherine Moore, enlisted as a private in the Revolutionary War in the
                    fall of 1776. He was from Pendleton County, 
                        South Carolina
                    . In 1780 he was elected a lieutenant in Captain Parsons' Company, and served
                    until November, 1782. On July 23, 1832, when granted a pension, he was living in 
                        Warren
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . On September 19, 1838, his widow, while living in McCracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , was granted a pension. They had fifteen children. The youngest, Marium, was born on
                    May 15, 1805. She married Edward Stevens. Joseph, the second child, was born in May of 1776. Another
                    of the sons was John A. Moore. Hugh Moore's pension number is W8473. In the Stub Entries to
                    Indents Issued in Payment of Claims against 
                        South Carolina
                    . Growing out of the Revolution (Book X, Part II, 162) is the record of a warrant (No.
                    3637) in payment for services of Hugh Moore as lieutenant in Roebuck's Regiment. Lieutenant
                    Moore served in Captain John  Nuckols' Company in
                    February, 1771, during the Cherokee Indian uprising in Tryon County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , as indicated in the Records of 
                            North Carolina
                        
                (VIII, 517–518).
            Hugh Moore was married to Sarah French who was born in March, 1754, in Jersey City, 
                        New Jersey
                    . She died on January 2, 1854, in McCracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Her death certificate is on record in the Historical Building at
                            
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               . She was a daughter of Joseph French who married Hannah 
                        Van
                     Horne, granddaughter of William Olden. This marriage, the record of which is printed in
                    the Proceedings of the 
                            New Jersey
                         Historical Society (LIV, 198), occurred in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1749. The family moved from the Raritan River in 
                        New Jersey
                    , to 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1749, possibly to York County.
         
         
         
            The Jacob Hoover Family
            JOHN M. BURKETT
            
            Jacob Hoover, the third son of Andrew (Andreas) and Margaret Fouts (Pfautz) Hoover (Huber) was born
                    in 1754 and died in 1821. He married Elizabeth —– in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    . The second son, Andrew Hoover (1752–1834), married Elizabeth Waymire in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, and the record of their ten children has been given in the Waymire
                    pamphlet, published by Dr. William M. Reser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, in 1925. There have been many prominent persons among the descendants of this
                    family, including the prominent antislavery leader, George W. Julian.
            
                    Children of Jacob and Elizabeth Hoover:
                
            Jacob Hoover—b. 1777; d. 1856–59; m. (1) Catherine Yount (b. 1781; d. 1814); m.
                    (2) in 1833, Mrs. Sophia (Plummer) Waymire (b. 1783; d. 1859); lived much of the time in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana.
            Daniel Hoover—b. June 13, 1780; d. Aug. 24, 1814; m. (1) Rachel Waymire (b. April 9, 1779;
                    d. January 14, 1806); m. (2) Jan. 8, 1807, Mary Sinks (b. April 20, 1777; d. 1830); dau. of George
                    Sinks); lived on the Stillwater, near the National Road, 
                        Montgomery
                     County, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            John Hoover—b. Dec. 24, 1783; d. Aug. 5, 1849; m. Elizabeth Jeffries; lived in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana.
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. —–; d. 1838; m. Austin Davenport (b.
                    —–; d. 1837); lived in 
                        Boone
                     County, Indiana.
            David Hoover—b. Sept. 19, 1787; d. December 3, 1835; m. Rebecca Bonine; lived in 
                        Boone
                     County, Indiana.
            Joseph Hoover—b. Dec. 27, 1788; d. Sep. 29, 1851; m. Elizabeth Young (b. 1789); eleven
                    children; owned mill of his grandfather's in 
                        North Carolina
                     now known as Skeen's Mill.
            Samuel Clark Hoover—b. Mar. 1, 1796; d. Jan. 8, 1876; m. Mrs. Sarah (Jeffries) Eller;
                    clerk of court, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
            Mary Hoover—b. 1785; m. Wood Arnold; lived in 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            Nancy Hoover—b. —–; d. May, 1826; lived in 
                        Marion
                     County, Indiana; m. Chesley Ray (b. 1798; d. 1869).
            
            Andrew Hoover—b.—–; d. 1839; m. Nancy—–; lived
                    near Zionsville, Indiana.
            
               Children of Jacob and Catherine (Yount) Hoover:1
            
            Jacob Hoover—lived in 
                        Iowa
                    .
            William Hoover—b. 1803, d. —–; lived in 
                  Nevada, iau
               ;
                    unmarried.
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. February 7, 1805; d. February 16, 1864; m. Enos Baldwin
                    (1807–1860); buried in Courter Cemetery, 
                        Miami County
                    , Indiana; six children.
            Nancy Hoover—m. Jesse Morris.
            John Hoover—b. November 18, 1808; d. 1872; m. Rachel Maudlin (1811–1894); lived
                    in 
                        Cass County
                    , Indiana; nine children.
            Daniel Hoover—lived in 
                        Iowa
                     (?).
            Mary Hoover—b. 1812; m. Asa Baldwin (1812–1896); lived in Aroma, 
                        Hamilton
                     County, Indiana; several children, including Eli, who lived at Anderson, Indiana.
            Susan Hoover—b. May 1, 1813; m. Enos Bond (b. July 22, 1810; d. February 27, 1893); lived
                    in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana; nine children.
            Eli Hoover—b. June 1, 1815; d. January 13, 1880; United Brethren preacher; m. (1) Sarah
                    Beaver; four children; m. (2) Elizabeth Turnipseed; five children; lived in Bennetts, 
                        Miami County
                    , Indiana. Many of this family moved to Halstead, 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Hannah Hoover—b. August 26, 1820; m. William Cook; seven children.
            Catherine—b. October 12, 1821; d. April 10, 1876; m. Daniel Waymire (b. January 8, 1825;
                    d. January 18, 1898); lived in 
                        Montgomery
                     County, 
                        Ohio
                    ; five children.
            
               Children of Daniel and Rachel (Waymire) Hoover:
            Jacob Hoover—b. February 11, 1798; d. April 11, 1861; buried in Mount Hope Cemetery, 
                        Athens
                    , Indiana; m. Sarah Curtner (?), b. 1802, d.—–; lived in Carroll
                    and 
                        Fulton
                     Counties, Indiana; 2 children.
            Frederick Hoover—b. January 22, 1800; d. August 23, 1858; m. Sophia Curtner (b. 1800; d.
                    January 22, 1875); buried in Argos Cemetery, Indiana; 7 children.
            
               
                  1 This list of children and all the lists that follow to the
                        "Children of Jacob and Sarah (Curtner) Hoover" are the grandchildren of Jacob
                        and Elizabeth Hoover, and the great-grandchildren of Andrew and Margaret (Fouts) Hoover.
            
            
            Daniel Hoover—b. September 2, 1801, d. April 25, 1863; m. Sarah Coble (b. September 11,
                    1801; d. January 4, 1862); minister, Christian Church, in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana; two children.
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. February 11, 1804; d. March 8, 1820; m. Jesse Hutchins
                    (1797–1863); lived in 
                        Wabash
                     County, Indiana; nine children.
            Mary Hoover—b. January 24, 1810; d. early; m. John Cox (1800–1855); lived in 
                        Cass County
                    , Indiana; three children, including Andrew J. Cox and Mrs. Ezra (Matilda) Jones.
            Sarah Hoover—b. August 9, 1811; d. January 10, 1871; m. Philip Woodhouse; lived in 
                        Cass County
                    , Indiana; six children; descendants live near Twelve Mile, 
                        Cass County
                    , Indiana.
            Susannah Hoover—b. April 24, 1814; d. July 20, 1851; m. Isaac Newman; lived at
                            
                  Denver, Miami
                        County
               , Indiana; six children.
            
                    Children of John and Elizabeth (Jeffries) Hoover:
                
            Alexander Hoover—b. November 5, 1805; d. October 5, 1851; m. Malinda Gwinn
                    (1815–1902); five children.
            Henry Hoover—b. January 17, 1807; d. November 9, 1873; m. Sarah Curtis, daughter of James
                    and Elizabeth (Byrket) Curtis; buried in Mount Hope Cemetery, 
                        Fulton
                     County, Indiana; nine children.
            Mary Hoover—b. January 21, 1809; d. December 11, 1891; m. Lewis Prill
                    (1804–1876); buried 
                        Athens
                    , Indiana; six children.
            John Hoover—b. March 22, 1811; d. 1850 (?); m. Mary Arnold; lived in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana; five children.
            Elizabeth Hoover—b. June 26, 1816; d. January 20, 1884; m. Edward Friback; lived in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana; one infant child.
            Jacob Hoover—b. 1818; d. 1882; m. (1) Maria Ann Earl; six children; m. (2) Martha M. Weir;
                    two children; lived in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana.
            Samuel Hoover—b. March 10, 1823; d. August 11, 1871; m. Sarah Koffel; lived in 
                        Iowa
                    ; five daughters and one son.
            Levi Hoover—b. July 31, 1825; m. Lydia Nicewander; lived in 
                        Nebraska
                    ; three children.
            David Hoover—b. December 22, 1827; m. Adanath Bell; 
                    lived in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana; five children.
            Lemuel Hoover—b. September 3, 1830; m. Katherine Parvis; lived in 
                        California
                    .
            
               Children of Elizabeth (Hoover) and Austin Davenport:
            Eliza Davenport—m. George Love; lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Henry H. Davenport—b. 1821; m. Mary Laton; shoemaker, 
                        Boone
                     County, Indiana; six children, two of whom served in Civil War; grandchildren live in
                            
                  Decatur, Illinois
               .
            Mary Davenport—b. 1824; m. Andrew Hopkins; lived at Zionsville, Indiana; four sons, two of
                    whom served in Civil War.
            
               
                        Milton
                     S. Davenport—b. March 2, 1830; m. (1) Mary I. Gates; m. (2) Mrs. Julia Ann
                    Debruiler; m. (3) Mrs. Mary J. (McCenziel) Law; Zionsville, Indiana; many children.
            William Davenport—b. 1833; m. Mary Ann Ballinger; carpenter, 
                        Boone
                     County, Indiana.
            
                    Children of David and Rebecca (Bonine) Hoover:
                
            Jacob Hoover—b. May 27, 1808; m. Sarah Lowe; lived at Ottumwa, Coffey County, 
                        Kansas
                    ; eight children, of whom two sons, Martin B. and John J., served in the Civil War.
            Isaac Hoover—b. August 1, 1810; d. 1866; m. Susan Lane; lived in Coffey County, 
                        Kansas
                    ; seven children, one residing in Indiana; Mrs. Rosalie Maines, living on College
                    Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is a descendant.
            Mary Hoover—b. May 27, 1812; d. 1903; m. Elijah Cross; lived at Zionsville, Indiana; ten
                    children.
            
               Children of Joseph and Elizabeth (Young) Hoover:
            Henry Hoover—d. 1868, in 
                        Hamilton
                     County, 
                        Texas
                    ; m. Mary Peery; six children.
            Ephraim Hoover—b. 1813; m. Julianna ——; lived in Polk County, 
                        Iowa
                    ; nine children.
            Joseph Hoover—b. October 10, 1816; d. December 22, 1837; m. Mary Nance; lived in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    ; eleven children.
            Jacob Hoover—(no data)
            Andrew Hoover—(no data)
            Dolly Hoover—m. Joseph Pool; lived in 
                        Randolph
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    ; thirteen children.
            Polly Hoover—b. 1816; m. Larkin (?) Arnold; lived in 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            Eliza Hoover—b. 1815; m. William Rush; four children.
            
            Sallie Hoover—m. William Prevo.
            Tenie Hoover—m. Daniel Davis.
            Margaret Hoover—m. Andrew Johnson.
            
                    Children of Samuel Clark and Sarah (Jeffries-Eller) Hoover:
                
            Alexander F. Hoover—b. 1826; d. 1872; m. Mary Ellen Carpenter; three children, including
                    Samuel Carpenter Hoover, Winthrop Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Samuel Atwood Hoover—b. 1834; d. 1916; m. Jessie Sluss; two children, one of whom is Fred
                    P. Hoover, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    Children of Nancy (Hoover) and Chesley Ray:
                
            Nettie Ray—b. October 6, 1818; m. Franklin Imbler (1818–1880); buried in Eagle
                    Village Cemetery, 
                        Boone
                     County, Indiana; three children.
            John Ray—b. May 2, 1822; d. May 22, 1902; m. Jane Jennings; lived at Zionsville, Indiana;
                    three children, including Chesley Ray, (b. September 29, 1845; d. October 27, 1915; m. Eliza 
                        Franklin
                    ; Civil War service; lived at Trader's Point, Indiana).
            William Ray—b. 1824; d. 1900; m. Nancy—–; lived in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            
               Children of Andrew and Nancy Hoover:
            William Wesley Hoover—b. 1826; d. 1907; m. Cassia Sloan, (b. 1833); grocer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; four children, including the late Elgin J., grocer on Schurman Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Jacob Niles Hoover—b. 1831; m. Martha —–; lived at
                            
                  Russellville, Putnam
                County, Indiana; three children.
            
                    Children of Jacob2 and Sarah (Curtner) Hoover:
                
            Eli Hoover—born Sept. 20, 1820; d. Jan. 1, 1862; buried in Mount Hipe Cemetery; m. Mary
                    Jane Lowe (b. June 1, 1826; d. Sept. 1, 1852) four children; m. (2) Sarah Moore (b. 1839).
            Sarah Hoover—b. 1835; m. Richard McIntyre; no children.
            
               Son of Elizabeth (Hoover)3 and Jesse Hutchens:
            Daniel Hutchens—b. Feb. 22, 1820; d. Jan. 27, 1896; m. Jemima Jones; nine children.
            
               
                  2 This Jacob Hoover who married Sarah Curtner is a son of Daniel and
                        Rachel (Waymire) Hoover, and the grandson of Jacob and Elizabeth Hoover.
               
                  3 This Elizabeth Hoover who married Jesse Hutchens is a daughter of Daniel
                        and Rachel Waymire Hoover, and a granddaughter of Jacob and Elizabeth Hoover.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 64: GRAY FAMILY
            
            Joshua Gray, a pioneer in Indiana, and an extensive land owner, built and subdivided "The
                    Gray Enlargement," and erected a handsome home at that time, in Newburg, Indiana. William
                    Gray, of Grayville, 
                        Illinois
                    , came from 
                        Kentucky
                     to that place and became a very wealthy man. He had three sons—Allen Gray,
                    Lieutenant James Gray, and W. W. Gray, who are now living in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. William Gray was a cousin of my father, William Fauntleroy, but I do not know
                    the connections. Sarah Fauntleroy, born about 1760, a daughter of Colonel William Fountleroy and his
                    wife Apphia Bushrod, married Lieut. James Gray and moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    . If some reader can give the connections of these families, I shall be very
                    grateful.—Miss M. E. Fauntleroy, 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana.
            Query 65: WILLIAM GRAY FAMILY
            
            William Gray married Catherine —– and lived three miles west of
                            
                  Crawfordsville, Montgomery
                County, Indiana. Catherine was born in Essex County, 
                        New Jersey
                     on March 4, 1793. She came west to 
                        Butler
                     County, 
                        Ohio
                    , with her parents in 1806. She married William Gray in 1828 and they migrated to 
                        Montgomery
                     County, Indiana, in that year. There Catherine died in 1877. Her daughter, Mary Gray,
                    married Jacob McIntire, and it was at their home that the mother died. I wish to know the names of
                    Catherine's parents and grandparents, etc.—Miss Margaret Elizabeth Tinsley, 129
                    Carpenter Road, 
                  Mansfield, Ohio
               .
            Query 66: KITCHELL FAMILY
            
            Moses Kitchell, an early settler in 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Ohio
               , was born in 1740, at 
                        Hanover
                     Neck, 
                        New Jersey
                    . He was the son of Joseph (1710–1779) and Rachel (Bates) Kitchell. He
                    married Phoebe, daughter of Elias Hedges. Children of Joseph and Phoebe Kitchell were: Lydia,
                    Rachel, Percy, Luther. Moses emigrated (1786) to 
                        Kentucky
                     with his family, thence to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . There are descendants in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , as well as in 
                        Ohio
                    . As a descendant, I would like to correspond with descendants in Indiana. A history of
                    this family in the Middle West is being compiled.—Ernest P. Grissell, 564 Harrison
                    Street, Gary, Indiana.
            
            Query 67: BOYD-BROWN FAMILY
            
            John Pabasco Pabori Boyd was born on June 1, 1834. His father, David Boyd, married a Miss Pabasco, of
                    Spanish and Indian ancestry. John P. P. Boyd married Mary Georgianna 
                        Brown
                    , who was born on June 15, 1849. They moved to 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana. Their children were: Mattie Belle (b. June 10, 1868; m.
                    —– Ackner); Willie Hanley (born February 24, 1870, at Odell, 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana); Emma (born 1871–1872, at Parsons, 
                        Kansas
                    ; died young); John Conel (born May 13, 1874, in 
                        Kansas
                    ). John P. P. Boyd died on September 10, 1894, at 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. He had Civil War service in Company G, Fortieth Indiana Infantry, and was
                    discharged on January 6, 1863. Wanted: the ancestry of the Boyd and 
                        Brown
                     families.—Mrs. Lilly Boyd Williams, 2433 West 43rd Street,
                            
                  Denver, cou
               .
            Query 68: BUTLER FAMILY
            
            Alma 
                        Butler
                     was born on August 20, 1843, in 
                  Winchester, Randolph
                County,
                    Indiana. Her father was Samuel 
                        Butler
                     (b. Dec. 18, 1806), and her mother, Hannah Barker (b. Feb. 25, 1816, in 
                        Randolph
                     County, Indiana). Wanted: parentage and ancestry of Samuel 
                        Butler
                    . Any information will be appreciated.—E. U.
            Query 69: ROSS FAMILY
            
            William Ross was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     on May 17, 1758, and died in 
                        Monroe
                     County, Indiana on April 21, 1855. He entered land in Perry Township of that county in
                    1827. His wife, Elizabeth Barnes, was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     on October 21, 1791, and died in 
                        Monroe
                     County, Indiana, on February 13, 1852. Wanted: the Revolutionary service of William
                    Ross. His granddaughter remembers this statement: "Your grandpa took care of the
                    General's horse," but we have no definite proof.—L.B.E.
            Query 70: BUCK FAMILY
            
            Andrew Buck was born in Towamensing Township, 
                        Northampton
                     County (now in Carbon County), 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on July 28, 1773. He died in 
                        Clinton
                     County, Indiana, on Oct. 16, 1844. He married Mary Eva Box who was born in Bucks
                    County, Pa., on Feb. 20, 1775, and died in 
                    
                        Clinton
                     County, Indiana, on July 15, 1854. The children were: Salome, David, Nicholas, and
                    Lydia. Tradition says that the father of this Andrew Buck was also named Andrew Buck, and that he
                    served in the Revolutionary War. I desire proof of this traditional information relative to Andrew
                    Buck, Sr.—B.T.L.
            Answer to Query 36 (Sept., 1937, p. 368, C.H.S.): The inscriptions from the Gray Cemetery, near 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, may help the writer of this query. I searched for this cemetery for several
                    months. It was found on the John R. Gray farm about seven miles northeast of 
                        Bloomington
                    . There are fourteen graves, four of them of the Paul family. The following records are
                    all on one stone: Edmond Paul—February 5, 1798—February 9, 1892; Rachel, wife
                    of E. Paul—December 26, 1808—September 26, 1884; Maria J., daughter of E. and
                    R. Paul—died June 3, 1843—aged 2y 7m 29d; David, son of E. and R.
                    Paul—died March 25, 1845—aged 10y, 3m, 23d.—Mrs. Charles R. Emery, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 52 (Mar. 1938, p. 135, M.E.M.): The Glover family, as far as we know, was of pure
                    English stock. Uriah Glover, Sr., was born on Long Island in 1740. Uriah Glover, Jr., was born at
                    Elizabeth, 
                        New Jersey
                    , on October 21, 1773. Gaddis Glover, son of Uriah Glover, Jr., was born in 
                        Shelby
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on October 8, 1805. He came to Indiana with his father in the spring of 1814, when he
                    was not quite nine years old. In March 1827, he married Eliza Elgin, daughter of Jesse Elgin, who
                    lived in Claysville, 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana. They had eleven children—five boys and six girls. Uriah
                    Glover, Jr., married Priscilla Gaddis, on February 14, 1797, at Uniontown, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . She was born on May 13, 1779, and died on Lost River, 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana, in 1836. Her husband died in 1856. Priscilla was the daughter of
                    Colonel Thomas Gaddis, who served under General 
                        Washington
                     and held a commission signed by him.—Mrs. O. O. Williams, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 54 (Mar. 1938, p. 136, M.H.): From many sources the following information of James
                    Blythe was gathered. Born, Rowan County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , on October 28, 1765; graduate of Hampden-
                        Sidney
                     College, 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1789; licensed by the Presbytery of 
                        Orange
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1791; removed to 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1791; one of the  pioneer Presbyterian preachers
                    there; acting president of Transylvania University, 1804–1816, and later in the Medical
                    Department, until 1831; called to 
                        Hanover
                     College, Indiana, to serve as the first president, from 1832 to 1836. The 
                  
                            Hanover
                         College Journal (April, 1894) I, 5, states that he had married Margaret
                    McElroy on August 1, 1793, and adds that there had been twelve children. The children at home when
                    Pres. Blythe came to 
                        Hanover
                     were: James E., Margaret, Eliza, Anna, and Sarah. The parentage of James Blythe is not
                    given, nor is his Revolutionary service mentioned. The Roster of Soldiers from 
                            North Carolina
                         in the Revolutionary War, published in 1932 by the D.A.R., gives service for
                    two Joseph Blythes and two Samuel Blythes. The Census of 1790 (
                        North Carolina
                    ) lists James, Richard and Samuel Blythe in the 
                        Salisbury
                     District, Mecklenburg County.—M.T.M., Editor.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Monroe
                     County Marriages, 1818–1822
            Copied by MRS. CHARLES R. EMERY
            
            
               M. G.-Minister of the Gospel
               A. J.-Associate
                        Judge
               J. P.-Justice of the Peace
               E.-Elder
            Benjamin Chandler to Nancy Arthur, 6/2/1818, George Anderson, M.G.
            James Bails to Elizabeth 
                        Mitchell
                    , 8/5/1818, William 
                        Jackson
                    , J.P.
            John Goodwin to Hannah Bails, 6/14/1818, George Anderson, M.G.
            Moses Hix to Elizabeth Green, 9/22/1818, Jonathan Nichols, J.P.
            Jonathan Adamson to Sarah Teague, 1818, William Matlock, J.P.
            Jacob Young to Martha Storm, 12/4/1818, James Wright, J.P.
            Daniel Hall to Hannah Treat, 2/23/18, George Anderson, M.G.
            John Philips to Nancy King, 2/10/1819, James Wright, J.P.
            Obediah Goodwin to Sarah Holly, 12/23/1819, James Wright, J.P.
            Ebenezer Dicky to Mary Esslinger, 4/1/1819, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Jacob Fullen to Sarah Wampler, 4/1/1819, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            John M. Jenkins to Aranna M. Freland, 4/11/1819, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Jesse Summers to Mary Hanson, 4/21/1819, John Barnes, J.P.
            Daniel Zink to Jane Shields, 5/27/1819, Jonathan Nichols, J.P.
            Philip Hodge to Mary Goss, 5/9/1819, Hugh Barnes, J.P.
            William Teague to Elizabeth Bales, 6/25/1819, Jonathan Nichols, J.P.
            John Arthur to Elizabeth James, 6/30/1819, James Wright, J.P.
            Robert Duke to Nancy Goodwin, 5/20/1819, Jonathan Nichols, J.P.
            James James to Hannah Arthur, 6/3/1819, James Wright, J.P.
            William James to Sarah Frazer, 6/12/1819, James Wright, J.P.
            John Berry to Gracy Treat, 7/13/1819, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Pemberton Dickens to Drucilla Turpent, 5/5/1819, William Matlock.
            Samuel Corbin to Betsy Moron, 1819, Joseph Berry.
            David Nuckels to Esther Chance, 8/18/1819, James Chambers.
            John Dyer to Sarah Coonse, 6/29/1819, John Barnes.
            James Brummet to Esther Brummet, 9/16/1819, George Anderson.
            Joseph Freeland to Mary Garrett, 11/28/1819, James Wright.
            William Pruett, to Hannah Parks, 10/14/1819, William Edmondson, J.P.
            William 
                        Jackson
                     to Britty M. Wilson, 1/2/1820, William Matlock, A.J.
            Zachariah Williams to Sarah Payne, 1/7/1820, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Benjamin Freeland to Mary Ann Clark, 2/13/1820, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Evan Dollarhide to Hannah Lowe, 2/22/1820, John Allison, M.G.
            John Henson to Rebecca Sheffield, 2/-/1820, William Chambers, J.P.
            Ephriam Duke to Martha Swaney, 6/11/1820, Jonathan Nichols, J.P.
            Noah Allison to Polly J. Boswell, 6/23/1820, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Solomon Wooden to Eleanor Hill, 6/30/1820, John Barnes, J.P.
            William Wyman to Lucinda Whitson, 4/21/1820, John Barnes, J.P.
            Conrad Kern to Polly Berry, 7/20/1820, Abraham Kern.
            
            William Rawlins to Polly Sharp, 7/20/1820, William Edmondson, J.P.
            Samuel Barlow to Susanna Lee, 8/6/1820, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Baswell Hill to Charity Wright, 9/18/1820, Nathan Buchanan.
            
               
                        Campbell
                     Berry to Selena Burton, 9/22/1820, Daniel Anderson.
            David Snowden to Malinda Moore, 9/24/1820, Richard Wright, J.P.
            James Bennington to Sarah Hartsock, 12/21/1820, William Edmondson, J.P.
            John Durham to Ann Lamb, 8/6/1820, Hugh Barnes, J.P.
            Hiram Alexander to Patsy Brazier, 11/12/1820, John Hutson, J.P.
            John Garner to Jane Joy, 4/-/1820, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Jesse James to Rebecca Givins, 5/4/1320, John Barnes, J.P.
            Meredith Parks to Malinda Sharp, 12/21/1820, William Edmondson.
            John Owens to Nancy Thornburg, 12/21/1820, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Joseph 
                        Campbell
                     to Mary Graham, 1/8/1821, John Barnes, J.P.
            Jesse James to Rebecca Gibson, 1/10/1821, John Barnes, J.P.
            Joseph Philips to Elizabeth King, 2/2/1821, William Fletcher, M.G.
            Jacob Laky to Phoebe Bails, 2/1/1821, William Fletcher, M.G.
            William Smith to Polly Sare, 2/2/1821, William Fletcher, M.G.
            William Hinso n to Rebecca Sheffield, 2/-/1821, William Chambers, J.P.
            Philip Simpson to Margaret Tincher, 1/28/1821, William Hardin,J.P.
            Jesse Gilum to Celia Snowden, 2/25/1821, William Chambers, J.P.
            Wynn Tones to Margaret Storm, 5/25/1821, Leroy Mayfield, M.G.
            Matthew Noel to Mary Pruett, 3/9/1821, Elijah Chambers, M.G.
            Bailey M. Kutchen to Anna Bicler, 6/25/1821, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            John Helms to Rachel Barnes, 6/12/1821, John Mercer, M.G.
            John Wood to Margaret Blair, 6/3/1821, William Edmondson, J.P.
            Thomas Lee to Patsy Cutter, 7/27/1821, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            John Wilson to Susanna White, 9/27/1821, Elzy Woodward, J.P.
            Chesley D. Bailey to Polly Orrick, 7/14/1821, John 
                        Henderson
                    .
            Richard Hardesty to Mary Armstrong, 8/23/1821, David Z. Chamberlain, M.G.
            Elias Gibson to Elizabeth Garrett, 6/14/1821, Nathan Buchanan, M.G.
            John Rolla to Elizabeth Dukes, 5/3/1821, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Dudley C. Smith to Mariah Humphreys, 7/-/1821, David Z. Chamberlain, M.G.
            Samuel Moore to Mary Sears, 12/-/1821, Samuel Dodds, J.P.
            Wesley Whitson to Jane 
                        Mitchell
                    , 1/1/1822, Samuel Dodds, J.P.
            William Armstrong to Catherine Armstrong, 1/31/1822, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Samuel Cowens to Priscilla Chandler, 1/14/1822, Joseph Baugh, J.P.
            Thomas Alsop to Susanna Newcomb, 3/7/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Jacob Leonard to Elizabeth Armstrong, 3/22/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            William Arnold to Rachel Coffman, 4/11/1822, Lewis Noel, A.J.
            David Cosey to Sally Collins, 4/12/1822, Joseph Baugh, J.P.
            
            George H. Johnson to Susanna Boswell, 4/16/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Valentine Wampler to Angelina Rawlins, 4/22/1822, William Edmondson, J.P.
            Joseph Whaily to Sophia Hall, 4/23/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            Samuel Howe to Elizabeth Allison, 3/-/1822, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            James Garner to Rachel Coffman, 1/24/1822, Daniel Anderson, M.G.
            Caleb Sowder to Martha Blair, 4/25/1822, Elzy Woodward, J.P.
            John Bowland to Catherine Owens, 4/30/1822, Joseph Baugh, J.P.
            Zecheriah B. Chambers to Izabel Blair, 4/8/1822, Shadrach 
                        Brown
                    .
            John Garrison to Eliza Alsop, 5/1/1822, George Anderson, M.G.
            Stephen Havens to Esther Coly, 5/2/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            John Brooks to Mary Goodwin, 5/11/1822, Nathan Buchanan, J.P.
            John Adamson to Sarah Andrews, 5/22/1822, Elzy Woodward, J.P.
            Silas Inyart to Mary Sears, 5/22/1822, Nathan Buchanan, J.P.
            John V. Buskirk to Catherine Lebo, 5/26/1822, William Hardin, J.P.
            Nathan Cox to Dorcas King, 6/7/1822, John H. Lucas, J.P.
            Bryant Teague to Susannah Bails, 6/21/1822, William Matlock, J.P.
            Orian Cracker to Olly Berry, 6/18/1822, Joseph Berry, E., C. Church.
            John C. Archer to Elizabeth Zink, 7/20/1822, Stephen Grimes, M.G.
            James Rawlins to Cynthia Stout, 7/-/1822, William Edmondson, J.P.
            Joel Sexton to Aligail Davis, 9/-/1822, Elzy Woodward, J.P.
            Robert Duffield to Patience Chesnut, 10/-/1822, William Fletcher, M.G.
            James Curl to Anna Elliott, 10/22/1822, William Fletcher, M.G.
            Eli P. Farmer to Matilda Allison, 10/-/1822, John Cord, M.G.
         
         
         
            Early Wills of 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana (Abstracts and Notes)
            
               By MRS. N. B. MAVITY
            
            
               Baker, James.
               1 Will executed June 1, 1816—probated
                    June 20, 1816—wife, Polly. Children: John, James, Jinny—executors: Hugh Holmes
                    of 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana and Larkin Davis of Jessamine County, 
                        Kentucky
                    —witnesses: Richard L. Kirby, John Scott and Nancy Kirby.
            
               Holliday, Robert.
               2 Will—February 13,
                    1816—probated November 20, 1816—wife, Hannah—children: Abigail,
                    Mary, Jacob, Henry, Robert, Deborah, Hannah, Rebecca, John—executors: sons Henry and
                    Robert.
            
               Gawdy (Goudy), William. Will—September 2, 1816—probate not
                    given—to Catherine 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               , $15.00—rest of estate to
                    Sarah Gawdy of Chambersburg, a minor, in care of Samuel Cooper of Chambersburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —witnesses: Eleanor Chambers, John McVey, Thomas Lindley, gentleman Thomas 
                        Fulton
                    , executor.
            
               Wells, William.3 Will—October 16,
                    1814—probated, April 16, 1817—wife, Esther—children: Joseph,
                    Nathan, John, Esther, Sarah, Charity, Stephen, Susannah Ray, Elizabeth Cameron, William.
            
               Burgar, Michael. Will—January 24, 1818—probated (date not
                    given—wife, Elizabeth—children: John, James, Elizabeth, Mary, Hannah,
                    Daniel—executors: wife Elizabeth and son John—witnesses: Evan Jones, Thomas
                    Atkinson.
            
               Johnson, David. Will—June 21, 1817—probated February 18,
                    1818—wife, Peggy—children: Joseph, Jesse, Sarah, David, Lydia, Ephriam Wesley,
                    Ruthey, Eli Burket, Matilda, Thomas—executor (not given)—witnesses: James
                    Gregory, Joseph Anderson, Beverly Gregory.
            
               Morris, Benjamin. Will—October 28, 1818—probated November 23,
                        
                  
                     1 The son John, mentioned in the will of James Baker, was born in
                            Woodford County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , near 
                                Versailles
                            , October 12, 1812. His parents brought him to Indiana in 1815. He became a
                            prominent lawyer and lived in 
                                Bedford
                            , Indiana, many years; moved to 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1859, and later to 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana. His father, James Baker, was born in 
                                Orange
                             County, 
                                Virginia
                            , in 1785, moved to 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1805 and came to 
                                Orange
                             County, Indiana, in 1815, as stated above, where he died in 1816. John Baker
                            married Sarah Delard, daughter of John Delard, who was born in Mercer County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , in 1798. His father, Ettienne Delard, of 
                                South Carolina
                            , born in 1767, was a Revolutionary soldier and of Huguenot descent as stated in
                            Goodspeed's History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and Davies Counties, Indiana (1886, pp. 192, 310). Polly Baker, wife
                            of James, is said to have been a Davis, sister of Larkin Davis, who entered land in the
                            north part of Paoli Township, and is buried there. They were children of Thomas Davis, a
                            Revolutionary soldier. Mrs. Alleyna 
                                Brown
                             McNabb, of the John Wallace Chapter, D.A.R., of 
                                Bedford
                            , Indiana, is a member on the record of Thomas Davis. James Baker, Jr., the
                            second son, mentioned in the will, was born in Woodford County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , March 29, 1814; married Sarah Burgess in 1834 according to the account in
                            Goodspeed's History of Lawrence, 
                                    Orange
                                 and 
                                    Washington
                                 Counties, Indiana (1884, p. 662). Jane (Jinny) Baker, born in 1816,
                            married Dr. James Dillard.
                  
                     2 Hinshaw's Encyclopedia of American 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy (1936, I, p. 436) gives the record of the Holliday family,
                            with dates, including the name and dates of another son, William. Robert Holliday was the
                            son of Henry and Mary Holliday (p. 399 of last reference in note 1). Robert and Hannah
                            Holliday were born in 
                                Chester
                             County, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Hannah was the daughter of John and Mary Newlin Holliday.
                  
                     3 Miss Mabel Claxton, of French Lick, Indiana, has the Revolutionary
                            record of Nathan Wells. He is said to be buried at Lick Creek 
                                Quaker
                             Cemetery, in 
                                Orange
                             County, but the grave is not marked. Miss Claxton has, also, the Revolutionary
                            record of Joseph Wells, from 
                                North Carolina
                            .
               
                     1818—wife, Jane—children: William, Nancy
                    and infants—executor and witnesses (not given).
            
               Brouen (Braven), David. Will—July 4, 1818—probated January
                    26, 1819—wife, Abigail—children: David, James, Mary, Wilson, Janie,
                    Betsy—executor and witnesses (not given).
            
               Burtner, John. Will—April 20, 1820—probated September 6,
                    1820—wife, Elizabeth and her mother, Juliann Burtner—these to be
                    executors—witnesses: John Haynes, Joshua Carter, Martin Outsinger.
            
               Riley, Edward. Will—August 9, 1819—probated April 14,
                    1820—wife, Elizabeth and son, Edward—other legatees, Mary Hogg, Elener Wilson,
                    Abraham Riley, John Riley, James Riley, Thomas Riley, William Riley, Isaac Riley, Jacob Riley,
                    Elizabeth Roads, Sally Hart—witnesses: Isaac and James Riley—executors (not
                    given).
            
               Raymond, David. Will—August 20, 1818, at 
                  Huntsville, alu
               —probated April 16, 1820. (This is a lengthy will, evidently by
                    a man of some wealth. Wife, deceased. Father-in-law living, name given, Timothy Leonard. Brother,
                    Daniel Raymond, mentioned. In accordance with wishes of his deceased wife $100 to be
                    presented to her friend, Mary W. G. Howe of Bennington, 
                        Vermont
                    . Books to be presented to the following, as was the wish of deceased wife: to his
                    brother, Daniel and James; to her brothers, Frederick and Edward; to Thomas Perkins, to Emily
                    Hodges, to Hester Lancing, to Sarah Hull. Testator's sister Sarah and his wife's
                    sister Mary to be models, in education of his daughter. Sister Abigail and her children mentioned).
            
               Freeman, Daniel. Will—October 6, 1822—probated October 22,
                    1822 —wife, Jane—sons, Joshua, Daniel—daughters, Rebecca McVey,
                    Fanny Bradford—witnesses—Joshua Hadley and Aaron Maris—executor
                    (not given).
            
               Jones, Evan. Will—September 29, 1821—probated October 22,
                    1822—wife, Sarah—children: John, David, Samuel, Mary, Sarah, Evan, Lucinda,
                    Isaac B., William—executor and witnesses (not given).
            
               Doak, Joseph W.
               4 Will—July 5,
                    1820—probated October 29, 1822—wife, Polly—children (referred to
                    but not named)—executor and witnesses (not given).
            
               Copelin, Ann. Will—August 10, 1821—probated November 30,
                    1822—Ann, widow of Jacob, bequeaths to son Thomas, etc.—witnesses: J. Moser,
                    James Clements.
            
               Lockhart, William. Will—November 15, 1822—probated December
                    10, 1822—wife, Hannah—daughter, Peggy—and heir of Rachel
                    Underwood—executor and witnesses (not given).
            
               Hollowell, Jesse. Will—December 6, 1820—probated, December
                    17, 1822—wife, Elizabeth—children: James, John, Mary, Sally, Jesse
                    Woodard—executors: John Hollowell and his son Henry (brother and nephew of deceased).
            
               Briner, Peter. Will—January 23, 1823—probated April 21,
                    1823— 
                  
                     4 Joseph W. Doak was the great grandfather of N. B. Navity, of French
                            Lick, Indiana. His wife was Mary (Polly) Irvin, daughter of Samuel Irvin, Revolutionary
                            soldier. Robert Doak was a son. A daughter, Jane Doak, married Samuel Lynd, and another
                            daughter, Martha, married Isaac Potter. There is a Doak family history, but we do not have
                            this volume.
               
                     wife, Catherine—children: Elizabeth Robbins,
                    Catherine Walker, Mary Cook, John, Andrew, George, Peter.
            
               Hoemler (Hemler), John. Will—March 10, 1823 (?)—probated,
                    April 21, 1823—wife, Catherine—children (referred to but not
                    named)—"Land in 
                        Illinois
                    , a tract appropriated for Military bounties"—latter's
                    tools mentioned—executors: Ephriam Doan and his wife—witnesses: Joseph Athon,
                    William Rhodes, Ebenezer Doan. (Hoemler must have been a soldier, since he had the land mentioned.
                    Ephriam Doan was a hatter, who lived at Paoli).
            
               Clark, Robert. Will—July 1, 1823—probated, August 23,
                    1823—wife, Alley Clark—One dollar to be paid to the following: Presley
                    Allgood, Jesse Hutchins, Benjamin Melone, Elizabeth Allgood, Lydia Hutchins
                    —grandchildren mentioned (Presley Allgood's children and the children of Jesse
                    Hutchins)—witnesses: James Curry, Thomas Copelin.
            
               Rayburn, Cornelius (known as Neely Rayburn). Will—September 26,
                    1823—probated, October 11, 1823—wife, Bethilda—children: Andrew,
                    James, Sarah—witnesses: Lewis Byram, Henry B. Prentiss.
            
               Wells, Joseph. Will—September 11, 1823—probated October 20,
                    1823—children: Isaac, Zachariah, Charity Freeman, Nathan, Levi, Peter, Jonathan,
                    Jesse—executors: Ephriam Doan and Joseph Farlow.
            
               Dixon, John. Will—September 9, 1823—probated January 30,
                    1824—wife, Ruth—children: Elizabeth Marshall, Rebecca Towell, Simon Dixon,
                    Rachel Hobson, Ruth Doan, Amy Hiatt, John, Solomon, Zacharias, Thomas 
                        Elwood
                    , Levina Dixon.
            
               Warden, William. Will—May 4, 1824—probated June 19,
                    1824—wife, Katherine—children (referred to)—mention of lands in 
                        Kentucky
                    —witnesses: Joel Vandeveer, Mary Crutchfield.
            
               Allen, Peleg R. Will—April 16, 1825—probated May 25,
                    1825—wife, Ann B. Allen—("My dear sister Hannah Spooner". In
                    case of my wife's death before my own, I appoint as executors, my friends, Dr. Burr
                    Bradley, of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, and Dr. William Scribner of Paoli, Frederick B. Leonard, student of medicine
                    of Lansingburg, N.Y., John B. Chipman, merchant, of Lansingburg, N.Y., and Dr. Elisah Sheldon and
                    Gershom Clark, druggist of 
                        Troy
                    , N.Y., and Philander Chase, Bishop of the diocese of 
                        Ohio
                    , to have full and complete power to make disposal of my property. To the 3 sons of my
                    deceased brother John Allen, and the 5 sons of my sister Hannah Spooner, the title to my lands on
                    White River, in the Pride Settlement. To all that may fall to me by will from my wife, from the
                    estate of Timothy Leonard, deceased, to the American Tract Society, the 
                        Ohio
                     Protestant Episcopal Society, for Missionary purposes, the Theological Seminary of the
                    Protestant Episcopal Church, in the diocese of 
                        Ohio
                    , the Missionary Society of Indiana, to be expended in this state, to be divided
                    equally, each alike. Frederick B. Leonard mentioned as a brother-in-law. (Dr. Allen was one of
                    Paoli's early physicians. See will of David Raymond, in this list, whose wife was a sister
                    of Dr. Allen's wife).
            
               Smith, Jacob. Will—August 13, 1824—probated June 10,
                    1825—wife, Susannah—son, Ambrose—daughters: Polly, Eliza, Dilla,
                    Lucy, Frances (the daughters were under 18 years)—witnesses: John Chenoweth, Aaron
                    Vandeveer.
            
            
               Nichols, Nathan. Will—December 16, 1823—probated July 7,
                    1825—wife, Nancy—children: Simeon, George, Silas, Nathan, Thomas, John,
                    Jennie, Sally, Nancy, William J., Cyrus E., Hugh H., Martin M.—executors: wife (Nancy)
                    and Thomas Copeland.
            
               Davis, Mary. Will—September 2, 1823—probated August 5,
                    1825—to grandchildren: Jonathan, Joseph, Mary, Martha Woodard, Margaret Bouge
                    (?)—to his daughter, Elizabeth Hollowell—witnesses: Alexander Morris, 
                        Washington
                     Morris, James Hollowell.
            
               Darroch, Daniel. Will—November 29, 1825—probated December 22,
                    1825—wife, Nancy—brother, Duncan—witnesses: John Maris, Abraham
                    Holliday.
            
               Wilson, Joseph. Will—February 4, 1824—probated April 13,
                    1826—wife, Mary—sons: Joseph, Andrew, Nathaniel—daughters: Margaret
                    Fields and Rachel Fields. (Joseph Wilson was a Revolutionary soldier. On June 5, 1938, a Government
                    marker was dedicated by the D.A.R. Chapter in Orangeville Township, 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana).
            
               Thomas, Lewis. Will—February 4, 1824—probated April 13, 1826
                    —beloved wife (name not given)—children: Ruth, Tilden, Lewis, Joseph,
                    Stephen—one dollar each to be given to Charles Bouchman, John Bouchman, Burrell Graham,
                    Eli Morris, James Atkinson, William Trueblood, Daniel Lambdin—executors: his son Tilden
                    and his beloved friend Shadrach Ditto.
            
               Carr, Michael. Will—December 23, 1826—probated February 19,
                    1872—daughter, Betsy Carr, to be executor—bequests to Michael Lindsay, Thomas
                    G. Carr, Polly Lindsay, James Carr, Samuel 
                        Campbell
                    , Margaret 
                        Mitchell
                    , heirs of William Carr: Amanda, Polly, Emily. (Miss Josephine Lindsay of 
                        Mitchell
                    , Indiana, has records of this family).
            (To be continued)
         
         
         
            Some Additions to the Genealogy Collection in the Indiana State Library*
            
            FAMILY HISTORIES
            
            
               Allen history and genealogy. Allen. 1937.
               Andrews-Andrus family. Also Lavinia Townsend. Aadrus. 1936–38.
               Baird and Beard families. Catchings. 1918.
               Buchanan-Copeland-Ribble families. Duckworth. n.d.
               Bulkleley genealogy. Jacobus. 1933.
               Bullard and allied families. 
                            Newton
                         and Bullard. 1930.
               Chipman family; additional notes. Logsdon. 1938.
               Debruler and Hargrave families. Debruler. 1938.
               Felton family. Felton. 1935.
               Holdeman descendants. Holdeman. 1937.
               Hooker. Descendants of the Rev. Thomas Hooker. M. H. Hooker. 1909.
               Journees and Nisbets. McLaughlin. 1933.
               Kinfolks. Vol. 3 and general index. Harllee. 1937.
               Lane. Samuel Lane's journal. 1937.
               Lingenfelter genealogy. (chart) Browning. n.d.
               McIntosh family history. McIntosh. 1937.
               Marsh family of southern Indiana. Marsh. n.d.
               Miller-Cummings family. Miller. 193—.
               Peffley-Peffly-Pefley families. Frost. 1938.
               Reese. Samuel Reese family. Walter. 1938.
               Scherer-Sherer family. Clark. 1937.
               Tracy genealogy. Tracy. 1936.
               Webster and Fisher families. Webster Parry and H. T. Lukens. 1936.
               Zinn family. McCloskey. 1937.
            
            LOCAL HISTORIES
            
            
                    
                        Connecticut
                    
                
            
               Derby, History of. Orcutt. 1880.
               Hinman's First 
                            Puritan
                         settlers of 
                            Connecticut
                        . Second edition, enlarged. 1852–1856
               Litchfield, Sketches and chronicles of. Kilbourne. 1859
               Litchfield county, Biographical history of. Kilbourne. 1851
               
                  
                            New Haven
                         genealogical magazine. Families of ancient 
                     
                        * A previous list appeared in the Indiana
                                    Magazine of History (September, 1937), XXXIII,
                                379–380.—Anna Poucher, Librarian Genealogy Section, Indiana State
                                Library.
                  
                        
                        
                            New Haven
                        . Jacobus. 8 vols.
               New 
                            London
                         county, History of. Hurd. 1882
               Sharon, History of. Sedgwick. 1898.
            
            
                    
                        Delaware
                    
                
            
               Biographical and genealogical history of 
                            Delaware
                        . 2 vols. 1899
            
            
                    
                        Georgia
                    
                
            
               Chatham county, Abstracts of wills, 1773–1817. LaFar and Wilson. 1936
               Coweta county, Chronicles of. Jones and Reynolds. 1928
            
            
                    
                        Illinois
                    
                
            
               
                  
                            Putnam
                         and Marshall counties, History of. Ford. 1860.
            
            Indiana
            D.A.R. Records
            
               Johnson county, Alexander 
                            Hamilton
                         chapter, 
                            Franklin
                        . First order book. 1938
               
                  
                            Elkhart
                         county, William Tuffs chapter, 
                            Elkhart
                        . 
               Revolutionary soldiers buried in 
                            Elkhart
                         county and old graves in Baintertown cemetery. 1938
               
                  
                            Fountain
                         county, Richard Henry Lee chapter, 
                            Covington
                        .
               Records of burials in 
                     Troy, Wabash
                   and 
                            Fulton
                         townships prior to 1875. 1938
               
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         county, Schuyler Colfax chapter, 
                            South Bend
                        .
               
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         county cemeteries. 1938
               Vigo county, Fort Harrison chapter, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . Lineages of members. 193—.
               
                  
                            Wayne
                         county, National Old Trails chapter, 
                            Cambridge
                         City.
               Marriages and deaths from Mrs. George Kelsey's scrapbook.
            
            Indiana Historical Society—Committee on pioneer churches and cemeteries:
            
               Hendricks county—Abner's Creek North 
                            Salem
                        
                   Gossett Trotter Union Township
               
                  
                            Monroe
                         county— Clear Creek township
                Union county—Harmony township
               
                  
                            Jasper
                         county. Deceased veterans of Revolutionary, Mexican, Civil, Spanish, and World wars
                        buried  in 
                            Jasper
                         county. Compiled by Mrs. C. W. Hanley. 1938
               
                        
                     
                                Ripley
                             county records. Additional biographies and obituaries. Compiled by Violet E.
                            Toph et al. 1938
                    
               Rolling Prairie, History and records of the M. E. Church, 1835-1933. Garman. 1933
            
            
                    
                        Maine
                    
                
            
               
                  
                            Maine
                         historical and genealogical recorder. 9 vols. Complete.
            
            
                    
                        Maryland
                    
                
            
               Cecil county, History of. Johnston. 1881
               History of western 
                            Maryland
                        . 2 vols. Scharf. 1882
               
                  
                            Maryland
                         colonial wills, Abstracts of, 1777 back to 1639. 4 vols. Magruder. 1935
               
                  
                            Maryland
                         colonial wills, 1634-1777, Index to. 3 vols. Magruder. 1933.
               
                        Talbott county, History of. 2 vols. Tilghman. 1915.
                    
            
            
                    
                        Massachusetts
                    
                
            
               Hingham, History of. 4 vols. 1893.
               Families of. 4 vols. Cutter. 1910.
               
                  
                            Hanover
                        , Vital records, 1727-1857. 1898.
               Littleton, Vital records to 1850. 1900.
            
            
                    
                        Missouri
                    
                
            
               Platte county, Annals of. Paxton. 1897.
            
            
                    
                        New Hampshire
                    
                
            
               Amherst, History of. Secomb. 1883.
               
                  
                            New Hampshire
                         state papers. Vols. 34 and 35, Wills and probate papers. 1933, 1936.
               
                  
                            Charlestown
                        , History of. Saunderson. 1876.
            
            
                    
                        New Jersey
                    
                
            
               
                  
                            Burlington
                         county, N. J., marriages. Craig. n.d.
               Monmouth county, History of. Ellis. 1885.
            
            
                    
                        New York
                    
                
            
               Early eighteenth century Palatine emigration. Knittle. 1937.
               Long Island genealogies. Bunker. 1895.
               
                  
                            Madison
                         county, History of. 
                            Hammond
                        . 1872.
            
            
                    
                        North Carolina
                    
                
            
               Abstracts of wills. Grimes. 1910.
               Wills and inventories. Grimes. 1912.
               
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Quakers, Scrapbook of. Compiled by Mrs, Martha Coleman Johnson, from Mrs. Kate
                        Milner  Rabb's Hoosier Listening Post in 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star.
               Old Tryon and 
                            Rutherford
                         counties, History of. Griffin. 1937.
            
            
                    
                        Ohio
                    
                
            
               Centennial and biographical history of 
                            Columbus
                         and 
                            Franklin
                         county. Lewis pub. co. 1901.
               
                  
                            Delaware
                         county, History of. 1880.
               Military history of 
                            Ohio
                        . Hardesty pub. co. 1887.
            
            
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                
            
               
                        Allegheny county, History of. 1876.
                    
               Allegheny county, Memoirs of. 2 vols. 1904.
               
                  
                            Chester
                         and 
                            Delaware
                         counties, Genealogical and personal memoirs of. 2 vols. Cope and Ashmead. 1904.
               
                  
                            German
                         settlements in colonial North America, especially 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Germans: a bibliography. Meynen. 1937.
               
                  
                            Germantown
                        , Penn. Guide book. 1904.
               Monongahela, Old and new. 
                            Van
                         Voorhis. 1893.
               
                  
                            Philadelphia
                        , Watson's annals of. 3 vols. 1905 edition.
               York county, History of. Gibson. 1886.
            
            
                    
                        Rhode Island
                    
                
            
               Narragansett historical register. 9 vols. Complete.
               One hundred and sixty allied families. Austin. 1893.
            
            
                    
                        Virginia
                    
                
            
               Kegley's 
                            Virginia
                         frontier. Kegley, 1938.
               Roster of the 
                            Virginia
                         Daughters of the American revolution. 
                            Virginia
                         D. A. R. 1938.
               Seventeenth century Isle of Wight county, 
                            Virginia
                        . Boddie. 1938.
               Twelve 
                            Virginia
                         counties, where the western migration began. Gwaltney. 1937.
            
            
                    
                        Vermont
                    
                
            
               
                  
                            Vermont
                        , Roster of soldiers of the War of 1812–14. Prepared by Adjutant-General
                        of 
                            Vermont
                        . 1933.
            
            MISCELLANEOUS
            
            
               Banks' Topographical dictionary of 2885 emigrants to New 
                            England
                        , 1620–1650. Brownell. 1938.
               Burke's Peerage, baronetage, knightage. 1938.
               Colonial dames of America, Register of 
                            Connecticut
                         society. 1922.
               
               Colonial dames of America, Register of 
                            Georgia
                         society. 1937.
               Passenger lists of ships coming to North America, 1607–1825: a bibliography.
                        Lancour. 1937.
               War of 1812, Proceedings of the general society. 1928–1936.
            
         
         
            
               Attention: All contributions for Indiana Genealogy should be typed to avoid
                    mistakes in names and dates. They must be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should
                    be brief and definite. Answers for publication will be appreciated. In connection with any anwser,
                    the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given.
                    Traditions must be verified. Bible and other records are requested for publication. Mail copy for
                    Indiana Genealogy to Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
         
      
   
