
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 3, Issue 1, pages 1-50. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:3+issue:1+year:1907&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                PIONEER LIFE.
                
                    BY BENJAMIN S. PARKER.
                
                EARLY MANNERS and CUSTOMS.
                
                    The Ruffian Element; Early Fighting and Rude Amusements–Cooperative Tasks and Social
                        Accompaniments; House-raising, Logrolling, etc.; Pastimes; Pioneer Feasts; Dances and Play-Parties of the
                        Young People–Notes by the Editor.
                
                
                    [This article and others of a similar character to follow are from the manuscript material for a history of 
                            Henry county
                        , written by Mr. Benjamin S. Parker, of 
                            New Castle
                        . The literature that exists on the early life, manners and customs of the State, while full
                        in certain particulars, is almost silent in others, and Mr. Parker's circumstantial treatment of the
                        subject adds much desirable information.–Editor.]
                
                IN the early settlements of 
                        Henry county
                    , as elsewhere in the middle west, there was a somewhat numerous representation of the rough
                    border element which hung upon the outer rim of civilization to trap and hunt and, if occasion offered, fight
                    the Indians, and to make the first rude openings in the forests. They drank, caroused, fought among
                    themselves, and made things lively for their more decorous neighbors. Many of these, when not inflamed by
                    drink, were generous, warm-hearted people, as ready to befriend a neighbor as to fight him if offense were
                    given.
                Upon this matter of offenses they cherished a number of peculiar notions. They would not take pay from the
                    sojourning stranger for food and lodging, and regarded as an insult the proffering of the same. To refuse a
                    drink of whisky when tendered gave umbrage. Any reflection upon the courage, physical strength, prowess or
                    truthfulness of these men demanded an apology or a fight; and when the bottle was circulating freely among
                    them the causes for offense multiplied in a sort of geometrical ratio. This class was unlettered, careless of
                    apparel, uncouth  of speech, and, when intoxicated, abusive, profane and
                    obscene. They came largely from the mountain regions of 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    
                    
                        Virginia
                    , though their number was recruited from regions other than those mentioned.
                In their hostile relations with each other they recognized an unwritten code of honor which generally governed
                    their fights, and which was somewhat as follows: All fights must be "fit fa'rly," no man to use any kind of
                    weapon nor take "unfa'r holts," and the fight must cease when one of the combatants cried "'nuff." After the
                    contest the parties were expected to shake hands, drink together and be friends. The man who disregarded the
                    "'nuff" of his beaten foe and sought to inflict further punishment, and he who transgressed the code by using
                    a knife or other weapon was disgraced in the eyes of his fellows. As the "code" permitted striking, gouging,
                    biting, hair-pulling, scratching, kicking and even stamping upon a fallen victim, it allowed sufficient
                    latitude for all reasonable belligerants. The militia musters, elections, public sales, shooting-matches, and
                    Saturday afternoons in the towns or at the cross-roads "grocery" or "coffee-house," as the drinking places
                    were called, were the principal scenes of these passages at arms. On such occasions many a fellow who was
                    ambitious of pugilistic renown was sent home to his family in a sadly undone condition to be nursed back to a
                    semblance of his former self by his sympathetic wife. With the bellicose disposition as a basis, there was no
                    lack of entrances into a quarrel and the wished-for fight. Differences of opinion were not even necessary.
                    Neat clothing, correct speech and a gentlemanly bearing were often a sufficient provocation to the bully who
                    had a distaste for these effeminacies, and lacking these he could, without departing too widely from
                    recognized custom, "renown it" by drawing a circle about himself with a stick and defying anyone to enter the
                    space thus appropriated; or sometimes, after loading up with whisky, he essayed to terrorize a town, profanely
                    swearing he could "whup" the best man or all the men in it, till some one accommodated him. The writer was
                    once told of a debt that, by the agreement of both parties, was settled by the approved fisticuffs of the day.
                    One dunned another for a dollar, and the debt was disclaimed. It was proposed to fight it out, the defeated
                    fighter to lose or  pay the money besides standing treat. The outcome was
                    that the discomfited creditor had to forfeit his dollar and pay additional money for whisky, besides
                    proffering the friendly hand with as much grace as he could command.
                These "disturbers of the peace and dignity of the State" were, theoretically at least, amenable to the law, and
                    their fines went to the county seminary fund. The late Judge D. D. Banta tells of one bully who. used to boast
                    that he upheld one corner of the 
                        Johnson county
                     seminary, at 
                        Franklin
                    .
                These frontier fighters, as a rule, would sell out their lands and move elsewhere as the country about them
                    became more thickly settled and their freedom was restricted. Not infrequently, however, enough remained to
                    prove under other conditions that their aggressive qualities were a source of strength and capable
                    citizenship.
                The Saturday afternoon gatherings at the villages and crossroads stores, above alluded to, were a popular
                    feature with the early settlers of the male division and of a certain class, who there sought diversion from
                    the toils at home. The social enjoyment of these occasions was augmented by shooting-matches,
                    "goose-pullings," horse-racing and similar trials of skill, speed or endurance. Into most of these practices
                    the gambling spirit entered. An incentive to the shooting-match was the possibility of winning various
                    articles which were put up at so much a chance. These prizes were various, but usually consisted of venison,
                    beef, corn-meal or other provisions. The mark to be shot at was, ordinarily, a board or the smooth surface of
                    a tree boll marked with a bull's eye surrounded by two or three circles. The marksman who averaged nearest
                    center in a given number of shots was the winner (1). These contests borrowed zest from the expertness of the
                    average frontiersman with the rifle, and his pride in that accomplishment. With some, indeed, this expertness
                    continued to a later day, if an anecdote that I have heard is to be credited. A 
                        Henry county
                     volunteer in an eastern Indiana regiment during the Civil War applied for place in a squad of
                    sharp-shooters that was being organized in the camp. He claimed some experience with the old-fashioned
                    squirrel rifle. "Where did you have the experience, what did you shoot at, 
                    and about what was your average success?" he was asked. "Well," was the careless response, "I hunted turkeys
                    on Blue river in 
                        Henry county
                    , Indiana. I can't tell how it averaged, but my wife always used to be about two weeks behind with
                    her pickin'."
                Perhaps the rudest of the early sports was "goose-pulling." A goose or gander with its neck well greased or
                    soaped was nailed through its webbed feet or otherwise fastened to the top of a post or the stump of a small
                    tree at the proper height for a horseman to reach as he raced by on the full run. Dexterity to grasp the head
                    of the fowl in passing and grip to tear it from the live and struggling body were the requirements of the
                    prizewinner (2).
                The pioneer horse-races, upon which some money and the skins of raccoons and other fur-bearing "varmints"
                    changed hands, and out of which many quarrels arose to be settled according to the backwoods code, were little
                    more than reckless gallops along the stumpy roads or about the partially cleared fields, there being much more
                    prospect of broken limbs than of speed. There were few speed horses in 
                        Henry county
                     prior to 1850.
                A majority of the settlers, however, were not to be classed with this ruder and more boisterous element just
                    described. Practical and industrious, they made even their recreations fit in with the accomplishment of their
                    tasks, and house-raisings, log-rollings, wood-choppings, sawings, corn-huskings, hog-killings, wool-pickings,
                    quiltings, apple-parings, rag-cuttings, carpet-tackings and even chicken-pickings were often converted into
                    festive occasions by sociable cooperation. While all such gatherings for work entailed much hard, even
                    excessive work, there was generally an abundance of fun and active enjoyment connected with them, even if a
                    strict religious sentiment tabooed the frolics or play-games of the young people or the fiddle and dance after
                    the work. The log-rollings and sawings gave rise to many races, the company being divided into two gangs or
                    sections. In the case of the rollings the ground was apportioned so as to give each gang the same amount of
                    work, and each side chose an experienced man to direct its movements. The contest, when begun, never flagged
                    until the last log was placed  upon the heap, the section finishing first
                    being the winners. In handling the logs there was great individual emulation and many tests of strength,
                    particularly between the ambitious young men; which test consisted in putting a handspike under the end of a
                    heavy log with a man at either end and proving which could pull the other down. At these and similar
                    gatherings, after the day's work it was customary to indulge in various athletic sports, such as foot-races,
                    wrestling-matches, "leapfrog," "tug-of-war," "crack-the-whip," "lap-jacket" and jumping, with or without the
                    use of the pole. Pitching quoits and horseshoes were also favorite pastimes. The quoit was usually a boulder
                    or flat stone of from twenty to sixty or more pounds in weight, which was thrown from the shoulder, the
                    "pitcher" or "thrower" toeing a mark. The pitching of horseshoes is still so common as to be familiar to
                    all.
                A common diversion with the men and boys at corn-huskings was to sit close together in a circle on the ground
                    or floor, with their knees drawn up so as to form a space or continuous tunnel beneath. A small roll of some
                    kind was then started and passed invisibly from hand to hand through the space beneath the knees, this
                    performance being accompanied with the cry of "Brogue it about! Brogue it about!" and other confusing noises
                    and talk. One person within the circle sought to locate and capture the flying roll in the hands of some one
                    who should exchange places with him. It was a lively game, full of fun and go, and often when the confused and
                    eager man in the ring pounced upon some one, thinking he had the roll, another from the rear would deal him a
                    sounding blow with it, then send it "brogueing" on. The writer never heard any name for the game other than
                    "brogue it about!" which probably was equivalent to "move it about!" It evidently was but a more vigorous form
                    of "seek the thimble," a children's game much in vogue, in which a thimble, passing from hand to hand, was
                    hidden from the seeker.
                A notable feature of the neighborhood gatherings was the bounteous feasting that accompanied the toil. The
                    customary daily meals and, sometimes, lunches between, regaled the never-failing appetities engendered by long
                    hours of hard labor in the open air. With abundant game, fish, wild fruit and the products  of the gardens and fields to draw upon, and with plenty of skilled and willing
                    feminine hands to prepare the same, there was no lack of cheer. Venison, roast turkey, fried chicken, hominy,
                    ham and eggs, potatoes, roast pig, wild honey, steaming cornbread or sweet pone, with hot biscuit for dainty
                    folk, old-fashioned gingerbread with crab-apple preserves, jellies, tarts and pies, and plenty of good milk
                    and butter, make a partial list of the good things at the command of the pioneer housewife when she wished to
                    make a spread, and the neighbor guests commanded the best to be had.
                The incidental social life above described did not, however, fulfill the requirements of the young unmarried
                    folks among the pioneers. With them the social features, although they might be prefaced by a day's or
                    half-day's work, were the prime incentive. There must always be some excuse of necessary toil to justify the
                    gathering, but the husking, the wood-chopping or the quilting-bee was followed in the evening not only by a
                    supper but by a frolic of some kind. In the new villages the dance and the masquerade were most in vogue,
                    although the games and play-parties were also popular there as they were in the country. At first the dances
                    were quadrilles and jigs, but in a few years the round dances-–waltzes, schottishes, polkas, mazurkas,
                    etc.-–were introduced. Ben Custer, of blessed memory, was teaching them to the boys and girls of 
                        Henry county
                     fifty or sixty years ago. But the prevalence of the drink habit and the ill repute that whisky
                    and disturbances gave to these dances caused the ministers and churches to make war upon them, and to a large
                    extent they became exiled from the better country neighborhoods.
                In the country the forfeit plays and the marching plays accompanied by songs were the chief amusements.
                    "Keeping post-office," "building the bridge," "picking cherries," and numerous others were "forfeit" games. Of
                    the marching plays may be mentioned "We're marching down to old Quebec," "I suppose you've heard of late of
                    George Washington the Great," "Come Philander, let's be a-marching," "Sailing on the boat when the tide runs
                    high," "King William was King James's son," "We are marching in to the Ivory O!" "Charley Cole," "Old Dusty
                    Miller," "Jersies Blue, to you I call," and "Oh! Sister  Phoebe, how merry
                    were we the night we sat under the juniper tree," not to mention at least fifty more that were high in favor
                    with backwoods beau and rustic belle. They were sung as the players marched, often with little regard to tune
                    or time, but with an interest and energy that seldom flagged. They usually wound up with kissing songs, such
                    as: 
                        "Down on this carpet you must kneel, And kiss your true love in the field; Kiss her now and kiss her
                            then And kiss her when you meet again."
                     Or, two persons of opposite sex would join hands around a young man, and, holding their arms up so
                    that his partner must pass under them, sing: 
                        "Come under, come under, My honey, my love, My heart's above, My heart's gone a weeping below Galilee,"
                            etc.,
                     Finishing with an assurance that the gentle swain who awaits her coming will "neither hang her nor
                    drown her," but gently kiss her sweet lips, or words to that effect. The number and variety of these
                    kissing-songs were as great as of the marching songs, which seemed, many of them, to come down through
                    centuries of frolic and fun, and yet ever bearing an undertone of sorrow and affliction that wars and parting
                    bring to the young. Though the miscellaneous touchings of the lips that these old marching plays required were
                    considerable, they were far outrivaled in this respect by the forfeit plays in which the forfeits were all
                    kisses. Besides the afore-mentioned plays, there were such lively exercises as "drop the handkerchief," "the
                    hindmost of three," and "hiding the thimble." There were a good many guessing games, among them "grunt," in
                    which one of the players, blindfolded, guessed at the identity of the others from a grunt uttered by them,
                    usually in a disguised voice.
                The charade came in later, perhaps, and still lingers, along with "Old Dusty Miller" as survivals of the plays
                    and games of early times. There were also many letter- and word-games, as, "Ship's come to town!" the response
                    being, "What's it loaded with?" to be answered with the name of an article beginning  with the letter then being used, as, apes, apricots, anarchists, etc., this being
                    continued till the vocabulary of the players was taxed to the utmost. Others were "bobbing the apple," "pussy
                    wants a corner," and "going to market." In the latter game each person in a circle was given the name of some
                    part of the wagon or harness, such as wheel, tongue, hames, etc. A story by one was reeled off about "going to
                    market," in which the impromptu reconteur alluded as he saw fit to wheel, tongue, hames, or
                    the other parts, and the players bearing those names were, whenever they were mentioned, to rise up on the
                    instant, turn around and sit down again. If, caught unaware, one failed to do this, he had to pay a forfeit.
                    "Sociability," "weev'ly wheat," and "four hands 'round" were compromise dances that were indulged in when
                    dancing, so-called, was forbidden.
                One amusement brought into 
                        Henry county
                     from the South a good many years before the Civil War was the dancing picnic or Fete
                        Champetre, to which the people came with their basket dinners for the purpose of a day's social
                    converse and enjoyment heightened by their favorite exercise. Sometimes the dance was held in a new barn or
                    upon a green lawn, but the usual way was to clear off a circular piece of ground in some beautiful grove,
                    cover it over with clean, new sawdust, and arrange the seats about it with a platform at one side for the
                    musicians. Those who danced "paid the fiddler," but all who chose to come were made welcome. This form of
                    amusement was very popular in southern 
                        Henry
                    , 
                        Rush
                    , 
                        Fayette
                     and southwestern 
                        Wayne
                     counties.
                EDITORIAL NOTES. 1. The best description known to us of the old-time
                    shooting-match is in Baynard R. Hall's "New Purchase" (ed. 1855, pp. 105-112). The prize on the occasion
                    described was a barrel of whisky; the distances stepped off and marked, eighty-five yards off-hand and one
                    hundred yards with rest. The rests were various, some of the marksmen driving forked stakes in the ground and
                    placing on these a horizontal piece, some using a common chair, some lying flat with a chunk Or Stone before
                    them for a support and yet others standing beside a tree with the barrel near its muzzle pressed against the
                         boll. For targets each man had a shingle carefully prepared with,
                    first, a charcoal-blackened space, and on this for a ground a piece of white paper about an inch square. From
                    the center of the paper was cut a small diamond-shaped hole, which, of course, showed black, and two diagonal
                    lines from the corners of this intersected each other at the center of the diamond, thus fixing the exact
                    center of the target. About this point, with a radius of four inches, a circle was drawn, and any shots
                    striking outside of this circle lost the match to the marksman. Each contestant had three shots, and if all
                    struck within the circle and outside of exact center the measurement was taken from the center to the inner
                    edges of the different bullet holes. The distances added together made the shooters "string," and the shortest
                    string won the prize. This was called "line" shooting. On rare occasions accidents happened at these
                    shooting-matches. Hall tells of two. It was the custom for the score-keeper to conceal himself behind the tree
                    on which the target was fixed. On one occasion a rifle hung fire, and the scores-man peeped inquiringly from
                    the tree just in time to catch the belated bullet. Another time the tree, unbeknown to the shooters, was
                    hollow, and the bullet passing through the shell pierced the man on the other side. Another story of Hall's
                    tells how a boastful young marksman was chagrinned by an old hunter who on a wager "bewitched" his rifle by
                    passing his hand along the barrel and over the muzzle with an incantation, so that the shooter missed the
                    whole tree. The art of witching consisted in deftly depositing in the mouth of the gun a small bullet, which
                    sent its own bullet awry.
                2. Gander-pulling as practiced in the 
                        Tennessee
                     mountains is graphically described by George Egbert Craddock in one of her novels. We find little
                    mention of it as a custom in Indiana, and do not believe that it was very common here.
                3. Of the games mentioned by Mr. Parker, "forfeits," "grunt," "ship's come to town," "going to market," "drop
                    the handkerchief," "pussy wants a corner," and "weev'ly wheat" are well known at the present day, the three
                    last-named, especially, being common among children's amusements. The old marching games are dying out and are
                    now to be found only in the more remote country districts. A collection of the plays, giving  steps, songs and music, and a study of their origin, before it is too late, is a
                    thing much to be desired. In the boyhood days of the editor they still survived in Franklin township, 
                        Marion county
                    , and he remembers some that may be added to Mr. Parker's list. Our recollection is that all or
                    nearly all of them had in them the elements of the dance–-rhythm of step and music–-and that they were usually
                    adopted where the religious sentiment of the neighborhood frowned upon dancing. The added feature of
                    miscellaneous kissing was so invariably a part of the games that these parties were familiarly and vulgarly
                    known as "gum-sucks." Many of the songs in air and measure were so similar that one readily glided into
                    another. The accompanying steps and figures were, not infrequently, similar to the quadrille, or else a
                    marching step with simple evolutions. The words had a primitive folk-lore quality, sense and relevance being
                    quite secondary to rhythm, as a few specimens we remember will illustrate. One of these was: 
                        "Just from 
                                Shiloh
                            , skiptumaloo, Just from 
                                Shiloh
                            , skiptumaloo, Just from 
                                Shiloh
                            , skiptumaloo, Skiptumaloo, my darling!"
                     Another, with a slight altering of the tune, ran: 
                        "Keep one window tidy oh, Keep two windows tidy oh, Keep three windows tidy oh, Jingle at the window
                            tidy oh! Jingle at the window tidy oh!"
                    
                
                Our recollection of the above is that they were dances rather than marches. In another the players formed two
                    parallel lines facing each other. A girl, followed by a boy, marched up between the lines, and at the end they
                    returned, she behind the line of girls, he behind the boys. This was repeated, the pace increasing as the song
                    grew faster, the girl's object being to reach the lower end first and evade her partner, who, when he caught
                    her, was entitled to a kiss. The accompanying song was: 
                    
                        "Chase the squirrel, if you please, Chase the squirrel, if you please, Chase the squirrel, if you
                            please, And catch your love so handy.
                        "A little faster, if you please, A little faster, if you please, A little faster, if you please, And
                            catch your love so handy."
                     The song waxed "a little faster" each time, until the consummation. Another, into which the preceding
                    could easily glide, was: 
                        "Oh, yonder comes my sweetheart; and how do you do? And how have you been since I last saw you? The war
                            is all over, and peace is in the land; Can't you wish us joy by the raising of your hands?"
                     The two lines of players, at the last, raised their clasped hands so as to form an arch under which
                    the united couple passed to take their places at the upper end. Another we remember, which, little else than a 
                        Virginia
                     reel with a vocal accompaniment, ran: 
                        "Do ce do, to your best liking, Do ce do, to your best liking, Do ce do, to your best liking, And swing
                            your love so handy!"
                    
                
                It is somewhat remarkable that in our many local histories there is little or no mention of these games that
                    have been so prominent in the early social life of the State, and, as suggested above, there is an unworked
                    field here for the student of early customs.
            
            
            
                INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT IN INDIANA.
                No. I–THE FIRST THOROUGHFARES.
                
                    The Indian Trails–Pioneer Traces–The First Road System;
                        Legislation of 1820; Road Building in that Decade; Wretched Character of the Highways and Difficulties of
                        Early Travel.
                
                [This article on Early Thoroughfares, originally prepared for State Geologist, W. S. Blatchley, to form a
                    chapter in the thirtieth annual geological report, is here reprinted as the first of a series that will deal
                    with the principal internal improvement works that have developed within the State. The plan, as at present
                    conceived, will take up besides this theme, road improvements, canals and railroads.–Editor.]
                
                THE first thoroughfares of Indiana, while somewhat remote, perhaps, from present interests, have yet some
                    relation to the after history of the State, besides possessing a certain historic interest of their own. Of
                    these primitive ways for travel and transportation the earliest, long antedating the white man's advent, were
                    the Indian trails–-narrow, winding routes beaten by many feet traveling in single file, and akin to the paths
                    made by animals. It should be noted, however, that there was one radical distinction between them and the
                    animal paths, for while the latter had the feeding grounds for their termini, the former, primarily, conducted
                    from abiding place to abiding place. In other words, the human propensity for intercommunication as
                    distinguished from mere gregariousness was revealed by those obscure forest highways, and by virtue of that
                    they were something other than mere random ways–they were a system.
                If this system could be restored in a chart we would be surprised, no doubt, to find what a network it formed,
                    reaching over the country in various directions. No such restoration would be possible now, however, for,
                    though there are many allusions to them in our local histories, what information we have about these old
                    trails is scattered, meager and indefinite. About all we know is that the various tribes and bands of Indians
                    occupied each their own territory, usually along the valleys of the principal rivers, and that they visited to
                    and fro more or less for the purposes of counsel or other reasons. Between the tribes of this  region little hostility is recorded, and there seems to have been considerable
                    friendly intercourse and formal visiting among them. Following the rivers from town to town, and across from
                    valley to valley, their paths can be traced. It is likely that the Miami town of Ke-ki-on-ga, where 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     now stands, was, from its important command of the Wabash portage, the converging point of many trails, for Little Turtle, in his speech before
                    Anthony Wayne at the treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , refers to the place as "that glorious gate through which all the good words of our chiefs had to
                    pass, from the north to the south, and from the east to the west."
                At the junction of Fall creek and White river, also, several paths seem to have met, by reason, it
                    is said, of a good ford across the river that existed there. Such at least has been affirmed by the late J. H.
                    B. Nowland, a very early pioneer of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who has told the writer definitely of several trails –-one from 
                        Vincennes
                    , one from the falls of the Ohio, one from
                    the 
                        Whitewater
                    , and others from the upper 
                        Delaware
                     towns on White river and the Pottawattamie and
                    Miami towns on the Wabash, all of which converged
                    at this point. The one westward from the Whitewater valley ran about where the Pennsylvania railroad now has
                    its right-of-way and' that from the Ohio falls
                    paralleled the present 
                        Jeffersonville
                     railroad. The latter route was, seemingly, traveled by all the Pottawattamies, Miamis and
                    Delawares of the upper Wabash and White rivers in their excursions to the 
                        Kentucky
                     hunting grounds, as, after, crossing the above-mentioned ford, it sent off branches to the towns
                    of those tribes.
                The Indian pathmaker not infrequently marked the way for the white man's thoroughfares, and his work was thus
                    perpetuated in the civilization of his successors. Out of his thorough knowledge of the topography of the
                    country he found out the best routes, not only for his kind of traveling, but for the kind of traveling that
                    was to come after. When James Blake and William Conner viewed, as commissioners, the first road between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , they found after leaving White river that
                    they could not improve upon the judgment of the Indians as shown in their old trace.
                
                One of the earliest wagon-ways out of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the old 
                        Centerville
                     road, which led to 
                        Wayne county
                     before the coming of the National Road, was laid out on the Whitewater trail above referred to,
                    just south of the Pennsylvania tracks, and mention may be found here and there of other roads that were
                    similarly determined. Moreover, the earliest pioneers were benefited directly by these aboriginal trails, for
                    not only did they first follow them from one place to another through the otherwise trackless wilderness in
                    search of desirable regions, but their rude "traces" for subsequent ingress and egress were frequently but
                    their improvement on the red man's too-narrow footpath. Perhaps it is not venturing too much to say that they
                    were at times an influence in the locating of white settlements. For instance, the first settlers on the spot
                    where 
                        Indianapolis
                     now stands were, if tradition is to be trusted, led hither by the 
                        Whitewater
                     trail. When the commissioners appointed by the legislature came to locate the capital, the
                    presence of the squatters at the mouth of Pall creek was undoubtedly a factor in determining the choice of
                    that spot; and so it might not be considering too curiously to reason out a relation between this obscure path
                    through the forest primeval and the exact locating of the State's capital with all that that implies.
                Before anything like permanent roads could be established a considerable population of settlers had taken up
                    lands in the interior of the State, and there had to be makeshift thoroughfares not only for guidance to
                    various localities, but for the transportation of the immigrant's possessions. These traces, as they were
                    called, were the rudest of forest roads, cleared away sufficiently to permit the passage of the mover's
                    wagons, and marked along the route by "blazing" or marking the trees with an axe.* These
                    traces from east and south, with their various branches leading to this or that settlement, were well known to
                    the immigrants in their day, but, like the Indian trails, they are long since obliterated, and, for the most
                    part, only vague allusions to them are to be found in local histories. Of at least two of them, however, some
                    record has been preserved, and these are of special interest because they were the trunk lines, so to speak,
                    over 
                        
                            * A road running southward from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , called to the present day the "Three Notch Road," took its name from the three
                            distinguishing ax marks.
                    
                     which the first waves of immigration found their way in to people the
                    central portion of the State. They were known respectively as the Berry and Whetzel traces.
                The Berry trace, marked out by a Captain John Berry, or, as Judge Banta gives it, Richard Berry, joined and
                    followed the Ohio Falls Indian trail above mentioned,
                    which crossed White river at Fall creek. It was the chief line of travel from the south. The best account
                    of this route is given by Mr. Nowland in describing the journey of his family to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1820. According to him it began at 
                        Napoleon
                    , 
                        Ripley county
                     (south of that being settled country), and thence ran almost west to a point on Flatrock river about nine miles north of where 
                        Columbus
                     now stands. At the end of this stage of perhaps thirty miles stood the first house after leaving 
                        Napoleon
                    . Then the trace turned north to follow the said Indian trail, and this, with two or three more
                    cabins on the way, brought them to the embryo capital. Further information concerning the pioneer whose name
                    has been perpetuated by his old trace the present writer has been unable to glean.
                What was known as the Whetzel trace was made in 1818 by Jacob Whetzel, one of the four brothers famous in the
                    annals of Indian warfare. It afforded ingress from the already settled 
                        Whitewater
                     region on the east, and is also described by Mr. Nowland. It began, he tells us, in 
                        Franklin county
                    , somewhere near where 
                        Laurel
                     now stands, ran west till it struck the Flatrock
                        river seven miles below the site of 
                        Rushville
                    , thence to the Blue river where 
                        Marion and 
                        Shelby
                     counties join, thence west to the bluffs of White
                        river. This was the most notable of all these early traces, for by it, we are told, hundreds of
                    immigrants came to settle 
                        Shelby
                    , Morgan,
                            Johnson and
                            Marion counties.
                    Those bound for the new capital followed it till it reached the Berry trace, then turned north on the latter,
                    and many of the first families of 
                        Indianapolis
                     were beholden to the sturdy old Indian fighter for his unrequited service, which, indeed, he had
                    performed at no small cost to himself. He and his son Cyrus, with the help of four good axemen, cleared the
                    way for "a width sufficient to admit the passage of a team," as Judge Banta tells us, through vast stretches
                    of tangled forest and swamp lands where of nights they had to build up brush piles to sleep on.  In 1825 a petition, presented to the legislature by William Conner in behalf of
                    Jacob Whetzel, prayed compensation for the cutting of this road, the eastern terminus being there designated
                    as "Summerset." Said petition, along with various others, was referred to a committee on roads, which reported
                    back that, "in the opinion of the committee, it would be inexpedient to legislate on any of the aforesaid
                    petitions." (See House Journal, 1825, pp. 89 and 170.)
                At the intersection of the Whetzel and Berry traces (about two miles southwest of 
                        Greenwood
                    , in 
                        Johnson county
                    ), a man named Daniel Loper "squatted" and offered entertainment, after a fashion, to incoming
                    travelers. Before long, however, a fellow named Nathan Bell ousted Loper by falsely representing himself as
                    the legal purchaser of the land, and next took possession of the desirable point, where for a good while he
                    kept a disreputable sort of a place, surrounded by "his clan of adherents, generally bold, bad men," the
                    history of which place and clan would, according to Judge Franklin Hardin, a reminiscent of 
                        Johnson county
                    , "make a large volume." Loper moved along the trace some miles farther east, and, still bent on
                    "entertaining," pitched his shanty on Hurricane creek, where was the first good water and the first good
                    camping place after coming out of the swamps. He stayed there a couple of years, then went none know whither,
                    but his pole cabin, long known as Loper's, continued to be a favorite halting place for incoming travelers,
                    the dilapidated hut being facetiously dubbed the "Emigrant's Hotel." Judge Hardin describes the place as
                    several acres trodden over bynmen and animals, with many inclosuresof poles and brush put up by sojourners to
                    keep their stock from wandering.
                By 1826 Whetzel's trace was no longer used, at least at the west end, being impeded with fallen trees. By this
                    time, too, many State roads were being opened into the interior, and the need for the first traces ceased to
                    exist. Not having a legalized right-of-way it was in time, of course, taken up by private owners as the land
                    was entered, and so long since lost the last evidence of its identity.
                It was not until four years after Indiana had been admitted as a State that any definite system of roads was
                    projected within her  borders. Prior to that general laws had been framed
                    touching the opening of highways, for with the first tides of immigration, of course, came the question of
                    intercommunication; but they provided only for the opening of local roads on petition. In those first years
                    there was little pressing need for other than local roads, for Indiana was, for the most part, strung along
                    the Ohio and Wabash rivers, which were the generally used, natural highways. 
                        Versailles
                    , 
                        Vernon
                     and 
                        Brownstown
                    , but a few miles back from the Ohio,
                    were, until 1820, on the extreme frontier, the vast country on the north and west of them being an unbroken
                    wilderness, and the principal centers were contiguous to one or the other of the two rivers named.
                In 1820, however, there arose new reasons for extensive road-making. The great tract known as the "New
                    Purchase," comprising all the central portion of the State and as far north as the upper Wabash, was thrown open to settlers in that year.
                    Somewhere in the heart of this territory the seat of government was to be located at once and it was obvious
                    that the capital and the settlers who would people the newly acquired tract must have some way of reaching the
                    older parts of the country and the world's markets. This would seem to be the rational explanation of the
                    sudden legislation on State roads that appears in the statutes at this time. In 1820 not less than twenty-six
                    roads were projected, and as many sets of commissioners appointed to view the lands and mark out the routes.
                    The roads not only connected the older towns of the State, but extended into the interior. Five were to lead
                    to the proposed capital, and one was from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Winchester
                    , this latter being by a subsequent act extended to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . During the next ten years there was repeated and lengthy legislature on this subject of State
                    roads, showing the paramount importance of highways in the early days of the new commonwealth. Many other
                    roads were added to the original system, some were relocated, and there were various modifications. In the
                    main, however, the first ideas were carried out, and on a road map of 1835, now existing, at least two-thirds
                    of the State is pretty well criss-crossed with highways other than the local or country roads.
                The revenue and labor for the opening and maintaining of these roads were derived from three distinct sources.
                    The first was known as the three per cent. fund, and was a donation from 
                    the general government. Out of the sale of public lands five per cent, was set aside for purposes of internal
                    improvement. Of this, two per cent, was to be expended by the 
                        United States
                     on works of general benefit-–such, for example, as the National Road–-and the remaining three per
                    cent. was given to the State for improvements within her borders. Into this fund there was paid, altogether,
                    the sum of $575,547.75.* A special agent was appointed for disbursing the fund, and his
                    duties were defined at length.
                Another internal revenue was derived from a "road tax" levied upon real estate. Farm lands were assessed "an
                    amount equal to half the amount of State tax," and town lots "an amount equal to half the county tax."
                    Non-resident land-owners were assessed an amount equal to both half the State and half the county tax. Such
                    road tax the land-owner was entitled to discharge in work on the roads (see Acts of 1825).
                The third source of maintenance was a labor requirement, which made it incumbent on all male inhabitants
                    between the ages of twenty-one and fifty, except preachers and certain other exempts, to work on the roads two
                    days in each year, when called out, or pay an equivalent thereof. In the New Purchase, where the labor
                    necessary was still greater than farther south, the demand was for four days each year, but this provision was
                    repealed in 1827.
                But establishing roads by legislative enactment was only a first and very inadequate step toward easy travel
                    and transportation. Moreover, it was not altogether a satisfactory first step, for then, as now, there was
                    much log-rolling, self-seeking and lack of economy in public works, and in Governor Ray's message of 1825 the
                    question was raised as to whether the large expenditures "have answered the expectations of the
                    public"–whether they had not been used extravagantly in the employment of too many commissioners, in the
                    opening of useless roads, and in suffering roads to become useless by a second growth and the failure to keep
                    in repair. Aside from this, after the highways were cut out and the labor of the population expended upon
                    them, they were hardly more practicable than the drift-choked streams which were fondly regarded as
                    navigable.
                Of the atrocious character of those early highways much has 
                        
                            * Elbert Jay Benton, in "The Wabash Trade Route," p. 41.
                    
                     been said, and yet the subject, seemingly, has never been given justice.
                    From the hills of the southern counties to the prairies beyond the Wabash, the State was, for the most part, a level plain covered with a
                    forest that shut out the sun from the rank mold, and this, like a sponge, held the accumulated waters. Vast
                    areas were nothing but swamps, which the streams never fully drained.* Most of the year a
                    journey over the roads was simply a slow, laborious wallowing through mud; the bogs were passable only by the
                    use of "corduroy," and this corduroy of poles laid side by side for miles not infrequently had to be weighted
                    down with dirt to prevent floating off when the swamp waters rose. In a book called "The New Purchase," which
                    purports to depict life in central Indiana in the early twenties, the wagon trip to 
                        Bloomington
                     is described in the author's peculiar, half-intelligible style. He speaks of the country as
                    "buttermilk land," "mash land," "rooty and snaggy land," with mudholes and quicksands and corduroys, "woven
                    single and double twill," and there are fords with and without bottom." In the early spring, he says, the
                    streams were brim full, "creeks turned to rivers, rivers to lakes, and lakes to bigger ones, and traveling by
                    land becomes traveling by mud and water." As one proceeded he must tack to right and left, not to find the
                    road, but to get out of it and find places where the mud was "thick enough to bear." The way was a "most
                    ill-looking, dark-colored morass, enlivened by streams of purer mud (the roads) crossing at right angles," and
                    these streams were "thickset with stumps cut just low enough for wagons to straddle." Innumerable stubs of
                    saplings, sharpened like spears by being shorn off obliquely, waited to impale the unlucky traveler who might
                    be pitched out upon them, and the probability of such accident was considerable as the lumbering wagon plunged
                    over a succession of ruts and roots, describing an "exhilerating seesaw with the most astonishing alternation
                    of plunge, creak and splash." Ever and anon the brimming streams had to be crossed, 
                        
                            * Mr. William Butler, a pioneer of Southern Indiana, has told the present writer
                            of a trip he made to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the thirties. He stopped over night with a settler in 
                                Johnson county
                            , and, inquiring as to the country east of them, was told that there was no other
                            residence in that direction for thirty miles. "And what's more, there never will be," the informant
                            added, his reason being that the submerged land was irreclaimable. It may be remarked, incidentally,
                            that the swamp in question has long ago been converted into fine farms.
                    
                     sometimes by unsafe fording and sometimes by rude ferries. In the latter
                    case the ferry-keeper was apt to be off at work somewhere in his clearing, and the traveler had to "halloo the
                    ferry" till he could make himself heard.
                This seemingly exaggerated account of the author might be confirmed by many references, but three or four brief
                    anecdotes which the writer has gleaned at first hand from pioneers will do. The first of these, told by the
                    late J. H. B. Nowland, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is that once, when on his way by stage from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he was upset in the middle of a swollen stream, and in the effort to save his life he lost his
                    coat, which, with thirty or forty dollars in the pocket, was swept away. Another is that of Mr. George W.
                    Julian, who, when a child, traveled by wagon from the Wea plains on the Wabash to Wayne county . Crossing a stream, the water proved unexpectedly deep and the
                    bank so precipitous that the horses lost their footing and were forced entirely under the flood by the
                    descending wagon. Similar to this was an experience of Mr. William Shimer, of Irvington. When his family moved
                    to 
                        Marion county
                     they entered a stream by a descent so steep that a great feather-bed stowed in the front of the
                    wagon rolled out and covered the driver. Mr. Nowland also relates in his book of reminiscences that a
                    migratory wag once wrote these lines in the register-book of a 
                        Franklin
                     tavern: 
                        "The roads are impassable-–hardly jackassable; I think those that travel 'em should turn out and gravel
                            'em.
                    
                
                Such were the early thoroughfares of Indiana, and these, with the exception of an uncertain outlet by the
                    larger streams, were the only means of travel and transportation for the greater part of the State with its
                    growing population. That the character of the thoroughfares impeded growth, handicapped commerce and held in
                    check the influences that are essential to development is very obvious to the student of that development
                    within our borders. The difficulties that were overcome and the building up of the commonwealth in spite of
                    such handicap is an evidence of the sturdiness of the stock that peopled the State.
                
                    [Next number, the National and Michigan Roads, and Road Improvements.]
                
                GEO. S. COTTMAN.
            
            
            
                OLD STAGE-COACH DAYS.
                
                    BY E. I. LEWIS.
                
                AT 
                        Centerville
                    , a few years ago, two small books were unearthed in a collection of old relics dating back to the
                    halcyon days when 
                        Centerville
                     was the center of a stage universe. Both were copies of "Indiana Delineated and Stage Guide for
                    Travelers to ths West." The first edition dated back to 1838, prior to the canal days. In the later
                    edition-–1847-–the canal routes were added to those covered by stage. The old stage maps tell an interesting
                    story of the decline of great traffic centers. Many of the most prominent, such as 
                        Merom
                    , 
                        Napoleon
                    , 
                        Montezuma
                    , 
                        Fredonia
                    , 
                        Strawtown
                    , 
                        Michigantown
                    , 
                        Northfield
                     and 
                        Putnamville
                     have almost completely been forgotten, while some of the most important centers of travel, such
                    as 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Paoli
                    , 
                        Jasper
                    , 
                        Brookville
                    , 
                        Liberty
                    , 
                        Burlington
                     and 
                        Laketon
                    , have declined in transportation importance, while they have increased in population.
                In the old Indiana stage days 
                        Philadelphia
                    , instead of 
                        New York
                    , was the center of the Eastern world, and the guide books gave information and advice to
                    prospective tourists as to how they should proceed. In 1838 stage travelers were advised to go from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Harrisburg
                     by railroad and canal; or to 
                        Harrisburg
                     entirely by railroad; from 
                        Harrisburg
                     by Juniata river to 
                        Hollidaysburg
                    ; by canal and the Allegany river to 
                        Pittsburg
                    , and thence down the Ohio river. To
                    travelers from New York
                    and New England was recommended a route to 
                        Albany
                     by water, and from 
                        Whitesboro
                     to 
                        Buffalo
                     by canal; from 
                        Buffalo
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                     by boat, thence to 
                        Portsmouth
                     by the Ohio canal and down the river to 
                        Cincinnati
                    or Indiana landings. If bound for northern Indiana they were advised to proceed to 
                        Toledo
                     from 
                        Buffalo
                     and thence by the newly-constructed canal to the Indiana line and enter via 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    .
                The time that would probably be consumed by these trips is not given. The all-stage routes, not advised when
                    the traveler was heavily incumbered with baggage or household effects, carried the travelers across 
                        Ohio
                    , and in the guide of 1847, issued  after the old National Road
                    was opened through, it was the route favored. It and its connections ran from 
                        Washington
                     to 
                        Hagerstown
                    , 
                        Wheeling
                     and 
                        Columbus
                    , to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , via 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Vandalia
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and thence with connections to 
                        Gallatin
                    , Ft. Leavenworth and the West, a distance of 1,112 miles.
                
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     was the State's stage center and the following advertisement of the old stage-coach days is
                    interesting:
                "STAGE LINE FROM 
                        INDIANAPOLIS
                     TO 
                        CRAWFORDSVILLE
                     AND 
                        DANVILLE
                    , 
                        ILL.
                    , THREE TIMES A WEEK.
                "Coaches leave 
                        Indianapolis
                     every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, at 9 o'clock, and arrive at 
                        Danville
                     next day, at 5 o'clock p. m., where travelers proceed without delay to 
                        Peoria
                    , 
                        Ill.
                    , and 
                        Bloomington
                    , Ia.,* in regular post coaches. At 
                        Crawfordsville
                     this line intersects a line of coaches to 
                        Lafayette
                    , 
                        Ia.
                    , where they arrive at 11 a. m., the next day. Connection can be made by the route for 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     points and for 
                        South Bend
                    , northern Indiana points and 
                        Michigan
                    . The distance by the direct line, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Peoria
                    , is 217 miles, which is traveled in four days without any night traveling, in good coaches, with
                    steady, moral and careful drivers and the best of horses."
                The average cost for stage-coach travel, for the entire State, was a little less than 5 cents a mile. The rate
                    of travel in good weather and favorable roads was seven to eight miles an hour. Most of the stages were
                    operated on the plan indicated by the advertisement of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                        Danville
                     road, with stops for night, and an average of fifty-five to sixty miles a day. On the National
                    Road, however, the stages did not stop for night, and would average 150 or more miles a day, in favorable
                    weather. The ride from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Logansport
                     took almost a week, and that from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        White Pigeon
                    , 
                        Mich.
                    , was but a day shorter, and took the traveler over the famous old line of Levi Coffin's
                    underground railroad north to freedom for enslaved blacks.
                These "fast" schedules, however, are for good weather, favorable season and solid roads. When these conditions
                    did not prevail, and the "corduroy" was often afloat, travel by stage was not only uncertain, but all
                    schedules were abandoned and the "stager" floundered around at a two- or three-mile gait.
                
                    
                        * The early abbreviation for Indiana.
                
                
                T. A. GOODWIN'S EXPERIENCE.
                On a Wednesday noon, in 1837, Thomas Goodwin, the well-known veteran Methodist preacher, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , left 
                        Brookville
                     for 
                        Greencastle
                     to enter old Asbury University. It had been raining. The old four-horse stage lumbered along at a
                    slow rate and reached Bulltown, seventeen miles from 
                        Brookville
                    , that night at 7 o'clock. Goodwin put up for the night. The next morning he found a butcher's
                    wagon, without springs, a seat or cover–-the stage-–waiting at the door for him, and in a rainstorm that had
                    set the corduroy afloat, the start was made for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The fifty miles to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was one great quagmire and at 8 o'clock that night, when the "stage" was still six miles from the
                    capital, an axle gave way. The driver took Goodwin's trunk ahead of him on the "off" horse, and the
                    contracting agent, with the mail in front of him and his passenger on behind, rode the "nigh" horse into 
                        Indianapolis
                    , arriving at midnight and too late to catch the West stage. Goodwin had a day's lay-over, in
                    which to inspect the new State House and the largest city he had ever seen.
                At 10 o'clock that night he climbed on the nine-seated 
                        St. Louis
                     limited stage and started for 
                        Putnamville
                    . The road was macadamized as far as Eagle
                        creek, but there the bogs were en-counted again, and the stage came to a standstill. The eight
                    male passengers were ordered out and sent to the nearby rail fence to get pries. They extricated the stage
                    from the mudhole and were ready to get aboard, when the driver announced that they had better carry those
                    rails on down the road, for they would need them again. 
                        Plainfield
                    , fourteen miles out, was reached in time for breakfast, and 
                        Putnamville
                     at 4 o'clock. Goodwin reached 
                        Greencastle
                     at 9 o'clock the next Sunday morning, having covered 124 miles in a little less than four full
                    days and traveling two nights, at a total cost of about $8 or $9 fare and boarding and lodging.
                With the old stages have disappeared the old taverns, with their uniform charge of 25 cents for a bed or meal
                    and a "rip" for a "dram." Though in these days the rate seems low, many good fortunes were made in these old
                    taverns, whose proprietors bought pork at $1.25 a hundred, eggs at 3 cents a dozen,  whisky at 25 cents a gallon, and all other supplies at correspondingly low
                    rates.
                EDITORIAL NOTES.–Calvin Fletcher, Jr., thus describes a stage trip to 
                        Chicago
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in March, 1848. "It took the first twenty-four hours to reach Kirklin, in 
                        Boone county
                    , the next twenty-four to 
                        Logansport
                     and the next thirty-six to reach 
                        South Bend
                    . A rest then of twenty-four hours on account of high water ahead, then thirty-six hours to 
                        Chicago
                    –-five days of hard travel in mud or on corduroy, or sand, the whole way. There was," Mr. Fletcher
                    adds, "at that time of the year, no direct route from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    . The Kankakee was impassable, except
                    at the extreme headwaters, between 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Laporte
                    . Lemon's bridge over the Kankakee
                    between 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     was inaccessible on account of water. In the summer passenger coaches went through, but when wet
                    weather came the mud wagon was used to carry passengers and mail, and when the mud became too deep the mail
                    was piled into crates, canvas-covered and hauled through."
                As late as the sixties travel in some parts of the State was still of the old primitive character. During that
                    decade and well into the next one, Walker H. Winslow ran a stage–-the "Governor Morton," between 
                        Anderson
                     and 
                        Marion
                    . He was owner, driver and mail conductor for fourteen years. He had to keep eight head of horses
                    for the stage. Four were required during the winter, and occasionally he had to change horses at 
                        Alexandria
                    . The stage coach was of the style built before the civil war. It carried twelve people, but it
                    was frequently crowded with sixteen or twenty. Winslow received $300 a year from the government for carrying
                    the mail between 
                        Anderson
                     and 
                        Marion
                    . On the rear end of the coach was the "baggage booth," where trunks were stored. The mail pouches
                    were carried under the driver's seat. There were not many mail pouches in those days, and the stage generally
                    had to stand at the small towns along the way and wait till the postmaster opened the mail pouch and "made up"
                    the out-going mail. Winslow also filled the exciting role of express-carrier, and one day he carried $30,000.
                    Many times he had to be "diplomatic." Once he had  a large sum of money in
                    gold. It was in two small shot sacks. Stopping at 
                        Alexandria
                     for dinner, Winslow says he took off his overshoes while on the stage and slipped a sack of gold
                    into each shoe. He then carried his overshoes into the dining-room and apologized for his absent-mindedness,
                    but he had the overshoes where he could touch them with his feet, and no one at the table knew they were
                    eating over a fortune.
            
            
                FIRST 
                        VINCENNES
                     AND 
                        INDIANAPOLIS
                     ROAD.
                
                    BY HENRY BAKER.
                
                THESE facts concerning the first wagon road connecting 
                        Vincennes
                     with 
                        Indianapolis
                     were secured by the writer many years ago from Martin Wines, one of the early settlers of 
                        Greene county
                    . The road, or trail, as it was long called, was established in the fall of 1822. An unusual fact
                    connected with it was that it was marked out by dragging a log, or brush, as different reports have it, with
                    an ox team over the entire distance of 120 miles, through the woods, prairies and marshes. The thick, high
                    grass on the prairies, and the wild pea vines in the woods so obstructed progress that the dragging of this
                    log or brush was considered the best and cheapest way to mark the route, as mowing would have been too slow.
                    An engineer or surveyor was employed by the State to keep the course, as many variations had to be made from a
                    straight line to suit the lay of the land and the best crossings of the many streams and marshes. The route
                    was directly through the site of 
                        Linton
                    , 
                        Greene county
                    , and near the home of Martin Wines. Latta's creek marsh, named for John Latta, one of the early
                    settlers, was exactly in the line of the survey, and as Mr. Wines was familiar with the lay of the country he
                    was asked to mark out the best ground to cross the marsh. The way by which he piloted the company became the
                    roadway, and was so used until a few years ago. Along the trail in the woods trees were blazed, and in the
                    prairies tall poles reaching above the high grass were set to guide the travelers.*
                
                
                    
                        * Mr. Baker probably means that these guides were used before the road was marked
                            out.–Editor.
                    
                
            
            
            
                A RECOLLECTION OF DENNIS PENNINGTON.
                
                    BY JOHN W. RAY.
                
                DENNIS PENNINGTON, a man almost wholly forgotten at the present day, and about whom little or no information
                    can be gleaned in our published histories and biographies, was one of the remarkable men of our State in its
                    formative period. So far as long-continued public service goes, perhaps no man at any period has been more
                    intimately identified with the making of the State. No other man, I believe, in the whole history of the
                    commonwealth, has so frequently represented his constituents in the councils of the State. In this respect his
                    career was certainly notable. As early as 1810 his name appears as speaker in the territorial legislature. He
                    was a delegate from 
                        Harrison county
                     to the constitutional convention of 1816, and as such he had an influence in the very beginnings
                    of our legal framework. With the convening of our first legislature he took his seat in the Senate, and during
                    sessions 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 27, 28, 29 he was a member of that body. During sessions 7, 8, 13,
                    14, and 30 he was in the House. This makes thirteen years as a Senator and five as a Representative, or
                    eighteen all told, as a legislator during the thirty years of his political activity. From sessions 1 to 4, 7
                    to 11, 15 to 17 and 27 to 30 (inclusive) his services were unbroken-–a fact, surely, which must argue a
                    phenomenal popularity and standing with his constituents.
                It should be noted that Dennis Pennington represented a type of man that was held in esteem by our pioneer
                    fathers, and a type that cut something of a figure among our early public men. He was uneducated, so far as
                    the schools went, but educated by his contact with life and men. Above all, he possessed the virtues of
                    honesty and a robust common sense–-what the rank and file appreciate and designate as "horse sense"–-and,
                    something which, if coupled with honesty of purpose, rarely fails to go right and counts for more than mere
                    learning. He was, moreover, outside of his public usefulness, a man of practical, mechanical ability, and the
                    old State House at 
                        Corydon
                    , as  well as the famous old inn a mile out of town, built by
                    him, still stand as monuments to his skill. Like the body of those who shaped the beginnings of the State, he
                    was a Christian, being a member, I believe (though of this I am not sure) of t[he] Baptist church.
                My personal recollection of Dennis Pennington dates back to the middle thirties. Ever since the seat of
                    government was removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in 1825, he had been a boarder at the house of my grandmother, Elizabeth Nowland, one of the
                    best-known public houses in the town, and his place in our family had come to be much like that of a
                    relative–-indeed, he was familiarly known to all the family as "Uncle Dennis." My father and mother moved to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in 1836, and Uncle Dennis was a frequent visitor at our home there. I remember him as a genial,
                    kindly old man, beloved by everybody, and the kind of one to win the heart of a boy. He was somewhat large and
                    heavy, with a big, smooth, smiling face, a cordial, hearty hand-grasp, and of a jocular nature. I recall that
                    when he came he used always to greet my mother with upraised forefinger shaken in playful reproof, and with
                    the words: "Sallie, Sallie, you bad girl, to make me drunk!" This was reminiscent of earlier days, and thereby
                    hung a story. When mother was a young woman and Uncle Dennis a boarder with my grandmother in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he came in one day and found the daughter of the house taking a nap on the lounge in the
                    sitting-room. Securing a corn dodger, some ham, and generous et ceteras on a platter, he left them on a chair
                    beside the sleeper. My mother accepted the little joke as a challenge, and with a vim characteristic of her,
                    planned retaliation. Uncle Dennis was inordinately fond of mince pie, and, while a strong temperance advocate,
                    was not averse to a tang of brandy in his favorite dessert. The day after the dodger and ham offering a great
                    fat pie of extra temping quality sat smoking hot beside the Pennington plate, intended for his sole
                    consumption. He consumed it, leaving not a crumb behind. When the legislature met at 2 p. m., Pennington of 
                        Harrison
                     was not in his seat. At 3 the town was alarmed by the rumor that Uncle Dennis had been poisoned.
                    The legislature adjourned in a panic and came down to the Nowland house to learn about it; the citizens
                    gathered about the place in  awe, and Drs. Dunlap and Sanders came to
                    investigate, but only to be puzzled. Then Sallie, the joker, confessed: Uncle Dennis had merely taken a good
                    stiff glass of cognac brandy along with his mince pie.
                I think of Dennis Pennington as a grand old man, who did long and honest and valuable service to the young
                    commonwealth. That he and what he did have passed so completely away from the knowledge of men is regrettable,
                    and as one of the few survivors who remember him I take pleasure in recalling him, even briefly, to the
                    present generation.
                [Note.–The above recollections were submitted to us shortly before Mr. Ray's death, a few months since.–Editor.]
            
            
                A DENNIS PENNINGTON LETTER.
                [In connection with the foregoing article this letter from Dennis Pennington to Colonel John Paul, of 
                        Madison
                    , will contribute somewhat to our scant information about the man. For one thing, Mr. Ray's
                    reference to his lack of schooling is here illustrated. There are two points of particular interest in this
                    letter. One is the evidence that in 1815 there was a fight for the removal of the capital from 
                        Corydon
                     to 
                        Salem
                    , and that 
                        Madison
                     also seems to have harbored an aspiration in this direction–-facts that have been lost to
                    history. The other is that there was also an agitation for the removal of the 
                        Jefferson county
                     seat of justice from 
                        Madison
                     to some more central point. In the somewhat fragmentary historical material relating to 
                        Jefferson county
                     there is, we believe, no reference to this movement. The letter, now in our possession, was found
                    in 
                        Jefferson county
                     not long since.–Editor.]
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Corydon November 3rd 1815
                                Dear Sir.
                                I have thought it not criminal to Drope you a few lines by mail on publical affairs as I have
                                    had it in contemplation for some time and still neglected it from time to time and at last
                                    have made the venter. I discovered some time ago in the Western Eagle that the party Sperit in
                                    your County to a vary high Degree respecting the removeal of the sete of Justice of your
                                    County to the center of the same as though it had never been fixed by the unamous request of
                                    the citizens of the County at Its first Erection in to a County. It is astonishing to see what
                                    party sperit will Do; thay have forgotten the Dammage those must  sustain that have propity in the Town of 
                                        Madison
                                    . thay would be willing I suppose that 
                                        Madison
                                     should sink so thay could rise on the ruens thereof. But I can Assure you I am
                                    not fond of contenenceing such things that has been so unanimously Done by the people as 
                                        Madison
                                     was, if it had been Done Contrary to the wishes of the majority of the people it
                                    would be another thing. But that is not the ceaase, and as such I certainly must protest
                                    against it. I also feel myself under some obligation to 
                                        Madison
                                     in as much as your last representative have been true to the Interest of this
                                    place in As much as when the subject of the removeal of the sete of Government came under
                                    consideration He was opposed to it, Except he thought thare was a posibility of geting it to
                                    his own County and when he found there were no chance he voted against its removeal, for my
                                    own parte as tuching the removeal of the seat of Government I think it noncence at this time
                                    while under A territorial government for the time is not far when we will be vested with power
                                    by General Government to call a convention to fraim a constitution of our own and that
                                    convention undoubtedly will have it in their power to say under certain restrictions where it
                                    shall be, though I must confess that I should Be opposed to it at this time, as we would
                                    certainly have to pay a parte of the national Debt, and paying the officers of Government
                                    would bare hard on us, as our taxes is very high at this time, and no money in the tresury I
                                    am told that thay are at 
                                        Salem
                                     Determed to take it up on wheles as soon as the Legislature meets and bare it
                                    off. But I trust our legislature will be composed of such men as will wisely consider the
                                    subject and when thay Do remove it; it will Be for the good of the community at large and not
                                    for a few individuals. Whenever the situation will admitt of its going near the center and Do
                                    Justice to the community let it be done, but 
                                        Salem
                                     never shall enjoy it if I can help it, I have no notion of humouring them in that
                                    way thay are Children and as such I will treat them I have understood that Perry is taken by
                                    force and Carried to 
                                        Kentucky
                                     if this be the case it is unsufferrable and ought not to be countenenced among
                                    heathens much more By people of Christianity it ought to be represented to the Governor and he
                                    make a demand of the Governor of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    
                                     thay ought to be made an example of for their conduct.
                                    Thay were afread to let him have a fair trial in this country
                                let us be on our gard when our convention men is Chosen that thay may be men opposed to
                                    slavery, I ad no more at present.
                                I am in the highest consideration your friend and Humb Servent
                                    DENNIS PENNINGTON
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Colo. John Paul.
                
            
            
                SOME COMMENTS ON TIPTON'S JOURNAL
                
                    BY CAPT. JOHN T. CAMPBELL.
                
                I HAVE read with particular interest the Journal of John Tipton, published in your last issue, describing the
                    route taken by Gen. W. H. Harrison in his Tippecanoe
                    campaign. I am pretty well acquainted with the country all through 
                        Parke county
                    , and from 
                        Clinton
                     to 
                        Newport
                    , in 
                        Vermilion county
                    , I am very familiar with the topography. I have surveyed in every river section in 
                        Parke county
                    . I have tried to keep track of Tipton in 
                        Parke
                     and 
                        Vermilion
                     counties, but I can not. He jumps hither and yonder; the only thing that follows in successive
                    order is his dates. But he was not employed to be the historian of the campaign, and as a volunteer he did
                    remarkably well, and it is interesting as well as disappointing to read his Journal.
                Friday, Oct. 4th–-"Crosst a fine creek." This would be Otter
                        creek. "Came to another and camped." This would be Gundy's Run or Clear creek. Saturday, 5th–-"Crosst a fine large creek." I can't imagine what
                    he saw. "All the forepart of this day we had a ridge on our right and good land and good springs on our left."
                    This is correct. He says he went with the boat to Vermilion
                        river to get coal. That is he went by land as a flank guard for the boat, I presume. (Why was
                    coal wanted at that time when wood was so plenty?) "In the evening we marched hard; crosst four creeks." These
                    are good-sized branches. "We came up with our spies at a large creek. We crosst the Purchase line." This would
                    be correct. The "Purchase" or Indian boundary, or "Ten O'clock" line, as it was called by the settlers, is a
                    half-mile south of Big Raccoon creek
                     where Harrison crossed it. He says: "We traveled 30 miles N. N. West." If
                    he meant after leaving camp Saturday morning he traveled only seventeen miles. "Sunday, 6th. We moved early
                    one mile to the river at coal bank." I can't locate this bank at all. I was born about two miles north of
                        Raccoon creek, where he camped with his
                    spies, and have surveyed in every section for miles about this coal bank. "The coal bank is on the east side
                    of Wabash." There are coal out-crops on the west
                    side that are now being worked. "We went through a small prairie, crosst the river to the west side." The
                    prairie is correct. Tradition says that Harrison's army crossed to west side at a ford about a mile and a half
                    above 
                        Montezuma
                    . A cat can wade it now in a long dry time. Local tradition also says that the army crossed
                        Raccoon creek and camped on the high ground
                    on north side. 
                        Armiesburg
                    , a village, and for a short time the county seat, was laid out about a half a mile from the camp,
                    and so named in honor of the camp. They could not have crossed on the range line between 8 and 9, where the
                    road now crosses by a bridge, for the south side was almost a precipice forty feet high. The army moved up a
                    dry ravine which made an easy grade from the creek northward, and camped at its head. There are six graves on
                    the west slope of this ravine, near the summit, which can yet be distinguished, said to be those of men from
                    Harrison's army. I have seen them. After crossing to the west side of the river above 
                        Montezuma
                     his account is bewildering. I can't locate any of the objects he refers to. Then on Monday, the
                    7th of October we find him back with the main body south of Raccoon creek, in 
                        Parke county
                    . But on Sunday, the 6th, he crossed Little Vermilion creek, then took a south course. He says the
                    hills were on his right, which would be true if he stayed west of the Wabash and went south. Says the hills and river came close together, which
                    would also be true on the west side. After crossing Little Vermilion and taking a south course (Sunday, the
                    6th), he "came to a small creek." This must have been the same Little Vermilion, and he was lost or
                    bewildered. After going through some prairie and some fine timber the river and hills came together, as before
                    stated, which would be true, but the coal bank fourteen miles below the Vermilion is wrong by ten miles as to distance on the  west side. He says, "We crosst the Wabash half a mile above the mouth of the Vermillion river." This throws everything into a tangle. Some of that whisky which was so
                    often issued to the men affected his geography. If he crossed the Wabash a half-mile above the mouth of Vermilion, the little creek he crossed and let their horses graze, would
                    correspond to Wabash Mill creek; but then the hills would be on his left. In three and a half miles on the
                    east side he would come to Sugar creek, a
                    larger stream than Big Raccoon, of which he
                    makes no mention, and the hills and river do not come together on the east side till 
                        Montezuma
                     is reached, and then only the second-bottom hill about thirty-five feet above low water. On
                    Monday, the 7th of October, "We mooved earley three miles and crossed Big Raccoon creek to the Purchase line." If he came south on the east
                    side of the Wabash from north of Vermilion, this would place his camp for Sunday night
                    on the south side of and near Sugar creek; but
                    he would surely have mentioned Sugar creek if
                    he had seen and crossed it. "Thence 15 miles to the garrison," he continues. If he meant Fort Harrison, it is
                    near twenty miles, but he did not measure distances, and as a guess that was not bad.
                 Tipton was in a strange country, with other duties to perform, and had to depend often on others for the names
                    of localities. There must have been a considerable sprinkling of settlers scattered along their route, as
                    these streams all had names before the army went there. On the west bank of the Wabash, about a mile above the mouth of Sugar creek, a bushel or so of bullets have been found, nearly all of
                    them battered, and new finds are occurring all the time. I found one three years ago, while surveying for a
                    levee. Tradition says Harrison had a battle there when on his way to Tippecanoe, but John Collett, ex-State geologist, who was born a few miles
                    above, said there was no record of such a battle. [An event of this kind would certainly have been mentioned
                    by Tipton.-–Editor.]
                I was Professor Collett's chief assistant in 1879, and recall that in the report of the Bureau of Statistics
                    and Geology of that year historic evidence was adduced to the effect that Harrison's 
                        Kentucky
                     soldiers took the seed of the now famous 
                        Kentucky
                     blue-grass from a point three miles north of 
                        Clinton
                     on  the east bank of the Wabash river, called in boating times "Blue Grass Landing." Tom Dowling, a
                    citizen of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and Henry Clay once had considerable correspondence as to the origin of the 
                        Kentucky
                     blue-grass, and they agreed that it was found by Harrison's men when they rode out to the river
                    as that point to watch for the pirogues to come up the river with the corn for the horses. The horses ate the
                    grass while waiting, and when the corn arrived they would not eat it. On their way back home the men stopped
                    at that place and gathered what seed they could from the stems still standing. Tipton makes no mention of this
                    matter at all.
                EDITORIAL NOTE.–-It seems to us that Tipton's movements from Friday,
                    October 4, to Sunday, October 6, can be traced from the Journal more easily than Captain Campbell's comments
                    indicate. From the text it seems tolerably clear that, leaving the main body at work in the erection of Fort
                    Harrison, he went with the guard for the coal boat, which marched up the east side of the Wabash to a point one-half mile below the mouth of
                        Vermilion river, where they found the coal
                    bank. After the loading of the boat they went one mile further up (probably because of better fording there),
                    and crossed to the west side of the Wabash.
                    Returning southward they crossed the Vermilion,
                    and stopped to graze their horses at a small stream which might have been the one emptying into the Wabash some two miles south of the Vermilion. They continued to travel on the west side
                    of the river, but crossed to the east side before coming to Raccoon creek, or, as Tipton indicates later, at the ford where the
                    army crossed to the west side on the 31st; thence on to Fort Harrison, where they arrived Monday, the 7th.
                    That his estimation of distances is sometimes widely in error is proven when he gives the miles between
                    specified points-–for example, from the mouth of the Vermilion to Raccoon creek and
                    the "Purchase line." Captain Campbell seems to have confused Tipton's crossing of the Wabash on this trip with the crossing of the army "above
                            Montezuma," some three weeks later. In this return trip southward of the boat
                    guard, nothing is said about crossing the "little" Vermilion. There are, undoubtedly, some confusions in Tipton's narrative, but a close analysis
                    shows it, we believe, to be a coherent and accurate document.
            
            
            
                BENJAMIN PARKE.
                [The following letter descriptive of Judge Benjamin Parke, was published by Alva O. Reser in The 
                            Lafayette
                         Sunday Times, June 17, 1906. It was written to Prof. John L. Campbell, of Wabash
                    College, some years ago, and is first published by Mr. Reser. Judge Parke, one of the most notable of the
                    early founders of the State, was a soldier in the battle of Tippecanoe, was the first 
                        United States
                     Judge from the district of Indiana, a jurist and a legislator. In legislation promoting schools
                    and libraries he rendered especial service. 
                        Parke county
                     was named for him.–-Editor.]
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                            
                                                Salem
                                            , April 16, 1900.
                                    Prof. John L. Campbell, 
                                
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Ind.
                                My Dear Friend:--
                                After so long I have obtained the inclosed information from C. C. Mennaugh and William N.
                                    Trueblood, with the little I remember of that noble, learned and distinguished good 
                                        Salem
                                     citizen, Judge Parke, a personal friend of my father. He often told me of the
                                    admiration he had for the man with such wonderful knowledge that his opinion was often
                                    solicited on most any subject, and when given was considered final, and no appeal was
                                    necessary. He was kind, genial and of a benevolent disposition. He never wronged any one in a
                                    business transaction. He unfortunately became financially embarrassed and unhesitatingly
                                    surrendered all his property for the benefit of his creditors. So completely did he deny
                                    himself that his family at their meals drank from tin-cups. His wife, Elizabeth Barton Parke
                                    (Betsy, as she was called), was held in such high esteem in that community that I will venture
                                    to say more baby daughters were named for her than any other lady in southern Indiana at that
                                    early day.
                                Buggies or any vehicle aside from old road (I might say woods) wagons, were not known when
                                    going to hold court at different places. I clearly remember when Barton, his son, a very
                                    promising young man and of remarkable fine appearance, died of cholera on Sunday, the 30th of
                                    June, 1833. He was my Sabbath school teacher. He was beloved by all who knew him.
                                A daughter, older than Barton (Sarah) married Wm. Hite, a wealthy merchant of 
                                        Louisville
                                    . They had no children, but adopted Francis Adams, an exceedingly bright boy.
                                R. MORRIS.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE LAST OF THE MIAMIS.
                
                    From The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, January 7, 1900.
                
                Some five miles east of 
                        Peru
                    , within rifle-shot of the Wabash,
                    stands the home of Gabriel Godfroy, the most notable and interesting Indian in Indiana to-day. Godfroy, though
                    not a full Indian as to blood, is fully an Indian in character, and is of genuine Miami lineage, his father,
                    Francis Godfroy, being the last war-chief of that once powerful tribe, that not only made their home in the
                        Wabash valley, but claimed sovereignty over all
                    of Indiana.
                Gabriel Godfroy, picturesque in appearance, is a powerfully built man, in his sixties, with a massive, strong
                    face, made leonine by a heavy growth of yellowish-white hair which falls to the shoulders or is worn in a knot
                    behind. His nature is utterly transparent, and one who converses with him and takes note shrewdly may get a
                    key to the Indian question and guess why the fates have dealt hardly with him and his people in their
                    intercourse with the whites. After his more than threescore years spent cheek by jowl with the invaders of his
                    heritage, the modification is but superficial; their ways are not his ways, and his conformity to them is, at
                    best, but awkward and unnatural. For example, the Indian's natural domicile is a wigwam, or something akin,
                    and Godfroy and his family are strikingly out of place in the great, barren, many-roomed house where they find
                    shelter. The rules of living, the orderly arrangement, the convenience and ornamentation which make a house a
                    home in any sense of the word, are here missing entirely. The place is simply a refuge from outdoors, when
                    outdoors proves unpleasant.
                Again, the Indian's natural activity is to tread the wild places with moccasined foot, the preying instinct hot
                    in his blood; and the spectacle of him in cowhide brogans caring in his slipshod way for plow, horses and
                    cattle is so palpably forced and incongruous as to be grotesque. We read encouraging reports here and there of
                    the civilized Indian taking to husbandry, and Godfroy himself has been cited as a thrifty, prosperous citizen.
                    The statements are not purposely false, but they are a decided perversion 
                    of the real fact. Thrift, providence, anything like industrial application and business sagacity is utterly
                    foreign to the Indian's character, and the fact that he may be seemingly well-to-do at any given time
                    signifies little. A better illustration of this could not be found than the case of Godfroy. When, more than a
                    half-century ago, the Miamis sold to the 
                        United States
                     government the last great tract of land which they held as a tribe, there were reserved to
                    Francis Godfroy many hundreds of acres of the finest Wabash bottom. To part of this domain the son Gabriel succeeded, and at one time owned more
                    than 300 acres of that rich tongue of land formed by the confluence of the Wabash and the Mississinewa . Here he lived in the open-handed style of a manorial lord, his house the
                    stopping place of all his fellow-Indians, who looked to him as their friend and superior, and for whose debts
                    he was surety. All that is over now. Godfroy has left of his father's ample reserves but forty-eight acres,
                    part of them hilly and sterile. As one inquires further among the Indians of this locality he finds the same
                    story repeated, and there is revealed the pathetic spectacle of these one-time lords of the soil now in a
                    class with our poorest, least successful white farmers, floundering along in a helpless, inefficient sort of
                    way, and pushed to the wall by the conditions of civilized life. One of the most notable cases is that of
                    William Peconga, whose former home stood on the Me-shin-go-me-sia reserve, in the southern part of 
                        Wabash county
                    . Peconga is the grandson of old Chief Me-shin-go-me-sia, to whom and his band was reserved ten
                    sections or ten square miles of land. In an evil hour they had this common property divided and apportioned
                    among the several members of the band. Few of them now have anything left, and Peconga, the chief heir,
                    recently left his last strip of land, and is living with a friend.
                The explanation is two-fold. In the first place the Indian, along with his lack of foresight, has but little
                    sense of values; what he wants he will have at any cost, if it lies within his means, and he will give his
                    promise to pay or a mortage with very little thought as to result. Hence, assailed by a multiplicity of wants
                    that he never knew in his savage condition, and without the check of prudence, his possessions must, in the
                    nature of things, slip away from him.
                
                Again, the Indian is utterly unqualified to take care of himself in the midst of our civilization, with its
                    unscrupulous measuring of wits. There is no gainsaying that a very dominant trait with the white man is
                    avarice; there is very little mercy for the unsophisticated, and this avarice preying off the Indian makes an
                    ancient tale of wrong, the half of which has never been told. From the early days of the traders they have
                    paid exorbitantly for every commodity they bought, and have been encouraged to revel in credit wherever their
                    lands or annuities would secure their debts. To the present day the whites sustain this attitude toward them,
                    and sharks operating from the shady side of the law have left them all but penniless. Litigation of one sort
                    or another has been pending for years in the courts at 
                        Marion
                    , and one does not have to inquire far to hear of lawyers who have grown richer as the Indians
                    have grown poorer. Among the latter exists the feeling generally that they have been over-reached in every
                    way; that they have no chance against the white man. Even history, they say, is but the white man's perversion
                    of truth, and the legends preserved among them, as I got them from Godfroy, breathe bitterly of wrongs done
                    them in the early wars–wrongs that have never been chronicled.
                Along the beautiful Mississinewa, from its
                    union with the Wabash to the Mississinewa battle-ground, linger the sorry
                    remnants of a tribe that once ranked among the noblest of the North American savages. As one makes his way up
                    this romantic stream, so long beloved of the red men, he finds them here and there, often with a skin more or
                    less Caucasian, but always with the unmistakable, fine, dark Indian eye, which has in it something of the
                    eagle. One notable thing is the persistence of the Indian instincts, despite this liberal admixture of white
                    man's blood. Gabriel Godfroy's boys are as aboriginal in their proclivities as the Miami striplings of a
                    century ago. They are skilled in the use of the bow, and, perched in some tree-top overhanging the river, kill
                    many a fish with their deadly arrows. The mellifluous Miami language is not allowed to die out, nor the Indian
                    custom of naming children for some natural object or quality, and not the least interesting of my recollection
                    of my  visit to Godfroy's is that of him and sundry of his youngsters going
                    through their weird, curious dances for my delectation.
                One with the disposition, time and patience might make an interesting study in this region of the Indian as he
                    is after long contact with the civilized life, and pick up much lore cherished by them which reveals the
                    nature of these people. No stream in our State is pleasanter to loiter along than this one where such student
                    would go to seek his material. No stream more stimulates the imagination with romantic associations, for it
                    was a favorite abiding place with the Miami, and up and down its beautiful, winding, narrow valley stood his
                    picturesque wigwam. Here slumbers forgotten the dust of many a chief and warrior once famous among his people.
                    Here lived and now rests Frances Slocum, who, stolen from her 
                        Pennsylvania
                     home when a child, spent a long life among her captors, so content with their customs that, when
                    discovered and identified in her old age by her own people, she could not be prevailed upon to go to them.
                Here, also, everlooking a beautiful bend and stretch of the river, about a mile from the little town of 
                        Jalapa
                    , Pleasant township, 
                        Grant county
                    , is one of the most famous Indiana battle-grounds in the State, known as the Mississinewa. It is now a stretch of tilled fields,
                    unmarked in any way, and only known vaguely to the surrounding countryside as the spot where some sort of a
                    battle once took place. It merits more explicit celebrity, for here, in the early dawn of December 18, 1812,
                    occurred a fierce and bloody conflict, akin to that of Tippecanoe, between about six hundred whites under Lieutenant-Colonel John B. Campbell, and
                    an uncertain number of Miami and Munsee Indians. About all the records that exist of the fight are based on
                    Colonel Campbell's official report, which gives the victory to the whites, but the Miami tradition, as told by
                    Godfroy, varies from the received account, and glows with indignation at the violence previously committed on
                    a Munsee village, which led the Miamis to side with the Munsees and make the early morning attack.
                NOTE.–-Godfroy still lives at his old home but is, we are told, no longer a land-owner. For
                    an interesting tradition related by him see Vol. I, No. 1, p. 19, of this magazine.-–Editor.
                
                G. S. C.
            
            
            
                NEWSPAPER INDEX.
                INDIANA JOURNAL-–THIRD INSTALMENT.
                
                    1834–-
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             legislature.–-Jan. 8.
                        David Crockett (letter).–-Jan. 25.
                        Railroad, 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Lawrenceburgh
                            , movement toward.
                        -–Feb. 22.
                        Allisonville, sale of lots (ad.)-–Feb. 22.
                        Barber, first negro (ad.)-–Feb. 22.
                        Public land sales.-–March 15.
                        New Bethel, sale of lots.-–March 15.
                        
                            
                                Germantown
                            , on Fall creek.-–March 15.
                        Railroad meeting.–-March 29.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Library (ad.)--April 5.
                        Julia A. Dumont (story).-–April 5, May 24.
                        Gambling, meeting to suppress.-–June 1.
                        Railroad, 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Lafayette
                             .-–June 14.
                        Canal Improvement.-–June 14.
                        Ginseng (ad.)-–June 28.
                        Noah Noble, circular to the public.–-July 19.
                        Railroad celebration at 
                                Shelbyville
                            .–-July 19.
                        Whitewater canal proposed.-–Aug. 16.
                        State House, progress of.-–Oct. 3.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , growth of.-–Oct. 10.
                        Canals, etc. (communication).-–Sept. 12.
                        Mails, complaints of.–-Dec. 5. 
                        Railroads.–-Dec. 30.
                    
                
                
                    1835– 
                        Ten-mile strip adjoining 
                                Michigan
                             .–-Jan. 13.
                        "Track roads."–-Jan. 13.
                        Whitewater survey (two communications).–-Jan. 16.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Athenaaum.–-Feb. 3.
                        Davy Crockett and the presidency.-–Feb. 20.
                        Town library.-–April 24.
                        Railroad surveys.–May 15.
                        
                            
                                Salem
                             seminary.-–May 15.
                        
                        Athenaeum.–-April 24, May 22.
                        Internal improvement.–-June 12.
                        Harrison, invitation to.–-June 19.
                        Agricultural Society, 
                                Marion County
                            , formed.–-July 3.
                        Railroad at 
                                Shelbyville
                            .-–July 17.
                        Irish canal fights.-–July 31.
                        Canal celebration.-–July 31.
                        Gambling, to check.–-Aug. 16.
                        Canals and railroads.–-Aug. 14.
                        Railroad surveys.-–Aug. 21.
                        County fair, first (ad., and ed.)-–Sept. 11.
                        About Indiana.–-Sept. 25.
                        County fair.–-Oct. 9 and 16.
                        Internal improvement.–-Oct. 16.
                        Railroad survey.-–Oct. 16.
                        Internal improvements.–-Oct. 23.
                        
                            Tippecanoe battle, celebration of.–-Nov. 3 and
                            Dec. 8.
                        Internal improvement.–-Nov. 27.
                    
                
                
                    1836–-
                        Canals, central and others.-–Jan. 8.
                        Internal improvement bill; passage of.-–Jan. 19.
                        Colonization society (long address).-–Feb. 27.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , law incorporating.-–March 19.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , peace and safety meeting.-–March 26.
                        "Battle of Tippecanoe," poem by Wm.
                            Wallace.-–March 26.
                        Tipton, John, speech on Cumberland road bill.–-April 23.
                        Temperance society.-–April 30.
                        Alexandria, William Conner a proprietor of (ad. of sale).–-May 14.
                        Internal improvement bill, great celebration at 
                                Evansville
                             .-–May 21.
                        Davy Crockett, sketch of.–-May 28.
                        Cumberland road.-–May 28.
                        Ratliff Boone.–-June 4.
                        Railroad meeting at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .–-June 18.
                        Internal improvement.-–June 25.
                        Agricultural society.–-July 9.
                        Public works (canals) ad. for.–-July 16.
                        Horse racing, an ordinance against in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .-–July 16.
                        
                        Internal improvement, series of papers beginning.–-July 23.
                        Sales of lots in various towns (ads.)–-Aug. 27.
                        
                            
                                Yorktown
                             and old Indian town (ad.)–-Sept. 3.
                        Port Royal.–-Sept 10.
                        Cumberland road, address from an 
                                Indianapolis
                             committee.–-Sept. 17.
                        Internal improvement, discussion of.–-Sept. 24.
                        Davy Crockett, journal of.–-Oct. 8.
                        J. B. Dillon, letter from.–-Oct. 8.
                        Agricultural fair, addresses before by Calvin Fletcher.-– Oct. 22.
                        Specimen of invective: an open letter "to the Lying Hireling Scoundrels who do the dirty work as
                            Editors of the Democrat."–-Nov. 3.
                    
                
                
                    1837–-
                        Colonization society.–-Feb. 11.
                        Anti-internal improvement convention.–-April 22.
                        Internal improvement (discussion).–-May 6 and May 13.
                        Editorial convention.-–June 3.
                        Lorenzo Dow (story of).–-July 1.
                        Internal improvement fund.–-July 1.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , bad streets of.–-July 1.
                        Asbury University, cornerstone of.-–July 1.
                        Story of traveller who planned to make stops at towns on his map, and his quandaries. A stick of
                            hewn timber and a blazed tree constituted "
                                Vienna
                            ."–-July 1.
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             library (ad. to return books).–-July 1.
                        Ginseng.–-July 1.
                        Cooking stoves (ad.)-–July 1.
                        Internal improvement funds.–-July 8.
                        Lands ceded by Indians.–-July 8.
                        Irish riot on 
                                Madison
                             railroad (1700 laborers).-–Sept. 9.
                        Cumberland Road.–-Sept. 9.
                        James B. Ray (letter).-–Sept. 30.
                        
                            
                                Mt. Pleasant
                            , 
                                Marion county
                             (lot sale).–-Oct. 14.
                        Premiums awarded at county fair.–-Oct. 28.
                    
                
            
            
            
                EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
                THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY AND ITS WORK.
                The Indiana Historical Society is not a widely advertised institution. Many know in a vague way that such a
                    society exists; the majority of these think of it as in a condition of sere and yellow desuetude; a few know
                    what it really is doing and has done.
                This society has the prestige that comes with age. It has existed now for more than seventy-five years, and in
                    the course of that time there have been identified with it, particularly in its earlier years, a goodly
                    proportion of the men whose names are honored in the history of the State.*
                
                Organized for the purpose of disseminating historical information as well as for the preservation of historical
                    material, it has, from time to time, had read before it original papers of distinct historical value. Of late
                    years this custom has practically been discontinued and the society's work has been chiefly confined to its
                    publications. Up to date it has issued three volumes of these publications which in character and value
                    compare favorably with those of the leading societies in the same field. The selecting, the editing, and the
                    papers contributed show at once the supervision of experts and thoroughgoing work at the hands of not a few
                    writers in the State who, turning aside for a moment from their professional vocations, have demonstrated
                    their capability in this line. To be represented for future time in these collections is a distinction that
                    might be gratifying to any one. The great handicap to this work is the lack of funds. By way of permanent
                    endowment it has the interest from $3,000, 
                        
                            * For example, the officers in 1842 were: President, Samuel Merrill;
                            Vice-Presidents, Jeremiah Sullivan, Charles Dewey and Isaac Blackford; Corresponding Secretary, John
                            Law; Recording Secretary, William Sheets; Treasurer, Charles W. Cady; Executive Committee, Henry P.
                            Cotaurn, James M. Ray, Henry Ward Beecher, Geo. H. Dunn and Douglass Maguire. A more notable list
                            representing the various parts of the State could hardly have been selected.
                    
                     $2,500 of which, to be so used, was donated by the late William H.
                    English; but there is at present little return from membership fees. From time to time modest appeals have
                    been made to the legislature for aid in a work which a few individuals are carrying on gratuitously for the
                    good of the State, but so far, apparently, the Indiana legislature has never been able to see that the history
                    of the State has any value, or that a historical society is worthy of any notice.
                Thus much for the actual accomplishments of the society. On the other hand, in the course of its three-score
                    and sixteen years there have been long lapses, sometimes extending over years, during which it seemed to have
                    ceased utterly. The semiannual public meetings and the presentations of papers originally contemplated in the
                    constitution has dwindled down to one brief business meeting each year which few hear of and fewer attend.
                Now, there is a decided sentiment with at least a few that the State Historical Society ought to be doing
                    something in addition to publishing two or three pamphlets a year, and its possibilities are becoming more and
                    more apparent. In various directions it can be seen that the historic interest in Indiana is surely though
                    slowly growing. The old settlers' meeting (though this is, perhaps, the crudest and least reliable
                    manifestation of this interest) has become a fixture throughout the State; the several patriotic societies,
                    such as the D. A. R., the D. R., and others of similar character, based as they are upon the past, are turning
                    attention that way; in the history departments of our colleges a local interest is being evinced, and in the
                    matter of local societies there seems to be a growing activity, which within the last year or so has issued in
                    the formation of several new organizations. What is needed is that these various movements shall work
                    together, borrowing stimulus from each other. The local history societies in particular work in such a narrow
                    field and are so unrelated to the larger movement that they are, very often, of a sporadical nature, and of
                    those that are organized only a small proportion continue to thrive. A larger relation–-an atmosphere that
                    shall feed them is possible, and the State society, by virtue of its standing as a State organization, is in a
                    position to take the initiative and create between itself and the  minor
                    organizations ties that shall bind all together on a common working basis. Just how this might be done would
                    be a matter for careful consideration, but some hints may be borrowed from what is being done elsewhere,
                    particularly in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Working from these hints we venture here to present a tentative plan, the intent of which is to
                    stimulate thought in this direction and to call forth an expression of views from others. We would be pleased
                    to have representatives of some of the local societies form a symposium on this subject.
                
                     Local Societies. A correspondence with the secretary of each local historical society inviting to
                        auxiliary membership. Conditions of membership, an annual fee of one dollar with privilege of one voting
                        delegate at meetings; an annual report from the local secretary setting forth the work of his society for
                        the past year, and transmitting of copies of all programs and other printed matter, the same to be filed
                        away by the State society. In return, the State society to publish an annual bulletin exhibiting the
                        various reports; to transmit copies of these bulletins to local societies, and also copies of all its
                        future publications, including its historical pamphlets.
                     Patriotic Societies. An invitation to the various patriotic societies throughout the State to exchange
                        publications with the State Historical Society, and extending to said societies the courtesy of honorary
                        membership.
                     Libraries. Circular letters to all the public libraries in the State requesting brief account of what
                        has been done by them (if anything) toward promoting the interest in local history, and setting forth the
                        importance of collecting and preserving all local pamphlets and of indexing the current history in local
                        newspaper files.
                     Membership. A circular letter advertising the society and its objects, and inviting into its membership
                        individuals whose interest in these objects is known.
                
                It should be repeated that these suggestions are thrown out simply in lieu of better. The argument we wish to
                    make is that there is a field of possibilities at present unworked, and which is proper to the State society.
                    With a desire on its part to enter upon it, practical and effective ways and means would not be difficult to
                    devise.
                
                A LINCOLN MEMORIAL TABLET.
                The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club some months since stimulated a local history interest among the more advanced
                    pupils of the public schools by inviting essays on this subject, "What historic spot in 
                        Indianapolis
                     should be commemorated with a tablet, and why?" Something over 200 essays were submitted, and
                    perhaps a half-dozen places were discussed as eligible to the honor in question, but by far the greatest
                    number were for the spot made memorable by a brief speech of Abraham Lincoln's in February of 1861, when on
                    his way to 
                        Washington
                     to be inaugurated as President. This speech was made from the balcony of the old Bates House, on
                    the site now occupied by the Claypool Hotel. In deference to this preference as thus expressed by the young
                    people, the Commercial Club determined to mark this place, and that the pupils of the schools might be still
                    further identified with the movement, competitive designs for a bronze tablet were asked for from students in
                    the art departments of the two high schools of the city. Nineteen designs were submitted, and from among these
                    a Commercial Club committee, aided by an advisory committee of artists, selected one executed by Miss Marie H.
                    Stewart, of Irvington. This design, made into a handsome bronze by Rudolph Schwarz, a sculptor of the city,
                    was set in the wall of the Claypool Hotel on Washington street beneath the place where the speech was made.* The tablet, six feet long by three wide, presents a profile head of Lincoln, the space
                    on the left side being occupied by a log cabin and that on the right by the nation's capitol, symbolic of the
                    two extremes of his life. Underneath is inscribed in bold gothic lettering:
                "Here, February 11, 1861, Abraham Lincoln, on his way to 
                        Washington
                     to assume the Presidency, in an address said: ‘I appeal to you to constantly bear in mind that
                    not with politicians, not with Presidents, not with office-seekers, but with you is the question: Shall the
                    Union and shall the liberties of this country be preserved to the latest generations?'"
                On Lincoln's birthday, just forty-six years and one day after 
                        * There is a difference of opinion as to which balcony of the Bates House
                            Lincoln spoke from, some contending that it was one on the Illinois street side.
                     the speech was made, the tablet was unveiled with appropriate
                    ceremonies and in the presence of a large crowd, the leading-feature of the occasion being an address by
                    Governor Hanly. The event was futher signalized by a public meeting at Tomlinson Hall in the evening.
                HISTORIC SPOTS IN INDIANAPOLIS.
                The sentiment in favor of marking historic spots is growing in our midst, and in view of possible future
                    accomplishment in this direction in 
                        Indianapolis
                     we would suggest that there is within the city at least two points invested with an historic
                    interest far more essentially related to 
                        Indianapolis
                     than the fortuitous Lincoln speech. One of these is the spot on South street, between Delaware
                    and Pennsylvania, where stood the old Madison & 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad depot. The arrival here of the first railway train marks the beginning of a new era in
                    the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was the introduction into the history of the town of a factor which preeminently determined
                    its future and which has made it a metropolis. To commemorate this beginning of the city's greatness is to
                    recognize the significance and bearing of an historical event.
                The other spot is the piece of vacant ground overlooking White
                        river between the Washington street bridge and the site of the old bridge. Here stood the cabin
                    of John McCormick, the real founder of the settlement that became the capital of the State, and around this
                    spot 
                        Indianapolis
                     had its beginnings. There is indeed a dispute as to whether John McCormick or George Pogue were
                    the first actual settlers here, but there is no dispute as to the relations of the two to the settlement.
                    Pogue, who squatted a mile or so farther east, was isolated and detached; nobody followed him, and he was not
                    an influence in the further peopling of the locality. McCormick, on the other hand, was followed by his
                    brothers, James and Samuel, and with these, or close after them, came those who made the nucleus of a town,
                    which was one of the factors that determined the selection of the site for the capital. Further historic
                    interest attaches to this neighborhood. The first comers to the spot were led hither by Indian trails, a
                    half-dozen of which converged at the mouth  of Fall creek, by reason of a sandbar across the river there. There is a story to
                    the effect that on one occasion Zachary Taylor, on his way to the Wabash with some three hundred troops, came by way of this ford; that, by
                    coincidence, he found there a large force of Delaware Indians camped at the place and in conference with the
                    famous Tecumseh; that that night Taylor encamped across the creek from the Indians, and that the latter,
                    stirred to passion by a speech of Tecumseh's, threatened trouble that was only averted by the influence of
                    William Conner, a trader among the Delawares, and by Anderson, their principal chief.
                In brief, the piece of ground referred to, which is now little more than a waste, might appropriately be
                    converted into a little park and marked by the erection on the site of the McCormick home a duplicate of that
                    first cabin, typical of the early Hoosier homes.
                REVOLUTIONARY GRAVES.
                The following statements as to Revolutionary graves in the State are sent us by Mrs. Elinor Campbell, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .
                Jacob Mikesell, from 
                        Kentucky
                    , lies in a private burial ground near 
                        Bethlehem
                    , 
                        Clark county
                     . Some place between 
                        New Washington
                     and 
                        Bethlehem
                     is buried John Brinton, whose name appears in the list of Revolutionary pensioners published in
                    1835, and in a list of coffins made by Robert Tilford at 
                        New Washington
                    , March 22, 1847, is one for "Old John Brinton, a pensioner. " In cemetery at 
                        Rising Sun
                    , 
                        Ohio county
                    , are (1) John Elliott (grave unmarked save by a small stone on which is inscribed "A Soldier of
                    1776," set up by the sexton, Mr. George Dugle), and (2) Noah Miller (grave marked by a slab mounted on four
                    pillars). At 
                        Aberdeen
                    , 
                        Ohio county
                    , is buried Robert Turner, of 
                        Lycoming county
                    , 
                        Pa.
                    , grandfather of Robert Easton, of 
                        Rising Sun
                    . In 
                        New Washington
                    , 
                        Clark county
                    , is the grave of Alden Smith, a Revolutionary soldier from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who, after the war, emigrated to western 
                        New York
                    , and afterward came to Indiana. Near 
                        New Washington
                    , in a country graveyard, is Thomas Arbuckle. He was from 
                        Rockbridge county
                    , Va.
                    Emigrated to 
                        Kentucky
                    , and later to Indiana.
                According to an old book called "Barber's History of All the
                
                States and Territories," the following inscription is from a monument in "the graveyard at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ."
                "Sacred to the memory of Alexander Ewing, one of the bravest soldiers of the Revolution. From the year 1780 to
                    the peace of 1783 he was actively engaged in the ranger service on the frontiers of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He was a volunteer at the battle of the Thames in 1813, and among the first who broke the
                    British lines on that occasion, so glorious to the arms of his country. Died at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , January 1, 1827, aged 60 years."
                From Captain L. C. Baird, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind., we are in receipt of a list of the burial places of veterans of our several wars. This
                    list contains in all 211 names, classed as follows: Revolutionary War, 2; War of 1812, 1; Mexican War, 4; War
                    of the Rebellion, 182; Spanish War, 3. Nineteen buried in one cemetery are classed as both Mexican and Civil
                    War soldiers. Four cemeteries are specified–-"Mulberry Street," "Walnut Ridge," "Eastern," and "Roman
                    Catholic," all of which, we infer, are located in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .
                LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
                
                    A Campbell Family Tradition.–-In the 
                        
                            Rockville
                         Tribune for December 26, 1906, Captain John T. Campbell relates at length a story,
                    traditional in his family, of the capture by Indians, in 1812, of two boys, John Campbell and Vinson Edwards
                    (the former an uncle of the writer). The capture was made in what is now 
                        Sullivan county
                    , and the boys were taken northward. Neither ever found his way back home. Of Edwards's after life
                    little was ever ascertained, but Campbell, after being traded about from tribe to tribe, became practically an
                    Indian in his tastes, married among them and eventually organized a band of his own and became a chief. His
                    story is one of the romance tales of Indian days, and is, we believe, unrecorded, except in this narrative of
                    Captain Campbell's. Incidentally the writer tells of several matters that are interesting, as, for example,
                    the ruffianisms of a white man, known as "Woolly Neck," which led to the retaliatory stealing of the boys.
                    There is also a description of a fierce tornado that greeted his grandfather and his fellow immigrants just as
                    they arrived at their Indiana home.
                
                
                    "The Battle of 
                            Cass County
                        ."–-This is the caption of a short article by W. S. Wright in the 
                        
                            Logansport
                         Journal, January 27, 1907. In it the writer recalls that in 1791 occurred a fight
                    between the Indians of Eel river and the force
                    under General Wilkinson, in his expedition down the Wabash. This has local interest as being within the bounds of the present 
                        Cass County
                     .
                
                    A Heroine of Civil War Days.–The recent death in 
                        Greencastle
                     of Mrs. David E. Badger recalls an incident which is an echo of Civil War times, the particulars
                    of which are told by a correspondent to the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News in the issue of February 14,1907. The substance of it is that in a riot in 
                        Greencastle
                     precipitated between some Union soldiers there and an overwhelming number of Southern
                    sympathizers, Mrs. Badger, then Miss Lou Walls, fronted the assailing mob with a saber and fairly held it at
                    bay until the tables were turned by the report that Morton's troops were coming. In consequence of her
                    fearless act, says the correspondent,- "Governor Morton soon afterward invited her to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and she spent a week in that city, the guest of the State, for she was taken in charge by the
                    officers of the army under the direction of the Governor, and was the guest of honor of the troops then in the
                    camps near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Among the presents she received in recognition of her bravery, was a silk dress from the
                    Governor and his staff, an engraved revolver from the Forty-third Regiment, another silk dress from friends,
                    and many other things appreciated deeply by her."
                HISTORICAL SOCIETIES–- 
                        TIPPECANOE
                     AND 
                        CASS
                     COUNTIES.
                Since our last issue two local historical societies have been added to the State's list. The first of these, in
                    date, is the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Historical Society, organized last December with a list of about twenty-five active and ten
                    honorary members. Judge Richard P. DeHart is president and Hon. Alva O. Reser secretary. At 
                        Logansport
                     a vigorous society has just been formed with a good membership and, seemingly, an abundance of
                    enthusiasm. Judge D. P. Baldwin is president and W. S. Wright secretary. An original feature of their plans is
                    a division and classification of their proposed lines of work. These divisions, each to be under charge of an
                    appointed head, are as follows:
                1. Sociology, societies, churches, moral and religious matters. 2. Economic and industrial matters,
                    improvements and agriculture,  roads, methods of communication, railroads,
                    telephones, buildings, factories, etc. 3. Political and civic matters, public officials, political parties,
                    methods and progress. 4. Science, meteorology, law and medicine. 5. Art. 6. Biography and necrology. 7.
                    Literature and education, writers of books and editors of papers, with copy of all books and papers published.
                    8. Military, war, etc.
                At the organization a resolution was passed instructing the secretary to request of citizens of 
                        Cass county
                    , through the medium of the press, memoranda of historical data, including descriptions of
                    historical relics, this data to be furnished in writing for the purpose of filing with the records of the
                    society, and requesting, further, that the public library furnish the society with a list of rare books,
                    pamphlets, newspapers, relics, etc., owned by the library, and of books of local and State interest. A
                    committee on membership and enrollment was appointed, to which was added the editors of various papers and the
                    executive committee, who were authorized to accept names of charter members.
                A CENTENNIAL FOR 1916.
                Contemporary with the organization of the 
                        Cass county
                     society was that of a movement looking to a celebration in 1916 of the State's centenary. This
                    idea, which was launched by Mr. W. S. Wright, the secretary of the society, is being pushed vigorously, and in
                    the State Senate a joint resolution has been introduced providing for the appointment by the Governor of a
                    centennial commission to consist of one member from each county, with the Governor, Vice-President Fairbanks
                    and our members of Congress as ex-officio members, these to serve without compensation or expense, and to
                    report to the next legislature. A part of Mr. Wright's plan is to enlist all the historical societies in this
                    movement.
                THE KIND WE LIKE TO GET.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Charlestown
                                        , Ind., Jan. 8, 1907.
                                
                                
                                    Editor the Magazine of History:
                                
                                I send you $1.00 to continue the magazine. Tipton's and Naylor's papers are worth $5.00 to me.
                                    The old Naylor home is in sight of this town, and is where the Judge was brought up, and where
                                    he enlisted in Captain Bigger's company for Tippecanoe. Glorious fellows, weren't they!
                                    Sincerely,
                                JOHN A. H. OWENS.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
